ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6327	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take your seats. I'll open the 19th. Meeting of the National Council. Very, very cordially, I welcome Mr President-in-Office Dr Heinz Fischer in our midst. [[General condolences.]] I also welcome the numerous guests and guests of honour who are present at this meeting today. ==References====External links== Meeting of 31. On 1 March 2009, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Board of Directors. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Lohfeyer, Großruck, Praßl and Dr. Winter. [[09:04:58]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6377	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[09:05:11]] Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6813	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take at first reading the government documents relating to the federal financial laws for the years 2009 and 2010 together with Annexes 111 and 112 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6839	It is proposed that the debate on points 8 and 9 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. [[09:05:51]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6864	According to § 74a Abs. 2 before the entry into the agenda of the Rules of Procedure, put forward a request for urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 587/A(E) tabled at the same time by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on'solidarity rather than class struggle'. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6888	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 122 minutes, FPÖ 108 minutes as well as BZÖ and greens per 95 minutes. I inform you that the budget speech and the debate under TOP 2, School Organisation Act, between 9.05 a.m. and 1 p.m., will be broadcast live by ORF. For the time of television transmission to TOP 2, the following Rules of Procedure were agreed: First of all, one speech per group of 10 minutes each, then one word by the Federal Minister with 12 minutes, then one word per group with 6 minutes each; another one by 10 minutes, another by one word by one group with 4 minutes, then another word by one by four minutes and then one word by one by three minutes. Before the end of the final round, after consultation with the club presidents, the President-in-Office shall distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television period. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television broadcast. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:07:54]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government’s templates concerning the Federal Financial Laws for the years 2009 and 2010 including investments
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6934	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. At this point, I should also like to thank the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate very much, who had a very short period of time available to distribute the materials. It's all been done on time. Thank you very much to the staff of Parliament's Directorate! [[General condolences.]] I now give the floor to the Federal Minister for Finance to give the statement. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6970	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With the presentation of this budget, the moment of truth is now coming. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Mag. Stadler.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you, Minister of Finance!]] It is a budget in times of a global financial and economic crisis, it is a budget in this crisis, and this budget is also a clear fight against the crisis. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, to the population!]] Let's look around the world: triggered by the real estate crisis in America with its lazy loans, the entire world financial system has come to the brink of global infarction. And although we have been fragilely stabilised worldwide, in Austria and in Europe with great effort, within a few months the financial crisis has hit massively into the real economy, destroyed values and still does so. Austria, too, is well known, has not been able to escape this international development due to its intertwined and strongly export-oriented economy. When we remember and consider the situation a year ago, half a year ago and today: Just a year ago, in Austria for 2009, for this year, we expected an economic growth of around 2 percent. Even in October of last year, after the new elections and after the negotiations for the formation of a new federal government, the economic researchers for Austria have only forecast a positive economic growth for this year of about 1 percent and an unemployment of 4 percent. Today, just a few months later – four months later – the same researchers for 2009 predict a negative growth of over 2% and an unemployment of 5 percent. [[Abg. Strache: But this is not the case with the researchers!]] So that we also know what we are talking about in this difference of 3 per cent forecasts, this deterioration of growth forecasts by 3 per cent: This means a minus from the economic development of €8 billion – and that within a few weeks! And because the economy is such that in days of crisis and budget planning, one also looks back: In old currency, it is 110 billion schilling away due to the changed economic development. These are today's forecasts. But if we're honest, we have to say, Even today, no one can estimate how reliable these forecasts are and how the world will really look in half a year. But one thing is fixed, and that also gives courage for the future: The international community has demonstrated its ability to act – not yet possible – and the European Union has proven itself to be a safe port, and the euro as a stable anchor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria has also demonstrated at this time how a government can help quickly, forcefully and precisely: With the bank package, we secure the deposits of the savers, maintain the credit market and stabilise our money economy as a whole. With the economic packages of €3 billion, we give strong and also noticeable impetus to our domestic economy, we fight recession and unemployment. And with the tax reform, which will also be felt in the accounts of taxpayers in these days, we strengthen purchasing power and consumption of €3.2 billion – of which half a billion euros for families with children. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Finally, with the first introduction of the deductibility of donations, where people take responsibility for people, we set an unmistakable sign of solidarity, social responsibility and cohesion. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Donations to...organisations are not deductible!]] And you can also see: The last few weeks and months have not been influenced by the inactionlessness of politics, rather by the inadequacies of some economists. The sense of the necessity, feeling for the potential and the responsibility for the whole – these are the principles that should determine not only the planning of the budget, but also, in my view, all the differences in party policy, the discussion of this budget. And these are anything but ordinary times, ladies and gentlemen. Since these are no ordinary times, this budget can not only be the usual framework of government planning and administration, but above all it must fulfil a claim: to form the foundation of our future, to be the basis and starting point of our permanent economic recovery. Among the truths that one will have to express in such hours is also the finding: In times like this, no budget will be able to solve any problem. In very difficult negotiations – we have discussed this today also with the Council of Ministers – we have therefore had to make tough decisions and put together clear priorities, political priorities: in the fight against unemployment, in internal and external security, in education for our children, in science and research. [[Abg. Yeah, yeah!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The protection of jobs and thus the fight against unemployment must be the absolute priority and therefore a priority of the budget in these difficult times. With the extension of short work, we have expanded the possibility of keeping people in employment at all. For me, it is also an expression of entrepreneurial responsibility when managers of industrial management companies fight to keep jobs, and use short work to do so, and we also support them accordingly. But another truth must be clearly put on the table in such a speech and such a perspective: Whatever we do, unemployment will rise significantly. – And this budget gives an answer. We won't leave anyone in the rain. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We will work together with the Minister of Social Affairs to ensure that over €5.5 billion is available for labour market policy over the next two years. In both internal and external security, we ensure stability and reliability: €5.6 billion in 2009 and €5.7 billion in 2010 are a guarantee that we mean it seriously. With this budget, we are facing the present and are looking forward to the future: In education – I have agreed with the Minister of Education – we will increase the budget by almost € 1 billion over the next five years. This year alone there will be an increase of €378 million; over the next five years there will be €1,000 per student. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There will be more money for science and research. Compared to the past five years, we have increased spending on this key area by more than 40% by 2013 – a plus of more than €400 million in science and research alone over the next two years. We invest, and this is what you see in the figures, clearly in education, science and research, because we want to particularly support the spiritual and creative potential of our country, because it is the indispensable fuel for the economy and is driving it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is my goal and it must be our common goal – on the government bank, but also here in the House, in Parliament – to quickly lead Austria out of the crisis and into the next upturn. And, High House, if we want to answer this question and look into the future, we also have to look back and ask ourselves: Where did the current crisis come about? Where does she come from? What do we need to learn from it for the future? A truth of our economy, our economy must be put at the beginning here: The seed for each crisis is sown in the upswing. And this seed is usually sown by two groups of people: first of those who want to agree that there are profits without risk; and second of those who want to make us know that there are state interventions for which no one has to pay the bill at the end of the day. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever ignores risks, but also whoever ignores the cost, the eye-seeing already moves into the next crisis! I see three major areas that have led to the emergence of this financial crisis: the first, flawed regulation of financial markets; the second, poor perception of risk; and the third, that is also a truth, politics. [[Abg. Tight: European Union and Maastricht!]] As far as the regulation of financial markets is concerned, it is also clear that: Not deregulation was the problem of what some fanatical opponents claim to be in the market economy, but the problem was that for some areas and actors, there were never any rules at all – partly because there were certain areas and actors that were created in the crisis and which spread. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The banks...!]] The crisis did not arise because there are shares because managers are economics or because there are global flows of capital, but because the crisis has arisen because suddenly areas on the financial markets have become system-relevant, without anyone having noticed – neither the banks nor the supervisory authorities nor the policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] And these gaps in the regulatory system must be closed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Advocate General of the Rauffeise Phone!]] [[Abg. Strache: Raiffeisen-Shareholder!]] In the future, there must be no more players outside of all the rules in the financial markets, not – unlike others – because we want to create shackles for the markets, but because we need a clear, fair set of rules. We don't need any more rules, but we need better rules! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also clear that there can be no national singles here. In a time when financial markets are interconnected and interconnected, cross-border rules are needed. Only the common Europe can make progress here. Those who defy the EU also hinder better rules in this area for the benefit of all of us and for combating the crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As Minister of Finance, I will actively ensure that our positions on the regulation of financial markets can and can also be implemented. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Give up the banking secret!]] But in this context I would also like to make one clear: The regulatory shortcomings were not in Austria. The errors have happened mainly in the USA. It is already significant that in these days, in recent weeks, those who have caused the crisis are now practicing concerted criticism of Austria and our future investments in Eastern Europe. [[Abg. Olympian: Krugman!]] Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I firmly expect us to defend ourselves against such unqualified attacks together in the interests of our homeland! [[Accompaniment and bravado with the ÖVP as well as acclaim with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you think the head of state Voves?]] Let me come to the second area that has triggered the crisis, namely the lack of perception of risk. We know that a decent merchant would never buy unchecked goods, let alone in too high and huge quantities. But the hunt for increasing returns has led to some having ignored due diligence in the financial markets. [[Abg. Strache: The way Raiffeisen did!]] In other parts of the world, especially from the USA, the banks have granted loans without thinking about whether these loans can ever be repaid. Why? – Because they simply packed the credit risk into a new product, with the stamp “best quality” of rating agencies resold to other institutions and thus spread the default risk of these lazy loans throughout the globe. This process, I think, must be a warning to us! No one, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That is precisely what leads to irrational action. This should also be written by all those politicians who now announce that the state should take all risks for citizens. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who is this? Voves?]] That is exactly what will lead us, like Amen in prayer, to the next crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We as politicians must also not suggest to people that they can give their own responsibility to the state like their coat on the wardrobe. This would have far-reaching negative consequences for our economy as a whole. Here, too, we are already in the third area I have mentioned, which has triggered the crisis: That's politics. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... not allowed!]] Policy would also have had the power to close the gaps in the regulatory system. It simply did not do so because it was obviously easier to finance political promises. Once again, when we come back to the question of the real estate crisis in the USA, we see that in recent years, above all, politics in America has been postulated: Homes for everyone with little credit check. This has led to the conclusion that, with these favourable conditions, a crisis with billions of losses, mass bankruptcys and massive income losses in all shifts has broken out. It is a political responsibility to promise and cause nothing impossible, because at the end of the damage to everyone is an immense one. High house! In recent days, in the political debate, the demand has increased, “the rich”, “the causers” of the crisis are supposed to rise for the costs, for example with a property tax or, as I say, property tax, with the aim of supposed higher distribution justice in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Voves and Mr Faymann!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let's stick to the facts! We can certainly say a lot about Austria, but certainly not that there is a lack of distribution justice in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is one of the countries where there is the slightest inequality in income distribution and one of the highest social rates in Europe. [[Abg. Oils: Meinl! Grasser!]] Not least because of the tax reform 2009 we implement these days, 2.7 million people in Austria no longer pay any taxes at all. And for the first time, there is a taxpayer who no longer pays taxes. We do not need to say that bad, ladies and gentlemen. The real question behind this is not: Who pays for the crisis? The crucial question can only be: How can we overcome this crisis as quickly as possible? – Here too, the answer can only be: We're all together. [[Calls to the Greens.]] The central cause of the current situation is the decline in economic performance. The resumption of our economic performance must therefore be the decisive lever for overcoming this situation. And to overcome this challenge, it is not enough to reduce the tax performance, but we need the economic performance of all. That must be the maximum on the way to the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I come back to the debate of the last days, which was started under the term “justice”, but is now led by terms such as “gear” and “punishment” and is sowed with discord. There will be a discussion that is alarming in the content, in which the choice of words is partly ridiculous, but in the effect for Austria is extremely dangerous. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who?]] If you start a debate of envy, you have to think carefully and know where to end it. Today we may point out with our finger to the millionaire who is in the newspaper, or to the teacher, tomorrow it is the entrepreneur in the place who has built something, and the next morning it is perhaps the neighbor who can build a larger house or afford a larger car, and so on. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Socially agitated envy leads to exclusion and is in a situation of crisis dangerous, ladies and gentlemen, very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Not to divide, but to merge; to lead and not to seduce! This is the responsibility we now have to fulfil – whether as a member of the Federal Government or a state government. The wealth of the wealthy is as much part of our economic power as the income of the craftsman. The profits of large enterprises are as much part of our prosperity as the jobs of small businesses. And the risk of companies is just as much part of our economic strength as the labour force of the workers and the work of the farmers. History has also taught us one thing when we look into the East: There hasn't been a country in which everyone was equally good. At best, there are countries in which the same thing is bad. But we know – and here we are the best example in Austria – that: Where many are doing well, everyone can do better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, if we are defying greed, we must be careful that in the end there is no punishment for the hard work. This is a very dangerous development, which we have to accompany accordingly. High house! Another question that arises is: How can we reduce the budget deficits caused by the crisis to a sustainable level over the next few years? – The answer is technically very simple. There are only two screws on which one can turn: expenditure and revenue. Politically, both areas present major challenges. As far as the first screw is concerned, the revenue is concerned, I do not want to hide my attitude here either. The biggest effect on government revenue has a better economy. We must do everything we can to help the economy jump. This is the best way to increase government revenue, to achieve additional employment and to maintain consumption. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whoever is now talking about tax increases or new taxes, does not help the economy to jump, but puts it a leg. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] This one-sided tax increase debate would also lead to a fact that structural reforms in Austria can be avoided or postponed. However, we owe it to the citizens that their long-term expectations for a structural reform of the administration, which brings real savings in expenditure, are not once again disappointed. When, if not now, is the time for a real, profound administrative reform? We will therefore start to set the course of this administrative reform, which can only make greater savings in the long term. [[Abg. Scheibner: Again?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Start with your representation costs!]] And all those who want to prove state-political responsibility – and there are also the local authorities in demand – must make their contribution. These are decisions that will require a national effort, because they will have to be carried by a broad majority, and finally here, in the House. When, if not now, is the time to deal with these tasks? Crisis management according to the Floriani principle will not work. High house! Since my start as Minister of Finance – you know that – my credo has been: The Ministry of Finance is not only the head of financial management, but above all the heart of policy-making. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But today it has to be much more: the centre of crisis control. This budget, which we are presenting to Parliament today, is a fight against the crisis and also a roadmap for the future. At a time when numbers and digits can change so rapidly, values are all the more important than the foundation for future planning. The budget is therefore characterised by sustainability, sincerity and the will to assume responsibility. Creating frameworks and drawing borders – under this leitmotiv, we have conducted the budget negotiations. Creating frameworks to enable necessary things, but also to draw borders to secure the future. High house! An honest thanks to my colleagues, who were aware of and contributed to their overall responsibility for their place of business as well as to our country in these hard negotiations. Thanks to my two State Secretarys, Reinhold Lopatka and Andreas Schieder, we have, together with the officials of my house, whom I would like to thank very much, planned, negotiated and now implemented these budget negotiations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! From this budgetary year on, the new budgetary law will apply. From now on, everyone here on the government bank is his own Finance Minister, and that is good! [[Abg. Oillinger: What are you doing?]] It is a long time that this budgetary law has been implemented. Each of us thus has the necessary room for design to focus on our own responsibility. The new budgetary law only gives the framework within which every minister, each minister, has so much freedom, but thus has as much responsibility as never before. The financial framework will now be adopted for the first time for four years and can only be put on foot by legislative change here in the House, which is also a progress, in Parliament. That means: There is no one passing through consistent budgetary discipline from now on. This budget increases the freedom of ministers by also rewarding a economical economy at the end of the year. The funds available to a minister in the department remain her/her own and, as before, do not have to be delivered to the Ministrant..., the Ministry of Finance. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ministry of Ministrants!]] This gives each member of the government greater scope for design and allows political priorities to be set. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With the ring bag!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you: Benefits These freedoms, take care of your responsibility in the interest of taxpayers as well! As Minister of Finance, I certainly had little room and freedom in these negotiations in the face of the crisis, but even greater responsibility for this. And I also feel here that there are more laughs and cocks in the ranks on some sides to take over as responsibility for the future. This is not our way to the future of this country! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: “Hands fold, gossies ”!]] My challenge was to make as much money as possible available to control Austria safely through the crisis, but at the same time to ensure that the debt mountain does not grow into an insurmountable massif for our children. The budget is a result of this compensation. As you will see, we will take a lot more money in order to control our country well through the crisis so that we can be on our way back in the upswing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Again a plattitüde!]] The price to achieve this objective is not lower. Austria, too, can be very difficult to escape from the global environment. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The next record!]] The growth decline is forecast by Wifo in 2009 at 2.2 percent, by the Institute for Higher Studies with 2.7 percent real. And some prognostics even believe in an even stronger decline in the economy. As a result, tax revenue will fall in the coming years: income tax from € 2.7 billion in 2008 to € 1.9 billion in 2010; wage tax by around €1 billion; capital income and corporate tax together by around €2 billion. In total, we miss 4.5 billion €. This dramatic development and our massive counter-measures to combat crises mean that there will be an increase in the nominal such as the structural Maastricht deficit in 2009 and 2010. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So debt!]] Where external frameworks change, we need to expand our own framework of action, including the financial framework. We must take additional money into our hands, because we want to help vigorously in the crisis. The Maastricht deficit of the federal government will rise significantly in the next two years: 3.2 percent in 2009, further 4.1 percent in 2010 and 2011, and 4.2 percent in 2012. And if the forecasts are true, there will only be a slight decline in the federal deficit to 3.7 percent in 2013. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't look good!]] Overall, including the federal states, we expect 3.5 percent in 2009, 4.7 percent in 2010, 2011 and 2012 to reach 3.9 percent in 2013. The result is a significant increase in our public debt. Nevertheless, we are still good in the European and international comparisons. After all, the deficit of the euro area is forecast to be 5.4 percent for 2009 and 7.2 percent for the OECD. On the verge, only mention was made: In 2009, the United States targets a deficit of 13 percent. So you see: A solid compromise has been achieved in the negotiations. We can be powerful in helping, but at the same time we can have a large budget. Nevertheless, the high debt we have inherited remains a heavy burden that we have to bear through the crisis with new debts. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Who inherited from?]] We expect public debt to rise to 68.5 percent in 2009 and 78.5 percent in 2013. These deficits are high, and there is nothing to beautify them either. The crisis leaves its deep traces. But I can also mention a measure of our iron savings will here in the presentation of this budget: If I had said yes and Amen, these deficits would have increased to up to 6.4% of GDP on all wishes and demands of the group colleagues who are certainly all entitled. This would have been additional debt of € 18 billion between 2009 and 2013. This is the difference between the start of the budget negotiations and the outcome presented today. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot, however, be in the sense of the subsequent generations who will have to repay these debts later that we will break all the dams. We can't issue uncovered checks for the future. That is why we have pressed for restraint here – and all those who in the past have created expensive wish lists to the State budget can now, in view of these figures in the overall context, measure how correct and important it was to practice restraint. Everyone can calculate what this deficit development means. It is all the more important that the Federal Chancellor and I and the entire Federal Government not only maintain the defined objective of a balanced budget over the economic cycle, but also have made this commitment our budgetary policy guideline. Public budgets are charged both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side in 2009 and 2010. In 2009, due to the recessive economic situation and the decided discharge measures, the tax rate fell by almost 1 percent to 42.1 percent of GDP. In 2010, it will continue to fall to 41.2 percent of GDP. The government expenditure ratio is expected to rise to 51 percent in 2009 and will increase slightly further in 2010. This drastic increase is primarily the result of the stabilisation packages and the automatic stabilizers – that is, the additional expenditure on unemployment insurance and social benefits. But these figures require of us, above all, one: We must have disciplined budgets and, above all, save ourselves, in public administration. The priorities of the planned savings are in a restrictive personnel policy and in extreme restraint in the designable discretion expenditure. It is a matter of course for me and a question of the fact that we politicians themselves have ordered a zero wage round. Although this is only a drop on the hot stone – to say it honestly – but, as I said, everyone will have to make their contribution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] At this point I would like to point out the great achievements that our public servants also perform and to protect them from invading accusations to which they are exposed from a wide variety of sides! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In order to increase the efficiency of the federal administration, the Federal Government – and here I am particularly grateful to Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek as the responsible minister of civil servants for the very technical and target-oriented negotiations – has set itself the goal of saving some 2,800 planned jobs by 2013. Teachers and police are excluded from personnel savings in the interests of our children and security in the country. Teacher planning posts will be increased by around 800 in 2009, the number of police executives will be increased by 200 each year, which is 1 000 in total. In all other areas, a reconstruction of around 850 planning sites has been fixed in 2009 and 2010. It also aims to improve the efficiency of management through rationalisation measures and streamlining of administrative procedures. The following applies: Less is more, that is, more efficiency while at the same time saving costs for taxpayers. Public administration is also more required here than ever. It will also have to make its contribution. And we'll do a lot more. As Minister of Finance, I can only account for an increase in the budget deficit if, on the other hand, we immediately save without compromise where we know that we have a potential for efficiency or where we find high expenditure. Let's not think about it. The next few years won't be a walk! There is nothing less at stake than the sustainable future of our country. I see far and wide no alternative to fundamental reforms. We have to act right now. And the appeal also applies to the federal states to recognize the seriousness of the situation so that we can now go the way of reforms consistently together. [[Abg. Oillinger: The appeal will not help us!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Some may blame us for making too many debts now. But it would be even worse if we could be told to have done too little. We need to take additional money into our hands. We will assume additional debt for this because the world situation does not leave us any other choice. Every euro we are in addition to the minus is painful, every million we have to pay in addition to interest is only to be justified if we have previously done all we can to save them, and every billion we receive in addition to credit is a mortgage that we must also justify to our children. Every tenth percent, which we report in addition as a deficit in Brussels, is a forced jacket that will tighten our scope for action in the next few years. We must therefore put all the levers in place to reduce this deficit and these debts as quickly as possible. This applies to policy as a whole, and this applies to each department. Ladies and gentlemen! Rudolf Hundstorfer and I, we both know: Unemployment often means despair and perceptiveness for those affected. Unemployment is a threat and danger to every individual we recognize and we face. I say here and now: You can rely on us despite the difficult situation or precisely because of the difficult situation! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We will therefore spend more money on employment and the fight against unemployment in 2009/2010, because it requires the situation of us. In the field of the labour market, the Federal Government has responded to these rising unemployment rates with the extension of short-term work, training opportunities in the context of the labour market service and the regional employment offensive. On behalf of the Employment Promotion Act 2009, some €220 million will be used in addition to short-term work aid to strengthen and maintain employment. A billion € will be available to the Austrian labour market service for active labour market policy purposes in 2009. Grants to the AMS will increase from € 306 million to € 343 million in 2009. And the AMS will be more available for handling this major challenge from 2009 onwards. When it comes to jobs, we are not afraid of cost or effort. In 2009, a total of up to 250 000 people will be able to use a qualification measure supported by the AMS to increase income opportunities in the future and to be more open in the event of economic growth and in the future after dealing with the crisis. In 2009, the European Social Fund will return more than twice as much money to the labour market as it did in the previous year. Business-related labour market promotion is spent on 2009 and 2010 with € 40 million each. In the context of enterprise-related labour market promotion, only actions that directly create or obtain jobs are supported. We invest more money in the two years than ever in labour market and employment policies, according to federal estimates 2009, € 5.98 billion and € 6.4 billion in 2010. This is socially just, economically wise, because the most important thing in the economic crisis is to prevent unemployment by all means. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The forecast of unemployment insurance expenditure shows an increase in expenditure to € 5.8 billion in 2009. The main reasons for this are, on the one hand, the declining unemployment rates and, on the other hand, an extension of short-term work, as a result of economic conditions. For this purpose, € 190 million will be made available in the budget. The funds for labour market policies will be increased from around € 853 million to € 978 million. Reinhold Mitterlehner, you will confirm – even if the uncertainty for the economy is great and the international economic experts are still in disagreement as to how long and deep the recession will last: Austria's economy builds on a solid foundation. Our successful economic and budgetary policies over the past few years are now paying off, as the economic researchers are. We have been able to obtain an Austrian bonus in economic growth, which we have, which gives us scope and with which we can effectively cope with the crisis. In recent years, we have all benefited from the high economy. The per capita income is only higher in three European Union countries than in Austria. We are Europe's fourth-richest country. The productivity of our employees is also higher only in three Member States than in Austria. All these indicators reflect high international competitiveness of our domestic companies. Let us not, therefore, displease our country! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] With the billions of small and medium-sized enterprises we have put the focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are at the heart of our economic location. In particular, in 2009 we will use funds of € 105 million from the federal budget. For this purpose, €200 million will be made available from the ERP Fund for interest-based loans. As early as 2008, the AWS – Austria Economic Service – liability framework was increased to €3 billion. On the other hand, we have expanded the basis for the construction savings premium from € 1,000 to €1,200. This is being smiled by some, but it is great in its effect. This alone increases the possible volume of funding by €600 million annually. And with the measures of the second economic package in total volume of more than €1.9 billion, we increase the overall economic demand. The preferred amortization of 30 percent on moving economic goods is also an incentive for additional or advanced investments. The Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft will prefer economic activities such as investment in the area of thermal renovation of BIG buildings, maintenance measures, new buildings and general renovations of schools, universities and the judicial sector, thus generating an investment volume of up to €875 million in 2009 and 2010. With the “Energy Saving Check”, we have set a whole new trend as an impulse for thermal renovation. A volume of €100 million is evenly distributed between companies and private households. This is economic, but above all ecologically a very useful process. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the context of corporate labour market promotion, grants amounting to € 40 million per year for 2009 and 2010. Regional employment plans in particular need to be promoted. That is why we have planned grants for qualification investments of €35 million per year for 2009 and 2010. First signs that these measures are also effective and, therefore, already exist. The direction is right. This is also confirmed by the economic researchers. The Wifo predicts a growth effect for 2009 through the economic packages by a three-quarters percentage point of our GDP. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Over the last few weeks and days, the debate has been on funding in the field of education policy. Claudia Schmied and we all know that the right education policy decides on the opportunities we open up to our children and young people for the future. I also congratulate you on yesterday's outcome! It is a compromise. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] However, this compromise does not force us to change budget planning. It shall ensure within the teaching budget a redistribution of the funds between the years. Second point: Show me a group of people who have taken a right step in the right direction to deal with the crisis to the level of €160 million in payment systems! This is a measure that enables us to organise good and successful education policy for the future without any additional money from the state budget. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! But it is now time to get rid of the numbers to the children in education policy and to discuss the quality and future of education intensively! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Compared to 2008, we will increase the funds for teaching our children in 2009 by € 378.6 million. 2010 will be further increased. More money, however, obviously does not mean better training at the same time. The budgetaryly largest and most important measure in the field of education is the reduction of the number of students in compulsory schools and in the sub-level of AHS. This project is fully financed. In addition, the project “Teaching with Matura”, especially in economically difficult times, can be implemented in conjunction with regional partners. We provide € 4.3 million more in 2009 alone compared to 2008 and € 7.5 million in 2010. The culture also falls within the competence of Claudia Schmied. [[Abg. Oils: Oh you!]] We are a cultural nation, and we want to ensure the preservation and expansion of our cultural diversity and the open cultural climate in the future. The cultural budget for 2009 is €447 million, almost half a billion €. Also in the field of universities, dear Johannes Hahn, we raise the funds. In total, the universities will receive €2.56 billion in 2009, which is € 115.4 million more than in 2008. In 2010, these funds increase by another €191.9 million. In addition, with this budget, we share the loss of university tuition fees with around €157 million annually – I emphasize: 157 million €! - off. In 2009, we will also provide more resources for the technical universities. 188.9 million € are available for the promotion of professional universities. This is € 11.5 million more than 2008. The Federal Government's research and development expenditure is rising from €2.22 billion in 2008 to €2.56 billion in 2009 and €2.78 billion in 2010. It is ensured that the research and development ratio, which was 2.54 percent of GDP in 2008, can also achieve the policy target of 3 percent by 2010. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a former Minister for the Environment and Agriculture, I am concerned about environmental and agricultural policy, just as Nikolaus Berlakovich did. We increase environmental expenditure by €292 million in 2009 compared with 2008. Compared to 2008 this means in the environmental budget: With regard to environmental support in Germany and abroad, plus € 82 million, with the JI/CDM programmes plus € 77 million, in the climate and energy funds, the flexible reserve, plus € 52 million, in the urban water industry plus € 21 million and in the old- load rehabilitation plus € 6 million. In addition, the climate and energy funds are intended to help save energy and greenhouse gases in addition. Our farmers, ladies and gentlemen, stand for high quality food. They maintain our cultural landscape, they are sustainable and genetic-free. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We therefore increase the expenditure in the field of market organisation – direct payment, farm premiums and other models – by around €64 million to €802 million, in rural development, which is a core and central part of the Austrian agricultural policy, by around €50 million to €557 million. High house! Doris Bures is responsible for Austria's overcrowding with regard to the best possible infrastructure. Investment in the infrastructure does not go by any way. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Therefore, more than ever before, investments are being made in the development and modernisation of rail and road. Building mature projects are preferred. The ÖBB alone are planning investments in the rail infrastructure of €2.2 billion in 2009 and 2010. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] ASFINAG’s investments rise to around €1.3 billion, and BIG also increases its investments. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Security – that has also made Maria Fekter clear and clear in the negotiations, and I share her attitude – must be worth something to us. Security and crime reduction will continue to be top targets in the future. [[Abg. Strache: This is a dangerous warning, because it has never been as bad as now!]] Mr. Strache! We therefore provide budget resources for 1,000 additional police officers for Austria. This is a result of the budgetary negotiations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is also important to us that an accelerated processing of open asylum procedures can take place while maintaining a high quality. Therefore, the state of staff of the Federal Asyl Office will be increased by 105 planned posts by the end of 2010. More security also means additional measures in the field of communication and information technology. We ensure the further expansion of the BOS digital radio system. The development and expansion of prevention and information work, the raising of road safety and enhanced international cooperation will also bring greater security. For internal security, we make around €100 million more available in 2009 at €2.34 billion than in 2008. In 2010 there will even be €2.36 billion. However, security also means the continuation and further development of the legal protection of the population. Correct and fair case law is essential for the functioning of our democracy. For the years 2009 and 2010, the Federal estimates for Claudia Bandion-Ortner's budget are therefore EUR 1.17 billion each. It can set priorities for numerous reform projects because of its tight negotiation – this is particularly important in the current situation for the Austrian economic location – such as the upcoming GmbH or insolvency law reform, the creation of a modern main and legal remedy procedure, or also the improvement and adaptation of corruption law. Further emphasis is placed on the protection of our children in the area of family law. Important areas are also the supply of agents and victim protection measures. No one can be disadvantaged because of his gender in Austria. Therefore, in 2009 we increase expenditure on active women's policy and thus Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek's budget by €1.24 million. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this context, it is important to ensure that women's advice and intervention agencies are protected against violence. However, we are going one step further: The anchoring of gender budgeting will take an important step towards achieving a gender-friendly budget. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: State language is German!]] The maintenance of an active and powerful state defense system as the cornerstone of our state is out of question. I and we confess to that. That is why I agreed with Norbert Darabos to increase the total expenditure for national defence and sport in 2009 to €2.21 billion. The willingness to use our army in Germany and abroad is thus fully guaranteed. In the field of sports, we have also taken precautions that future projects of structural nature – Eishalle Innsbruck, stadium reconstructions, preparation for the alpine skiers in Schladming and so on – can be taught accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! Our voice in the world is heard! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh, oh, oh!]] There's Michael Spindelegger and I completely agree. We want to strengthen Vienna as the centre of foreign policy in Europe and in the world and to continue Austria's active commitment to the European Union. A special challenge for us is undoubtedly the exercise of our responsibility in the UN Security Council. Representative of Michael Spindelegger will be actively involved in world policy decisions in the coming years. Therefore, €435 million are available in 2009 and €440 million in 2010. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Alois Stöger, in the responsibility of the Ministry of Health there is a wide range for care and health. Being able to live in dignity is one of the central tasks of our community. Therefore, we will improve the framework conditions for people in need of care and decide on an average 5 percent of the care allowance. In 2009, we will spend more on the demographic impact of € 182.7 million. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oil: Incorrect resort!]] The budget for measure names for people with disabilities is €72 million in 2009. This is living solidarity, reflected in our budget figures. We must start with health care and ensure it at a high level. For health care, health and nutrition safety and in particular for the further functioning of the local health telephone, € 865 million was planned for 2009 and € 993 million for 2010. For the stabilisation of the financial situation of the statutory health insurance companies, €45 million is budgeted for 2009 as emergency aid. In addition, there is €100 million for 2010 to support the cash registers if they – only if they are! – start and implement the necessary structural measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Before I come to my resort, another word about the pensioners. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ministry of Ministries!]] Most of our prosperity today is due to their tireless commitment to our country. This is why pensions have already been made on 1 January. ==References====External links== In order to maintain and strengthen the purchasing power and standard of living of pensioners in Austria, the pension adjustment for 2009 and the increase in compensation rates was made to 1. ==References== [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Under the inflation rate, Minister!]] The government has spent around €1.14 billion on these measures, and a total of €8.4 billion in budget appropriations for 2009 and €8.8 billion for 2010. I will now come to the areas of my department competence. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Ministry of Ministries!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the time of discharge is now! With the tax reform 2009, this Federal Government has decided on the biggest tax relief for decades. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] More money on the Austrian stock exchanges means finally and finally more consumption, more jobs and security of the future for Austria. For the tariff reduction alone, we have taken in €2.3 billion, which comes directly into the money exchanges of the people in Austria. Acting retroactively with 1. January 2009 this discharge will actually be felt in the next days and weeks. [[New applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For workers, annual income of at least € 16 870 is grossly tax-free. The import tax rate and the second frontier tax rate have been reduced. The amount from which the peak tax rate is applied has been increased from € 51 000 to € 60 000. In particular, the medium-sized, the service providers benefit from the reduction of tariffs through our progressive tax system – depending on income – to an increased extent. These discharges are a clear commitment to the service providers in our country, but also a social signal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition to reducing tariffs, we set a clear sign of relief for companies, because only a strong economy creates new jobs. The current amount for invested profits will be extended from revenue-expenditure calculators to accounting companies from 2010 onwards and increased from 10 to 13 percent. In addition, the investment requirement has been abolished. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Another priority of relief is where children are. We also relieve families with children with a family package of € 510 million. This includes the increase in the amount of child replacement, the maintenance allowance and the new child allowance. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Dear Christine Marek, I know that this has always been a very special concern to you: For the first time, child care costs up to €2 300 per year and child can be deducted – a family-political milestone! I am proud to be able to implement it accordingly as Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In addition, we have planned additional expenses compared to 2008 of € 32.5 million and € 12 million for the children's free rides in 2009. Together with all family policy measures, one thing is clear: A 15. Monthly salary for Austrian families is therefore reality! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, to give an example: A family with two children aged 5 and 10 years with two earning parents – the father earns 2 000 € and the mother 1 500 € gross – with annual child care costs of 2 300 € saves a total of 3 277 € thanks to the announced discharge measures that will be implemented shortly. These are family policies that support our position as one of the most family-friendly countries in the world. And we should be proud of that together! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Now also a word on a subject that not only employs us here but also the common tables repeatedly: the banking package, which has been adopted here with a unanimous decision. Yes, we have chained a bank package with a volume of up to €100 billion, but neither the Chancellor nor I have made it easy to make the decisions connected with it, and we have not at all given the hard-working tax money to banks or managers, or will do so in the future. On the contrary: The requirements for the banks are hard and clear, even if you always claim the opposite against better knowledge. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The conditions for the banks are tough and clear: No bonus payments for managers for the 2008 financial year and no bonus payments if they cannot make the dividend for the loaned money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the ÖBB?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The bank package is a guarantee package – and it does not serve the bank’s self-interest. [[Abg. Grosz: Exclusive for the banks!]] It is a guarantee package for millions of savers, a financing package for Austrian businesses and companies and also a stabilisation package for the urgently needed stabilisation of our banking system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for unanimously agreeing to this package to stabilise the banks. High house! We face enormous challenges and tasks today. The world has been in the most severe economic crisis for 80 years. It is true – and this is our guiding principle, and I believe that this must be the guiding motive of all of us in politics – to master the crisis, to strengthen the economy and to help people. And this time does not distinguish – this will also show the discussions in the coming months and years –, it does not distinguish between government and opposition, but only between right and wrong, in time and too late, responsible and not responsible. These are the parameters we have to measure ourselves on! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's why I appeal to you all: Let's take the chance and see now: After the crisis, it must not be before the crisis! Let us work together to ensure that Austria gets through this crisis quickly and is stronger than other countries after this crisis! Let's get together! Our home country is not faced with major challenges for the first time, but together we can master this work, and it will succeed this time too. The double budget 2009/2010 and for the next few years is a budget of determination. With this stable foundation we create it – and we can do it! - of its own strength. We face an unusual situation, but we can certainly master it together: with sense of necessity, with feeling for the potential and in responsibility for the whole! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8043	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for his statement. [[10:13:00]] 2. Point Report of the Committee on Education on the Government Template (105 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the School Organisation Act (169 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8070	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Mayer. Speech time: 10 minutes, as agreed in the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8101	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Education is more than education, and teaching is more than in class. I believe that this recognition has also come to be the one that is far from education policy and has no experience with it except its own schooling in recent weeks. In fact, education is one of the few, if not the only raw material we have in Austria. And in a knowledge society, as it is currently promoting and developing, education is the central challenge for a sustainable modern prosperity society. At this point I particularly thank the Chancellor for his clear and clear words, which have led to a conclusion being placed under the sad financial debate, because this allows us to focus our attention on the content again, and that is, I believe, the central challenge of the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has launched the project “School of the Future” with a dedicated programme. The focus of this project is the child, the young person to whom we want to open up all the life and future opportunities he needs in order to be able to meet the great challenges. The motto is that all these measures should be accompanied by: Strong demands and weaker promotions! One of the ambitious projects put there on rail is the school’s attempt “new middle school”. I can tell you from personal experience how important it is to eliminate the unsavory early selection procedure at the end of early schooling, as to re-set the course and see how we can reorganise the middle level. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Muttons]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you know what this is about today?]] At present, it is not politically possible – as you already have the right, Mr Westenthaler, to implement a common school, as they actually consider to be useful all educators who are responsible for dealing with this matter. You have to take note of that. But because this is currently not politically possible, Claudia Schmied has tried a new way in a very committed way, namely the school attempt “new middle school”. This will mean that on the one hand, the primary schools will be upgraded and brought closer to the higher schools – this is an important first goal – and that on the other hand, we can offer improved and stronger individual support to schools and that the countless performance groups will be abolished at least where they are superfluous. The aim is to strengthen and improve individual support, and I am pleased that today's decision opens the way for smaller federal states, such as Vorarlberg, to be able to make use of this important project beyond their quota. I am convinced that, when the time is ripe, we will be able to introduce this new system across the board, so that our middle level will also be developed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the two hours?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the concept of a new, socially more just and powerful school is in the first phase equipped with many more projects. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How it looks with the two hours more!]] One of the most important steps is that we are finally taking measures towards a new, modern early pedagogy, which has been seriously neglected for years and decades. The free compulsory kindergarten year, the level of language recognition and therefore improved language support are very important improvements and prerequisites. Also important will be the consistent continuation of the reduction of the maximum number of students. It will finally be so far in a few years that we will no longer have school classes with 30 students and more, but that the number 25 will be considered the maximum limit and we will be able to enter the individual funding. [[Abg. Brosz: What about the high schools?]] This is now on track and can actually be implemented with the new budget decisions we are going to adopt today and in the next few weeks. [[Abg. Brosz: There's nothing in there from higher schools!]] A crucial area will also be the improvement of day-to-day care. The person who wants the school of the future to play not only at school and at home with the students or with the teachers or in the follow-up organisations, but also that it can take place in schools themselves to the fullest extent, must support all the measures of this federal government that are going towards enhanced promotion of the whole day. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where did these two hours come now? We want to know! That's why it's actually happening today!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Thema misses!]] I am absolutely clear that it cannot be the opposition's desire to address new, constructive proposals to enter into a contentious debate, because it is much easier to discuss the subject of education on the surface, because it is not possible to put itself on the content of the debate. [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] What about all day care? What about increased individual support? What about early promotion? How do we improve the opportunities of young people? – This is essentially the question, and not how to finance these things! And I'll invite you to: Finally, introduce very constructive ideas and suggestions on how your school will look forward to the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: Is everything in the committee!]] But we are faced with a great challenge – which is to be mentioned and discussed at this point – if it is to be talked beyond class and school operations beyond the school of the future. I think it will be necessary, very quickly and decisively, as was generally suggested by Mr Vice-Chancellor today, to get into the field of administrative reform and to do so in the field of school administration. Here we have double and, in part, even tributaries, which still come from the monarchy, which one must actually dust and abolish in order to manage additional financial resources for the future. I also see the danger of a lack of teachers in five or six years' time. We must also recognize this danger, this development! If we know that in the next 11 or 12 years half of the current 120,000 teachers will retire and we will have to replace at least this half, then we will have to intervene very decisively here! We need a new joint training of all educators, starting from early pedagogicals, a working group on this subject has now been set up, up to people's, main and, of course, AHS teachers – this new training model must and will come on track! – and a new right of service and remuneration, which also makes it more attractive for young colleagues to enter this profession in the same amount of living and finally take this decisive step. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I say as a teacher who was as committed as teachers and is the way he is an educational politician, especially the implementation of an active school. If it is to succeed in raising motivation and desire to learn from the students and to obtain them – these are crucial questions – then we need teachers who are motivated! I'll tell you: Motivation in education is not everything, but without motivation everything is nothing! And we all do well together to work together to increase this motivation and not undermine it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] The school of the future has earned this and the school of the future, ladies and gentlemen, deserves your and our full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8290	Next, Mr Amon. Speech time: 10 minutes, as agreed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8321	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We are debating today an amendment to the School Organisation Act on setting a new limit. The original border has established that only 10 percent of such schools can be tested with regard to the so-called model schools in Germany. This limit will be changed: A global limit of 10 percent will be introduced, thus providing the opportunity to ensure increased flexibility for such model tests. This is, I think, a good, right decision that Parliament will make today, because it will achieve what the Minister of Finance has so impressively demanded in his budget speech today, because it allows us to go back to the debate on education, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am going to be perfectly in line with my previous speaker, the education speaker of Social Democracy, when he believes that he is glad that the sad financing debate is now ending, but it is still a matter of saying a few words to that effect. First of all, the good news: There will be no strike on the part of teachers this week, because thanks be to God for a compromise during the night. – That is, I think, the good news of today. [[Abg. Jury: A lazy compromise! A lazy compromise!]] This also means that all parents are sure that their children and young people are provided accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The minister is fucked up!]] This compromise was necessary because the Minister of Education proposed that in the future all teachers should do more than two hours of teaching – a proposal that was legitimately controversial, because he would have meant that at least 10,000 young teachers had lost their job. [[Abg. Jury: That's wrong! That's wrong!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] He would also have sent a negative signal to those who have just graduated from educational universities or teaching studies, because the perspective of having a professional future in the education system would have been avoided. Nevertheless, I am glad that there has been a compromise during the night, and I would also like to inform you of this. I quote from the lecture to the Council of Ministers: A part-time model will be introduced. An overtime account will be implemented. The L2 teachers will have a conversion to 1L contracts. There will be an increase in the supply obligation for state teachers from 10 to 20 hours, with the Federal Teachers increasing the supply obligation by 10 hours. There is a wealth of discounts at various surcharges and a reduction in additional service factors. There is also a falling away of all school autonomous days, and it has been agreed that there should be a new teacher service right, ensuring that the income curve is tipped to the beginning. This means higher entry salaries for younger teachers in a flatter course of the curve, i.e. a flattening of the effect of the seniority principle. This is also a great solidarity for teachers, for which I would like to express my express thanks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a solidarity of teachers to ensure that colleagues with fixed-term contracts do not lose their profession, and it is a solidarity with younger trainees in order to give them a perspective to be able to have a career in the future in the education system. I would like to thank you very much at this point, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank the Minister for Finance at the last moment for having intervened in the negotiations – I do not want to thank the Chancellor, of course – and thus he has achieved a solution: a solution in a conflict that has indeed hindered us in the educational debate, because what we have been doing here was not an educational debate, but it was actually a debate between employers and employees in order to achieve an additional achievement. [[Call to the ÖVP:A working time debate!]] This is not an educational debate, it is a social-partnership debate, and in fact this debate could have been held much earlier, one could have led it much more intrusively and one could have brought it to a solution in the past. Thank you, Minister of Finance, for allowing us to find a solution now! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't want to miss it – and I'm going back to the content discussion – because I think it's important: We are discussing today the amendment of the School Organisation Act, and we have succeeded in developing the diversity of the Austrian education system with this change and the possibility to carry out different model school experiments in the individual federal states by testing at least such a model school type in the respective federal states. There you can look at this, but these model schools have to undergo an evaluation at the end of the day, because we have already had quite a negative experience with a wealth of school tests that were ultimately not evaluated, which were perhaps transferred to the regular school system or were simply kept on testing, and I think this would be the wrong way. I think it is right to ensure that these model schools are evaluated accordingly and are compared at the end of the day as new models prove themselves compared to the existing education system in order to then transfer the good models to the regular education system. However, in order to ensure that this evaluation takes place on the one hand and that this evaluation is also one that enables real comparability, the government parties today also want to submit a corresponding resolution, which I do with it. The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Education, Art and Culture is invited to draw up a comprehensive evaluation concept on the pilot experiments, taking into account the following: Accompanied by the BIFIE Scientific Advisory Board; Considering the balance of comparative instruments, such as education standards; Presentation of the development of model school tests in comparison to the regular education system. Where applicable, different use of resources shall be collected separately from the evaluation concept; developing the number of relationships between AHS and primary school teachers in the classes of model school experiments and at the respective locations, as well as the analysis of the cooperation climate and the cooperation experience; Ensuring a comprehensive flow of information to the school partners. The Federal Minister for Education, Art and Culture is also asked, according to § 7a para. 4 Results Report to be produced to the National Council.’ With this, ladies and gentlemen, we ensure that we do not have model school tests in individual federal states, which may then be transferred to the regular school system without an appropriate evaluation. I think it's necessary to look at that. It is also necessary to further develop the school as a whole, to strengthen it in its autonomy, because we all know that smaller units are more flexible than larger units. School autonomy will ensure that there will continue to be priorities in each school type in the future. It is important to strengthen the school partnership – we have just experienced in recent weeks that this has not always been the case. I really want to ask – and I believe that all political forces must have an interest in it – that on all educational policy issues all school partners are involved, that they are asked for their opinion and that they can contribute accordingly. Finally, early childhood education is also important, and I support my colleagues Mayer on this point. It has only been possible for State Secretary Marek to set a milestone in this context, also in the matter of childcare. I think this is a success, and I congratulate you very much on it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The ideas of Elisabeth Gehrer, such as the establishment of the language level and the introduction of the education standards, show how necessary it is to keep thinking about education, to further develop the education system. I think we have taken one step with the compromise that was found at night and with today's government template another essential step.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8453	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8548	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8569	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! My previous speakers made comments on the last night's compromise. This “compromise” – which I would like to put only quotation marks – was achieved after eight weeks: after eight weeks full of excitement, threats of withdrawal and threats of withdrawal and threats of strike. The strike for Thursday was already in the room, but finally there was a six-eye talk at noontime. The Federal Minister was referred to the Chancellor's Office in the matter which was now stated as the principal, and there was then a conversation with Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor, at the same time Finance Minister, who, obviously – as those who were on the ground – would have been more like a headwashing, could be readable to the stone mines with which all those involved have left the house. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That was an execution!]] Compromise? – In Austria there is the saying: If two argues, the third party is pleased. – This was put out of effect with yesterday’s compromise. Now it's like: If two argues, the third party will be fined, and in this case it is the taxpayer in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With all the thanks of my previous speakers of Red and Black, I have actually seen only one thing: The thanks to the taxpayers have been missed. – But it must be refunded here! Ladies and gentlemen, also on TV screens! They are the ones who have to pay the tokens for a discussion that should not have been held here, because the financial hole has only arisen because there is a prestige project. This is the new secondary school, the new key word for the general school, in which the EIA has given up and withdrawn from its education policy. Mr Amon said: Yes, we can now finally return to education policy! – Where was it? You have been staying for the two and a half years since the Federal Ministers were in the coalition with you? - She wasn't there! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Instead, only this question of the last days and weeks, what we are doing with the time of education, just as it has already been said, is: That was a question of jobs! What are the alternatives or what has been done with the Gordic knot of the last eight weeks? Did he get hanged? - No! You don't do that with a Gordian knot, it's hit with the sword! But even that was not done, the Gordian knot was taken as it is, and then they said: He's coming into the box now, and in two years we'll keep looking! Stunding of the rents of the school buildings to the BIG. – What is this now a blessed proposal? Will there be any similar or similar measures in Vienna for renting in the municipal buildings? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are short-sighted measures. You think the problems can easily be pushed away like with a Caterpillar. This is not a serious educational policy! I hope you have the words of Mr Finanzminister that you have to deal with the resources very carefully, because you must not put too much burden on the future generations, nor in your ears. This is already the first break from what the Minister of Finance told us in his budget speech. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, it is not only about this, but it has also been mentioned that all young teachers who can indeed enjoy this agreement are rightly taken over in a public service relationship. Saving: 500 million €, as I read. – This means that the State does not pay any employees' contributions. What's the result? – In 30, 35, 40 years, pensions will have to be paid directly from the budget. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Now, too!]] – That means it's not just two years, but it's going to be moved away with the Caterpillar. To get back to the subject: The ÖVP has signed off from education policy. The admission of the school experiment as a whole, in a form of extension within the framework of the 10-percent possibilities – so that one can be flexible here, as it is so beautiful – means nothing more than that the ÖVP has given up there, because everyone knows very well that the school tests are being promoted in such a way that a failure cannot come into question from the outset. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] This is just the immanence that inhabits him! You need to know that despite the evaluation you have requested and the same thing you have put on the table here, the new secondary school, the entire school will come, although, as you have correctly said, the problems are somewhere else. In the last few weeks, however, there has actually been an educational issue in Austria, but this has not been strangled at all by the reform movement that has shown itself. Based on the initiative of the Freedom Club, figures were put on the table here, as the proportion of children with non-German mother tongues in schools looks like. There would have been a need for action and reform, but here is absolute standstill, absolute paralysis! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A small theme on the edge: At the last meeting of the Education Committee, we saw that numerous petitions, numerous letters were sent to the members, demanding that private schools should at last be encouraged to be put on the same footing as public and religious schools. There is also a corresponding network. And these writers thanked Mr Walser of the Greens for taking this initiative. In this association of about 60 private schools there is a managing director who is the district councillor of the Greens in the Ashergrund. It seems to me, however, that if these schools already demand money from the state, they can also see if they are going to comply with the public contract. I have therefore sent a request to this association with the request that these private schools also tell us how high the proportion of children with non-German mother tongue is with them. It seems to me that, in Austria, in particular, it is green supporters who say: Integration is so insanely important, but not with my child, it comes to the private school! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the system: Preaching water, drinking wine! – That’s not how it can be! We therefore expect appropriate information on these increased activities; there can be no State money before. It would be even more beautiful if the luxury for their own children should also be financed by the state. There is a need to create justice here, and public procurement needs to be fulfilled, so we can rightly talk about it. Back to the ÖVP – adoption of the content education policy: I have been given the impression that the education policy of the ÖVP is, in fact, only to keep the assets – in the national school councils, district school councils, in the directorial posts, in the teachers' positions, what there is so much – and one thinks that there is nothing to do about content. We believe that the root cause is the “New Middle School” itself, where funding failed. We therefore also propose a motion for a resolution which is important to us: [[Quoted print version removed]] These are the essential points, everything else comes later! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What I'm saying is a clear yes is early child care. On Mr Mayer's comments, I would also like to say a word: Mr Mayer, you said that teachers must be motivated. – Talk to your own Federal Minister if the motivation given by your wife Federal Minister has actually been given in the last eight weeks!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8706	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8774	Now comes Mr Mag. Stadler. 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8795	Madam President. High house! The only concrete thing we have today from the debt debate is that the so-called teacher strike is cancelled for the next Thursday. Mr Neugebauer, if you plan a teacher strike again, then you should think about who needs to do so before. I'll tell you: We have – to be sure the parents know this – prepared a ruling against the ÖGB, in order that the parents would have to organize a day care if they no longer taught their children in the public school financed by them with tax money, because teachers went into strike. And we've been thinking about the fact that those parents have a reasonable right to substitute the ÖGB for the school money they have to pay. So it will not happen that the ÖGB has strikes, that teachers will strike and be paid for, but the parents should look where they stay, and bear the costs for them. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you plan something like this again, you will have to expect us to be involved on the parents' side. – I had already figured out what this would have meant to myself. [[Au-Rufe near SPÖ and ÖVP.]] - Excuse me. Of course, it keeps itself in bounds. But do we know how long teachers will strike under EIA in the future, once they are in the process of strike?- Oh, my God! Do you know what this can mean for single parents? Do you even have a feeling for single parents? [[Call the BZÖ:No!]] – I do not feel that way, ladies and gentlemen! No, it's just about securing the property of teachers. Single parent mothers don't matter to you, that's the problem! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They know the needs and concerns of single parents, especially single mothers who have to earn their money mad at a cash desk in a supermarket, only from the hearsay. You really don't care because you need to protect the assets of privileged people. You have shown this with this approach. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – This is not a presumption, it is an experience in dealing with the Austrian People’s Party. You are social concerns the last thing that matters to you, ladies and gentlemen, the last thing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied, I must remind you of your resignation threat. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, why is she still sitting there?]] I didn't understand. I quote it again for those who no longer remember it. 5. March 2009 – I took out only one daily newspaper –: “My resignation would be the consequence.” With these words, Minister of Education Claudia Schmied, SPÖ, threatens her political retreat in the "Standard" interview, if the structural measures she requested – something different from what came out yesterday evening – are in concrete terms the extension of the teaching requirement for teachers by two hours, in which the available budget should not come. - Quote. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When was that?]] -5. March 2009, it hasn't been that long. Mrs. Federal Minister, it is not that I would like your resignation now, I just didn't understand why you start with a withdrawal request and then get so pitiful. That is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you are already on the gun of a withdrawal threat, then you have to go through it until the end, then you have to show up on the concreteists from the ÖVP teacher union under the leadership of the union president Neugebauer Harde, then you have to show standing qualities – and not turn around after eight weeks on the first occasion. If you rise with a withdrawal request, you should show more standing quality – or you really need to withdraw. I wouldn't have wanted that. I wish you'd show me standing quality. Ladies and gentlemen, the true Minister of Education is now Walter Riegler, because nothing goes without him! [[Abg. Bucher: That's it!]] Mrs. Schmied, you could really withdraw right now, because Walter Riegler is here. The union officer takes over the place when it has to be cold. He creates – not you, Mrs. Federal Minister, create, but Walter Riegler creates! Walter Riegler and the ÖVP union are in reality leading the Ministry of Education. You, Mrs Federal Minister, would have – and I say to you: They still have them – you have and at the beginning of this debate had a broad support by the majority of this House. Not the ÖVP, not your government partner, but the broad majority of this house was on your side and is on your side. They have a large majority in the population behind them. Ladies and gentlemen, what better wishes than a majority in Parliament, a majority in the people – and on the contrary, is there nothing but a small well-organized teacher union that fears its possessions, a small well-organized lobby under the leadership of the Austrian People's Party? [[Abg. Bucher: Gehabt, no more today!]] Mrs Bundesminister, I regret to have to say that, but: The ÖVP has presented you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Today again: Mr Amon's speech was spicy with fine ear figs for the Mrs. Federal Minister, with full performance. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Cynical!]] You have said quite precisely – I have been careful; the Minister of the State, by the way, too, she has been very angry about your speech, I have looked at it – she has violated the school partnership. Don't you know what a school partnership is? You need colleague Amon to tell you what a school partnership is?- Oh, my God! Otherwise, Walter Riegler will tell you if Amon can't talk anymore. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Didn't you know that you provoked mass unemployment in teachers? – Mr Amon said. I don't know what Walter Riegler told you to do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Sonnberger.]] – He still says yes and nods to that. Please, for the cameras! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So mass unemployment, for God's sake, Mrs. Federal Minister! – Which minister are you, you have to ask if you trust your government partner. Mr. Elmar Mayer, has that been the thanks for your grueling speech, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is being presented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or that he is cashing ear figs? – They risked mass unemployment! Ladies and gentlemen, this is the entry of the Austrian People's Party: The ÖVP is not interested in educational reform measures, it is not interested in the needs of the students, not in the needs of the parents, but it is only interested in its own clients and not anyone else. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, Mrs. Minister, you have not only been presented by the ÖVP – unfortunately, one has to say – but you have also been left hanging by your own head of the party and Chancellor. This is particularly unfortunate because these measures, which you have now negotiated, have the following history, and this is now briefly summarized: The Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the ÖVP puts together the means you need; the draft budget, which you keep secret over weeks and months, cannot be seen by anyone, under the direction of this Vice-Cancellor, you must not even show the teachers – that was at all the greatest! And then the ÖVP teacher union boss comes and says: Schneck’n, we don’t do that, we do everything we can so that the minister doesn’t reach her savings goal, which her own vice chancellor of the ÖVP has given her! - Well, that's called a nice double strategy. You, Mrs. Minister, can do what you want, just like the famous rabbit in the rabbit and hedgehog game, no matter where you land, it's always a black one who says: Schneck’n, please come to the other end, come back when you have achieved something! That is, you were really hunted back and forth like the famous hare in the hare and hedgehog game – and then the ÖVP also applauded it! Getting Now She is also embarrassed by Mr Amon von der ÖVP – thanking Elmar Mayer for that. Mr. Mayer, I didn't understand you thanked the blacks too! Did you write the speech before the so-called agreement was reached last night? But then at least you should have adjusted it. She can't have been very up-to-date. The great silence of this government was no one less than a German chancellor Faymann, because contrary to what you said, colleague Elmar Mayer, the Federal Chancellor has found no clear words at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He left them hanging!]] Yes, Faymann has let you hang, Mrs. Schmied! The Federal Chancellor has found no clear words at all, he has made no use of his competence in the directives at all. He only looked at the fact that the harmonisation with the ÖVP is not disturbed, that was the whole concern of this Federal Chancellor. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, with this so-called package you have now decided, is not to implement any school reformatory concern to achieve any improvement in infrastructure. The stupidest of the stupid sit up there, that is, the students. [[towards gallery]] The teachers' union has still chased the students on the street, has raised them up before – and now the students have to sit in the school longer because they are removed from the school autonomous days. The students are the ones who are most tottered. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the student union, when you go to demonstrate once again, think ahead of you for whom you are demonstrating. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] They demonstrate outside only for the lobby of the teachers, and finally, the fools are the students and the taxpayers, because, and there is colleague Rosenkranz right God, the taxpayer has to pay the whole token again. Finally, only the taxpayer is left. That's about the federal real estate company. Turn whole from one pocket to the other – and finally the taxpayer has to pay it. That is all that came out, Mrs. Federal Minister – fully presented by the Austrian People's Party – charged to the students, at the expense of the parents, at the expense of taxpayers! That's the sum of this eight-week dispute. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when I look at what Mr Vice-Chancellor said about this, I must say: That is really “epochal! ” I got the impression that he's already become gas station manager. I quote: “We invest clearly in education, science and research. Because investment in our country’s intellectual and creative potential is the indispensable fuel that is driving our economy.” – Quotes. School as a “head column” – and we have seen for eight weeks how that looks!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9041	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9063	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Dear Secretary of State! It is already an immeasurable thing to let Ewald Stadler speak for education. Here all the serious the students and To call students the stupidest of fools is an unfrozenness of the special class and has nothing to do with a respectful relationship between the partners at all! [[Congratulation with Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP]] However, it is appropriate for someone who, in the last session, claimed to be all serious that the teacher's profession is a half day's job and teachers should work more properly. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where have you been for the last eight weeks? He's one too! You're a teacher!]] This is typical of what is available in the BZÖ – with an exception – in educational competence. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You also secured your wells!]] To remind it again: Some have mentioned today that it should actually be schoolchildren, but unfortunately, in the discussion of the last days there was nothing to be noticed. To do this, you can only say: The mountain cried – and a mouse was born. Because of a real reform, Mrs. Minister – I'm sorry – there was really nothing to feel in the last seven or eight weeks. From approaches to an education policy there was not even a very quiet thing to hear. The only good thing I give to my previous speaker is the rejection of the strike. Mr Rosenkranz, speaking also on your comments: What you're doing here is simply an insanity. You are sending a letter to the umbrella association that arrived yesterday, and you ask the private school operators' umbrella association to have the answer today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You should speak as a greener, not as...!]] Please, it can't be that way. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: I didn't say that at all! Listen!]] I can tell you that we are in this area of reform, we have submitted a request for equal treatment of schools in free circulation with the private religious schools. I hope you will support it accordingly. Unfortunately, these private schools need to spend the money themselves at the moment, i.e. the parents have to raise it, and unfortunately very, very many migrant families are unable to make financial contributions here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz]] So don't pretend we're slipping past integration through the back door – the opposite is the case. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: This is the front door, not the back door!]] And you know her exactly that the opposite is the case! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to focus briefly on one aspect that Mr Amon did not mention in his narration. You have listed a lot of things that came out yesterday as a compromise, but have not mentioned that the Federal Ministry is delaying various construction projects to the extent of € 100 million. These include, for example, the design of schools according to disability standards. The fact that this is a counter-productive act in the current situation is what we will point out in the next few days. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you promise a new teacher's right for the x-th time, the chickens will tickle. I can't hear that again. Please do it at last – who prevents you from doing so? We have been demanding this for many, many years. We know you have to look at the money, we know that you have to deal with it very carefully in times like this, but, Mrs Minister – I am sorry to have to point out – you have not done your homework. The housework would have been to develop a vision of Austrian school policy that will go into the future. You'd have models in your own ranks. I remember Otto Glöckel, who developed a vision in a similar situation 100 years ago – right after the First World War, hyperinflation, an almost bankruptcy state – the vision of a fair school, the vision of a common school. All these are aspects that we still bitterly miss today, of which there was not even something in the first place. I can also recall another of your predecessors, Fred Sinowatz, who did something de facto. It is interesting that social democracy is no longer able to remember its own reformers, but then we Greens do it. These were real reforms. It's not what's happening now. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to education policy, we must finally get out of the ideology trap, in which there are mainly red and black. This is a discussion that goes beyond our problems. We have a school that makes a lot of problems, we have a school, as it was called this morning in the “Morgenjournal”, which lets experts work in a stupid institution, in an institution that fears the children that makes them sick, that makes teachers sick. And that's where we have to put the lever on. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We need a school that awakens curiosity, which children like to go to where children can explore, a school in which there are conflicts between the teachers and not confrontations as we have them today. We need a school where children learn to work in the team, a school in which educators are supported – in terms of logos, social workers, additional language teachers and so on. But above all, we also need a school that gives all children opportunities and not only privileged children, as is the case at present. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need a school in which not false elite thinking is taught, as is the case at present, which is specifically what you are doing, but a school in which the children learn social behavior in which they learn that every person is equally valuable and in which they work together to solve problems. [[New condolences with the greens.]] This may be a reference to the EIA's colleagues: This can also be seen from an economic point of view. The McKinsey staff consulting agency has said exactly the same thing in the “economist” as what we are saying here when it tried to determine the success factors. No, it is – and this is the positive message – not only a matter of money, but also of how we use the money in our school system. It is – and this is quite clear – about the quality of teachers. That is the crucial point! The quality of teachers is crucial so that we can continue in our school system. Now to something, ladies and gentlemen, which you, unfortunately, from the Freedom Party of God, repeatedly represent in a polemic form, into the society of divisive forms, to the children of migrants. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Again a keyword from you! It's bad!]] We need more support teachers in this system and no less. We have to give these migrant children the opportunity to successfully complete our school system. If we implement your proposals, then the opposite would be the case, then we would have even worse results than we have in our current system. We have very, very many dedicated educators in our schools. We have educators who have great hopes of reform, who want to work in a new school. But at the moment it is that frustration is spreading. That's the problem. Unfortunately, the central problems that I have addressed earlier have not even been discussed in the last few weeks. We want well-trained people, we want these well-trained people to work in an intelligent and not in a stupid organization. We're ready to do that. That is why we also support the request for an extension of school tests, although we have, of course, made many critical points in the Committee on Education. But it's a way of bringing new momentum to school. That's where we support you. But, please, the reform is to be made bigger. We need a national education summit, we need a national consensus on the essential issues of our education system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9216	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9237	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler, on the current debate, although I am soon glad to come back to the subject matter, because it was indeed, as you have described it, also soberingly and tiringly for me to discuss here for eight weeks and to go from a point I mentioned in an interview, which was later a bit distorted; but I do not want to talk about it for long now. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because you failed the Federal Chancellor! That was the reason!]] For me, it was always clear that the budget without structural reform would lead to a reduction in education. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Now there is no structural reform!]] In other words, the budget needs support through additional reforms, through additional funding. My proposal – and I say this quite clearly, and I really thank everyone who supported me – was a different one from the one that was finally fixed as a government line yesterday, even because the trade union was very massively opposed and, of course, the line within the Federal Government was quite different, I say it was a long time. Why am I standing here defending this budget and the decision? – The answer is very simple: For 2009 and 2010, educational projects are secured, the education policy course is guaranteed. [[Abg. Scheibner: But the taxpayer can pay the bill!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz refers to an article in the “Standard”]] I would like to stress now – I know you will find again criticism points – that we now have a package of measures – and I say this now with the agreement of the trade union, you know it and I know it – to which teachers contribute € 190 million by reducing a long list of allowances. Teachers are really making a contribution that we should recognize and appreciate. This is important to me. Financial spaces of €42.5 million are available for 2009 and 2010 if you decide so that the budget accompanying laws are prepared. In comparison, it was € 0 eight weeks ago. That's the basis, that's the basis I want to work on. I can assure you, too, that I am always pleased with support, that you are also experiencing this in the teaching committee. Within the government, it is often not so easy to define the education policy course as well. I don't think we need to talk about that. You will experience it in the speeches, you will experience it in the debates. I can only say – and I repeat what I said in the teaching committee, Mr Walser: I will fight as long as I see an opportunity to contribute to the fact that, just as you have formulated it, we are making a lot more just for the students, making them better for the teachers, who are certainly very strong – and I am personally sorry – because of the debate, where we have to do everything we can to motivate and find positive energy. This must be the basis of this draft law, which you, honourable Members, have here: New secondary school, expanding the 10-percent limit. I am very pleased that this will succeed, because this allows the dynamic federal states, Vorarlberg, but also the Burgenland, to expand the locations now. That's the central point. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Can you see differently too!]] The second point is the BIFIE evaluation. I am glad that we are also discussing the evaluation in Parliament, and that we agree on the evaluation criteria. Because what will happen in autumn 2012? . We will have to make a decision whether we, I personally say: at last, design secondary level 1 differently, redesign or not. Because it cannot be the vision of the future, in all consent to diversity, that we now have three different types of school in secondary education. That's the way. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: That's the logical consequence!]] For me, it is also essential – and we have discussed this in the Committee on Education – that we have clarity in the votes. I consider a two-thirds majority among the different school partners to be important, then we save ourselves debates and criticisms in retrospect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And it is yours, Mr Walser, that Mr Rosenkranz, too, has stressed the fact that the debate on the subject has taken place over the last few weeks. Sure, right. It was de facto a dispute between the service provider and the service provider. That was the central point. As I said, I am also personally pleased if we are now moving forward again in content, and would be very welcome, you are the chairman of the Committee on Education, if we also held this debate with experts in the Subcommittee of the Teaching Committee. The next major issues will be on us, the first national educational report, which, as I believe, would be well suited, but I have no proposals to make here, but of course also the evaluation of the New Secondary School. It is about bringing more children to higher education. We also need to better prepare education and vocational decisions. I would like to remind you of your last request, which we have discussed here. It is about the high drop-out quotas and, of course, about improving the school climate. As far as the current proposal is concerned. I am very pleased if you support him and I am now looking forward to an intensive phase of the content debate. If the budget is decided by you in the same way as it is presented, I can only say: The way is free that we now go a bit into the content and implementation again. – Thank you to all those who support me.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9339	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. – Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9360	Ladies and gentlemen! The starting point of our debate today is that we have recently passed a law, namely the law governing the New Secondary School. Novelling today. This can have different reasons. In this case, today, it is a great joy that we need to innovation a law after a short time because of great success. We want to allow more opportunities for the New Secondary School to open up more opportunities, as the demand for this school model is very, very high among parents. The New Secondary School is a success model: From autumn this year, 20,000 children in Austria will be able to attend the New Secondary School at 240 locations. This is really a lot and a great success in the first run, Mrs Federal Minister, to whom I would like to congratulate you very warmly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At 240 locations this New Secondary School is offered, and at the great demand on the part of the parents, you can see how much the need for parents in our country is at an improved school, an optimal care for our children. And that's what we want to work on. The aim of the New Middle School is to join European standards in this way, so that we stop deciding which school future over 10 years of age can have, to decide at an age where this is not established, and that we really promote the children together for as long as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, for a number of reasons today, education policy is an important day of clarification, especially when we want to continue and want to continue the reform path that has been taken in education policy in the coming years. One important point that enables us to do so is the agreement reached by the Minister of Education last night with the trade union. My relief on this is great. The teacher strike will not take place. I am really relieved because we can now again talk about how we can improve the situation for the children and the situation in schools in such a way that the children will be better cared for and thus better start-ups. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also very relieved about this – and this has already been noted in recent weeks – that it has been done across parties to ensure that, even in difficult times, a budget is drawn up, in which education policy remains an important priority, which is also budgeted accordingly. And that really concerns the entire arch of education policy. This has to start and start with the early promotion of the children. There must be the many, many answers in school policy that we still have before us. This also concerns the field of higher education policy, where we want to ensure open access to higher education and achieve better facilities for universities. We are currently negotiating a UG-Novelle with Minister Hahn, in which we want to improve the situation for students. This path of reform, which will cover all areas and will also cover, must start with the smallest ones in early promotion. This is so important because you can work very well with the little ones in playful form, promote them accordingly and save them a lot for later when you start in time. That is why I am very pleased that, together with Mrs. State Secretary Marek, important steps are now being taken to implement the mandatory last kindergarten year, free kindergarten year. This will be offered throughout the country and will be a very important step in early promotion. Here, of course, Vienna is a real pioneer. In Vienna a free kindergarten is offered all day for all children, for the 0- to 6-year-olds all-day – a real milestone, an important step. In school, through the agreement reached by the Federal Minister today, the budget has made it possible to continue the reform process which she has taken. We will continue to work to have smaller classes, to improve children in smaller groups, to care for and to promote individually, to further develop day care, to expand language promotion, to further expand the teaching project with Matura, which is very important in order to guarantee permeability in the education system, to expand vocational orientation in schools. It is also very important to support the children, who are already in schools, to make their most important choice of life in terms of further education and careers. There are €600 million for the better facilities of the students, and we also want to start a new teacher training: new teachers for the new school in new times. You see, ladies and gentlemen, today's agreement and the priorities set in the budget have also opened the way for us here in the House to continue working on important educational reforms, to work towards the best opportunities for our children. And that really is one of the most important tasks we have here in the house.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9451	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9473	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rosenkranz, you have mentioned in your speech, among other things, that taxpayers are those who are asked to pay for the cash in the adopted package of measures. Yes, do you not believe that taxpayers are willing to invest in the Austrian education system? [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a “desire”! People don't know where to go with their money!]] Mr Pröll, Minister of Finance, said today: The right education policy decides on the opportunities we open up to our children and young people for the future. – I am convinced that Austrian taxpayers are happy to open up to children and young people the opportunities that the Austrian education system can offer. I therefore also think it is very important that education is one of those areas in which clear priorities are placed in the budget presented today. Education has also been a priority in the political debate in recent weeks. However, it was a very short debate, which has by no means fulfilled the importance of education. Unfortunately, the debate on education has been reduced over the last few weeks rather than a hottest against teachers and the deterioration of their work. Teachers were accused of not being solidary in the crisis because they were not willing to work two hours more. But is it solidarity if some teachers work more on the one hand, so that 10,000 teachers become unemployed on the other side? My understanding of solidarity is different. For me, it is especially important in the crisis to keep people in employment. And in the field of the private sector, we are very successful in doing this: We invest public funds in short work. In the field of education, should we suddenly do the opposite, and in the field of education should we destroy jobs? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs Minister, would you have destroyed jobs? Bad Minister!]] This is not my understanding of social justice, because more social justice means finding new access to education and work for me. This is for me the real social question of this century. Only those who allow each individual the opportunity for education and work will create the prerequisite for a life of self-determination. I am glad that we could now offer these opportunities to the young teachers who are in temporary employment conditions and who have to tremble as to whether their deadlines are still being extended. Mr Stadler, you have said that the ÖVP only protects the property of privileged people. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] – Faith You, the young teachers who are in temporary contracts, are by no means one of these privileged ones. This must be protected, and we have succeeded in this package of measures. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now they are transformed!]] I would like to thank the trade union for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are now being pragmatized!]] In addition, She also today – that's already a little dry down, because it always comes back – calls the teacher union a concreteist. It's really dry and old. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a fact description!]] [[Abg. Petzner: This is the truth!]] Finally, you should note that teachers and teachers have moved very well in this package of measures. Mr Amon has presented to us what measures are being implemented in the framework of this package of measures in order to meet the financial needs announced by Mrs Schmied. Because of this package of measures, there is no doubt that teachers are not mere empressors. Ms. Federal Minister Schmied also mentioned the contribution of teachers to this package of measures of € 190 million. - And that's where you want to say they're not moving?- Oh, my God! So I think this is a really great contribution and would like to thank all teachers for being willing to make this contribution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: “Durfful applause at the ÖVP” I put on record!]] In general, however, I am glad that this debate on savings has now ended and that we can therefore finally enter into a debate on the further development of the education system as outlined by my colleague Amon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9614	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9635	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! This is perhaps a coincidence that we will hold an educational debate on the day of the budget speech. But since that was the dominant topic in the past, that's all right. From my point of view, I would like to make a few points, namely, in the right direction, and I would like to address one or another, what one or another has said, and ask Mrs Bundesminister Schmied: How long have you been talking about structural reforms, but don't make them? - That's the core topic. I assume that there is an enormously high educational budget in Austria, and also in international comparison, we are at the forefront of our educational budget, which we adopt every two years and every two years, but the subject that is very busy with us is: The money we invest doesn't matter where it should be! In Austria, we have a huge structural problem, not only for a year, for two or three years, but for a very long time: We urgently need an administrative reform, we urgently need a reform of the school administration in Austria – the millions and billions are in it, without really arriving where they belong – so that school will be happy again, both the students, the teachers and the parents! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Petzner]] Mr Walser may now vote in favour. – I share your Do not compare at all if you blacken up on one side here from the speaker's desk and say that the FPÖ split society because of its attitude toward migration. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: That's understandable!]] Not the one or the one who addresses a problem that is obvious, namely immigration, integration and migration, is the one who divides society, but those who separate society, who look away from this problem! There you are one of the best walkers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Rosenkranz has said very correctly that they train their children in elites, the green politicians, and not only in the free movement, in private schools in general. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Don't talk nonsense!]] – That would be an issue; we will highlight it very carefully. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: We give all children a chance! Allen!]] In a comparison of the time when we are today – admittedly in a financial and economic crisis to a great extent; we cannot yet know where the journey is going in one form or another – please note that it is not comparable to the period after 1918, after a lost world war – except for an eternal yesterday as you may be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Oha!]] At that time there were hundreds of thousands of war invalids, then a whole state collapsed – these were already other conditions. But you heard it: It's the teacher who talks about you. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: I'm not ashamed of it!]] On the one hand, you are doing lobbying policy for the free carrier unions and on the other side of the ÖVP you are posing lobbying policy. They are someone who distributes censorships according to moral standards and ideology standards, which I do not share. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is it for a “structural reform” that is proposed to us today by the government, which reads: Discount, school autonomous days are deleted, BIG-Mites are postponed!Unknown term type: "%s".? Is the educational resort the only resort to pay BIG rents? Is there any equal treatment? I will now also ask for the same thing for the universities, who also need a lot, a lot of money, much more than the government wants to make available to them. But that's just a push-out if you don't pay the BIG-Mites for the first time. I have been very slow to suspect that in two years' time this government has been passed by its government order and therefore no longer in five-seasonal areas that you have decided – that was a great reform! – but only think more in two-year cycles. [[towards ÖVP and SPÖ]] This is the essential: They make policy for the moment and call it structural reform! Age part-time model for teachers. – Yes, well, but this is now a reform, while there are hundreds, thousands of people who feel that teachers are working too little?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Thanks to your propaganda!]] In this way, you do not argue against it, but you actually put another point on it: Part-time models that teachers can retire earlier and work less from a certain age. Delete in return As of 2013, you will have the hackler scheme, starting at a time when 45 years in some professional sectors are really enough. – This is an imbalance we show. To transform temporary service relations into unlimited service relations is not a structural reform. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A structural reform would be: At last, reform school administration, depoliticisation of this profession. You're the example you're talking about. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Walser]] How many teachers do we have time for politics, but no more time for children? Why are there only more unit lists, i.e. ÖVP lists, for personnel representation elections in Lower Austria? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – Because no more teachers dare to support a different list. This profession is depoliticized! Motivated teachers then receive, if you have reliable framework conditions, a uniform teacher training if you are finally dealing with violence prevention as a major topic in schools, a fair salary system and a functioning integration. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] In this way we can create a “better school” – but not with such measures, all of which are promises for the future and also mean a blank check for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9798	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9820	Highly esteemed ministers on the government bank! Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! I am speaking today as one who has worked in the teaching profession for almost 37 years, and I know exactly what has been done in our school system, also in the education of schools, in recent years and decades, how many so-called reforms have been introduced to us. That is why I have put great hopes in my political activity and also in Mrs Federal Minister Schmied when she took over this place. I have always listened very much when she spoke of the modernisation of our education system, of the need to make the education system fit, and I very much hope that during the current negotiations she will not only find beautiful words but will remain steadfast and will also implement things. But, Mrs. Federal Minister, I have to tell you, you really fell down! You have fallen down and have actually lost the right for me to say that you want to actively shape the future of education. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What has happened in the last eight weeks has really been a witness to poverty for education policy, because we have not come forward in education policy, but have returned. [[Abg. Weinzinger: There is nothing better than to stutter around in open wounds!]] It was a pure, exclusive-time and stand-by debate. You said today, Mrs Minister, that you had a different access. I also feel that I am very honest that you trust to say this here – we would have supported you in this, as my previous speaker Ewald Stadler has already said! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We would still do it!]] We have always supported you when it came to the “teaching with Matura” that has been tested and implemented in Carinthia. We have always supported you in reducing the maximum number of students. We have supported you at the compulsory kindergarten year. – But now, one can say, many reforms you are still planning are history. Especially inconspicuous, I have to say honestly, in these last eight weeks really was the attitude of the FPÖ – the ÖVP, excuse. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: The FPÖ, too, that's right!]] I say it again: the attitude of the ÖVP, an EIA that really closes its eyes to a reform of education, an EDP that has no interest in a genuine educational policy debate, which is exclusively on the side of the blockers and trade unionists, and which has caused the Minister, including her Federal Chancellor, to rise up to the last point: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Before every reform!]] How's that going? How's it going? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is really bad for the future; Bad is also expected for all dissatisfied other groups of the public service. You will simply strike, strike, strike, and then you will achieve that. That's what I'm asking myself: What you need a government for if you can solve everything on this level according to old-coalition patterns: Entering money into a system that is expensive but little efficient, which requires a lot of input, but little output!Unknown term type: "%s".? The health insurance package would be comparable. It is put money into the sick cash registers, but no structural reform is made. This is similar in education reform. Mrs Federal Minister Schmied, I am really disappointed! We would have supported you in increasing the teaching time by two hours. We have always said: with accompanying measures, with accompanying measures such as better working conditions for teachers in the workplace school, discharge of teachers from administrative activities for more educational work and a uniform right of service and remuneration. What is now available is something where far-sightedness and courage for the future are missing, and ultimately the token must pay the children, the young people, the parents, but above all also the dedicated teachers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Vice-Chancellor Pröll said today that the budget was a fight against the crisis. – The educational budget is a battle against education reform! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot continue in terms of education, the most important investment in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9920	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9942	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Many of us are parents, and for eight weeks now, since the Ashindi Wednesday, we have experienced an untold dispute, which essentially had nothing to do with education policy and education reform at all. This is a tremendous opportunity not to have discussed progress for eight weeks, questions, the important future measures, but to have a hidden budget dispute which is the only one that can be seen in the future. Children's and young people's backs have been carried out. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is not only your fault, Mrs. Federal Minister, but it is primarily the fault of a Minister of Finance and of a Chancellor who, in Sunday's speeches, as we have heard today, for example, the budget speech, repeatedly tighten up such keywords as: Education is important, children are our highest good, no one is left in the rain, absolute priority!, and then send you into a dispute with a budget, at the end of which there is only loser from my point of view, from our point of view and especially from the point of view of parents and young people. First of all, you have to explain what is actually the core of this package of measures. You are talking about structural measures, you are talking about reasonable savings – the essential core is a support of rents! And now please explain to me: What does “hours ” mean? – “Hours” means the payment is postponed. Does that mean that in 2011 schools will pay double rent? What does this package mean? What about the education budget? Okay, you're putting out the rents now, which is the essential part of your structural reform, but: What is it then? What does this have to do with structural measures? What does this have to do with progress in education reform? – Nothing under the rule! In addition, the economic policy is a massive problem, because the Federal Property Society currently needs every euro for economic policy measures: for buildings, for renovations, for thermal renovations. So what kind of logic is this, what does it have to do with education policy? - Nothing. This is a poverty testimonie for an eight-week incessant battle, in which you, too, did not hesitate to hide enemy images, to work with clichés. One has worked with surveys in the population, with the cliché of the lazy teacher/teacher, and I find this unnecessarily. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In every professional group there are more people involved and fewer people involved – but serving on the back of the engagements of such clichés is inconceivable. This morning we heard: no enemy images, it's all in the green area, we all had to deal with the crisis together – and then you're dealing with such a fight, such a crisis with classic role-klile, with classic enemy images, with the classic cliché of the lazy teacher! The result is not enough from my point of view – and not only from my point of view, but also from today’s point of view – in the sense that we have not taken a single step forward in the reform of education, which is necessary. That's also the bitter thing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You, Mrs Minister, have not taken the opportunity today to explain a little more how this really works. The rent is initially expensive, and you are talking about structural reform. But what about the many recommendations for structural schooling, for example, with the school administration? The Court of Auditors has proposed a long period of action, but for this there is a working group that meets club members, so this area is completely out of place. Alone in Vienna: 40, 50 million € in the area of school administration. This might have been structural measures, but that has also been ruled out. What's really supposed to help – apart from the fact that parents are driving away again in May on weekends, on holiday weekends, can spend three or four days together in beautiful weather – what sense should it have in mind to remove these days off, mostly the Fridays? What this has to do with quality, education reform, I think you have to explain in addition. It is unfortunate that our education system has so great weaknesses. If Austria has a problem somewhere, this is really the education system. Years of caputt-sparing course; we remember the budgets of Gehrer and Consortia, which essentially prevented the international connections. We must strive to restore the international connection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The budget proposal and the budget speech today and also the responsibilities of these two gentlemen, whom you, Mrs Minister, have failed to meet with these budget targets, show us essentially: Education is just as important to us as anything else. She is supposed to cope with her budget; she is now her own Minister of Finance. – The huge challenge, these resources, 8,000 young people who are thrown into the labour market each year without completion, 140 million who still have to pay for private remedial assistance, all these treasures that are to be raised here are simply not kept in mind, all these people are still being abandoned. This is also the point where the budget speech clearly meets the truth, namely: All these keywords will then, if they become concrete, as now in education, exclusively for Sunday's speeches and have nothing to do with reality and with real timetables for the future at all. And unfortunately this is very, very depressing and unfortunate. In summer it was said that the most important thing for the SPÖ was education. Well, now it says: Okay, we're going to do it, we're going to move our rental payments up to 2011 and hope that maybe we won't be in the government anymore! – This soup will have to be put out: the students, the parents, the teachers. In 2011 they pay the double rent. This is your proposal today – to the applause, I think, is not appropriate. On the contrary, this is rather a depressing assessment of an educational dispute which has not led us further on in the most important question of Austria, namely in the educational debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10042	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10063	Mr President. High house! I join the long list of those who are glad that the discussion, the debate, could end shortly before midnight. I have now deliberately chosen the neutral term “debate” because I believe that we should keep in mind that this is a matter of finding a solution to budgetary challenges within a department. It was not the task of this debate to bring about a reform of education, but it was the task of meeting budgetary challenges. It is necessary to discuss in retrospect how this debate has taken place in the public debate, because this, in the end, has undoubtedly made the talks difficult, but we are glad that we have come to a conclusion. I am also glad that at the end of the day the head of government entered and participated in the negotiations. Mr Stadler is not in the hall at the moment, but in Austria, the Federal Chancellor does not yet have a directive competence, which the Federal Chancellor has in Germany. Perhaps as far as the competence of the directives of individual countries is concerned was the wish of the father of the thought, but in Austria we do not have that yet, and I think that is also good. This is where responsibility lies with the relevant department directors. Now we have a result, and I think it's a result that's borne out that everyone had to contribute a little bit and not just a small one. If today was often the talk of it and is that the teachers were so incredibly successful, then I may point out to you that from the list of points that led to the result are 75 percent contributions of teachers. [[Abg. Brosz: That's not true!]] Look at this! [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] Secondly, it was possible to achieve a result because, in its dimension of looking at the federal budget law for four years, we took the basis – that has not long been stated – and in this way it was and is possible to represent a budget. It is also not true that now the entire BIG-Mites are being spanned or postponed, but only a part of them, not even 50 percent per year. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: But who pays this?]] So this is something that can be presented budgetly over a longer period of time, because the negotiation of a new right of service and remuneration is also part of the agreement. In addition, we have a demographic development among teachers, which also enables perspectives here. As I said, it is crucial to use the Federal Budget Act with its possibilities to look at a four-year period, and in this context was and is the result of which all had to make their contribution. But now that this has been clarified – and I am actually with all my previous speakers – we should actually turn to a real educational debate. Only what I have heard many times today was, in turn, only to do so almost linearly on structures. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: You didn't listen to that!]] I'm thinking about what the Finns showed us. They took 15 years. We don't have that much time, but you have to take a little time to get a quality result. [[Abg. Oillinger: ÖVP has taken a long time!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: How much time does ÖVP want to take?]] Therefore: No one of us – I believe we should put all our ashes to the head, Mr Walser – has so far asked the question we should, I believe, ask ourselves consensually: What are at the beginning of the 21st century? The challenges and needs of society to a modern education system in the 20th century? What are the needs of students? What do we need, what is necessary in view of a situation in which the knowledge in the world is becoming more and more potent in a few years, in which we have an internationalization in which we have to deal with and deal with migration effects, in which we have social diversity and diversity in which we have challenges in the sector of a variety of new media? To that end, we need to give answers: How do we learn? How do we need to design the skills and skills to deal with this diversity of knowledge? – In contrast to the one hundred years ago today, it is no longer the issue that knowledge is not available, but the question is: What basis of knowledge do we need to make the knowledge of the world useful if we need it there and there? If we here – and I believe that we can find this consensus – we come to a uniform view, then the next step is to discuss the necessary structures, from the youngest child to the university sector; Tag: Lifelong learning. It is not only about getting out of secondary level 1 but also about the entire range, especially with the challenges of transitions. That we have this discussion, I would like it to be, and I believe that we are prepared by the government to do so. For my part of the tertiary sector, I can say that, on the basis of the needs of a total Austrian university plan, we will start with summer, just for the tertiary sector, to address this question, and I think that I am with Claudia Forging a sense that this should also take place for the area of under 18-year-olds. If we come to a similar view here, then we should discuss structures, organizational forms, in good sense, comply with what is also true of the economy, namely that the structure of the strategy should follow, and not, as God unfortunately often does, that the strategy follows the structure. Today, I have found that we are often again in this case in the debates, to talk about structures and to deliver strategies afterwards. Let us answer the questions: What are the challenges to a modern education system? What does school have to think of – what, honestly, the old Romans have already found and what is of a timeless validity – that one should learn not for school, but for life? As a result, the question should be asked: What does life need and therefore what does the school have to offer in order to adequately prepare people? The fact that knowledge of work creates that education is, as it were, the most essential resource of a society becomes evident when we look at unemployment statistics: Only 1.9% of graduates were unemployed last year, only 0.4% of graduates were unemployed, but nine times more graduates with only one compulsory school certificate were unemployed as graduates of higher education. This shows us that we have to invest in education. This has been done by this Federal Government, and even if we have to look at how we use the funds optimally – it has often been pointed out by speakers of the opposition today that there is not so little money in the education system, and now more than two billion in the next two years – it is nevertheless important to keep looking at how we can make optimal use of these funds. However, the debate in recent weeks and months has also shown that a wide-ranging educational reform, as I have just outlined, cannot be carried by a person and a party, but must be carried by a far greater consensus, by a far wider basis. In any case, I invite you from my wait. We will make our contribution in the scientific sector, we will also contribute, and we will do so in a joint working group, for example, with regard to teacher training. But I think it is crucial that we first answer the question on a broad basis: What do we expect from a modern education system? – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10163	Thank you, Minister of State. – Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10184	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Long and tough negotiations – and then a compromise tonight. I am glad that such a thing has come about, because this can finally bring about the overdue and highly necessary educational reform, and finally the Claudia Schmieds reform path can continue. Today's novel, which we are discussing here, provides for the extension of the New Secondary School and is to be welcomed from a political point of view, because, as the experience gained since the introduction, the New Secondary School has been very positively accepted by parents and children and also by teachers. Individualization, promotion of the talents and input into the unique talent of each individual child, this concept is forward-looking, ladies and gentlemen – no, it is not forward-looking, it is actually imperative for a good education of our children. This common middle school is so important because it takes away the pressure from children, parents and teachers to decide about a child aged nine or ten years, about which school career this child should take. Today we demand a lot of young people: They are supposed to be capable of teamwork, they should be critical, they should be creative, flexible and above all they will be able to solve the major problems of our society in the future. But this will only be possible if they learn to recognize and use their resources, their talents, and if the system leaves them when we let them, when we promote them, ladies and gentlemen. This requires smaller classes, it requires individual promotion, a school opening, language early promotion and much more. One area in which these key qualifications and skills are very important is cultural education, which can and must have its place in a modern school system. I would like to quote the famous and famous conductor Sir Simon Rattle, who formulated this very nicely. He says: “With regard to our education, it becomes very clear that society is changing: We no longer need the model in which there are a thousand obedient workers bees and a bee queen. Everyone in the industry tells me we're raising the young people for today's demands. We don't need people thinking in straight lines. We need people looking over their plate edge, we need people who make connections, surprising connections. This is the area in which the arts are superior, in which art and education can give more in any relation than any other discipline.” That is why, ladies and gentlemen: Let us take the next steps – quickly and without hesitation, it is important – towards a modern education system for our youth! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10231	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10254	Mr President. Minister! High house! As a member of Vorarlberg, I am of course particularly pleased that we are changing the school organisation law today. So now this rigid 10-percent rule for school or model tests should be loosened at compulsory schools. This means that an overrun in a federal state will be possible on request – now for Vorarlberg – if the model test classes do not cover more than 10 percent of all classes throughout Germany. The Neue Mittelschule in Vorarlberg is well known for its extraordinary interest. In particular, we have made use of the possibility of applying for different models for the further development of schools. Students, students, teachers and parents have made their way together, developed their models and then agreed to the introduction of a model experiment. There's a lot of work, there's a lot of innovation and a lot of persuasiveness behind it. Can one say, then, that they will not be in the new school model, unfortunately, because this 10 percent cover has already been exceeded? - No! The outrage would have been quite great. Well, we have different models specifically tailored to the respective school locations. For this reason, it is very important that these pilot experiments in the context of their support and evaluation are also accompanied scientifically – we have also tabled a motion for a resolution by the government parties – precisely because these models are very different. We want an honest assessment at the end of the school trials, which is why scientific support in this federal law is also ensured. It is important that school systems are further developed and adapted to the needs of those concerned. With the New Vorarlberger Middle School we took the right steps in the country. To question this project now due to budget discussions would indeed have been the wrong signal. The fact that until now 23 schools in Vorarlberg want to participate in the New Middle School and implement 51 schools with the partner schools of this model from autumn also proves the great acceptance of the parents, but also the educators. The discussion with the positive development of schools has initially brought new momentum, has brought a large portion of euphoria and motivation to the individual school locations. Unfortunately, this swing was destroyed by the disgusting two-hour multi-work discussion for teachers, and anger, anger and disappointment of teachers took place. We all know: Depressed teachers are the worst teachers, but we need the best teachers for our children, because children are our future. Thank God there has now been a way of working together tonight, and I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the condition of this comparison. Of course, I thank you very much for the solidarity of the teachers. Mr. Stadler – he's not here now – has said here that the vice chancellor has nothing left for education. [[Abg. Grosz: (in the empty space next to itself significant) But!]] [[Abg. Grosz: He's so afraid of you, that's why he's not there!]] On the contrary! Our Vice-Chancellor has education as a priority in the budget. There is 1 billion € more by 2013, which means 1 000 € more per child in the coming years. It is already the case that we must put the children, the pupils at the centre of our efforts. This is our most important goal, and I believe that we can be sure that we will make sure that the more money will also bring more quality to schools.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10309	Mr Vilimsky came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10330	Mr President. High house! Allow me, after the fairy tale of the Minister of Finance, to make a few clarifications here. First: What came out yesterday as a nocturnal agreement between the government and the trade unionists is anything but an agreement in the sense of a reform drawer, but it is no longer a small budget trick, by which the funds to be transferred from the BIG school unit are spent for two years and teachers lose a little of their allowances, which you are celebrating as a great reform here. Mrs. Minister, who no longer attends the debate, has jumped as a lion, unfortunately in the wrong direction, and ended up as a bedhead. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am also concerned about the style of politics that has taken place. [[Ironic call for call for calls at ÖVP and Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: All right. That's incredible!]] Mr President, do you perhaps have a few Sackerln Baldriantee for your parliamentary group? It wouldn't be bad. It is the style that has been taking place since your new chairman, Mr Faymann, was at the head of the government. Let us take the example school, where 120,000 educators are directed, just work two hours – in parentheses: four hours, including the preparation time – without somehow arguing with the quality of education, but only by rolling the whole over the quantitative side. This brutality in dealing with the people concerned exists in many areas: This is in the field of teachers where the SPÖ is addressing the discussion in a completely new quality of a low point, but also in the field of the ÖBB, where one of the first measures of Mr Faymann has added two new holding boards to the board. If now, since this incompetent management of the ÖBB accounts for millions of bonuses for the production of 900 million in debt, the small rail workers and the other small workers of the ÖBB are looking through their fingers, then the SPÖ policy is expressed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Education is the subject!]] In the field of the ORF, it is also true that your approach to reform Austrian broadcasting is simply to shave away management, put 1,000 employees at the doorstep, and to intervene in the opposition and other groups of influence from the bodies that have to decide on the future of the ORF. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Is there anything else for education?]] You can continue this, for example, you can also talk about the AUA, where the board gets millions of waste and the staff stays on the track. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: No, no! We want schools!]] One can argue with the ASFINAG, where Mr Faymann has shaved everyone away, only with the aim of installing his party guests. [[He-Rufe des Abg. Parent]] [[Abg. Donabauer: Mathias Reichhold!]] You can do this new non-quality – calm down! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You can get out of here afterwards. This new non-quality of SPÖ is noted that the Austrian generality gives a cry for help, as the German army is no longer able to carry out its duties, and Defense Minister Darabos then misses the Austrian generals a muzzle and requires them to keep silent. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Please refer to Agenda item 2!]] In the same way, in the field of school, where you go over with incredible brutality over the Austrian educators, you do not want to acknowledge that there are also incredibly many dedicated teachers who have to prepare themselves in their spare time, that the whole school has developed into a problem field, because in the last decades you have increasingly cataclysed the school with your ideological ideas, for which the teachers now have the token to pay, and with the teachers the children and with the children the parents. – That’s a wrong policy you’re on the way with. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can simply summarize your policy: Everyone loses in this republic. Only one is collected, and that's the banking sector. [[Abg. Grosz: And the Lord Neugebauer!]] And if you do not link up this bank package and lead other groups of people, there will be much more problems. That must be the approach to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10518	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10540	Mr President. High house! When I looked down earlier, I thought: A picture says more than a thousand words. Neugebauer's about blacksmith. [[Call the BZÖ:Forged flees! It's good, too!]] Yeah, I'm worried. Why did Mrs. Minister leave? Maybe she made her promise? Has she implemented her own words? What did she explain a few weeks ago? – ‘Forge threatens to withdraw.’ “My resignation would then be the consequence.” In these words, Minister of Education Claudia Schmied threatens to withdraw from politics if the structural measures she requires – in concrete terms: the extension of the teaching obligation for teachers by two hours – do not come. The consequences would be, according to the Minister of Education, that the initial school reform – small classes, German funding courses, day care, the New Middle School – should be withdrawn and teachers released. That is exactly what the Federal Ministers have predicted. I hope it is not the case that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs is now actually suffering the consequences. [[Call the FPÖ: Here it is!]] [[Abg. Grosz: She's already here! Say hello to God, Mrs. Minister!]] I'll remind you of that. But, in reality, the Minister for Education is sorry. I am personally sorry because a woman in this Federal Government has never been presented by a men's giant as she is now the Minister of Education. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: She can give up on that!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] I'm surprised that women are aging there. It was probably their sympathy that their own comrades also left them in the rain. The sufferers of this unworthy spectacle, however, are our children, are the education system and are, above all, the teachers, because it is only a Pyrrhus victory that they have now won. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Who won? – The union is strengthened. Their working time plan has been completely reduced by the trade unions. Education is weakened. – I cordially congratulate you! Mrs Federal Minister Schmied, you should actually think of the analyses and contributions of your own experts today, if, for example, school expert Andreas Salcher notes that this is not an educational reform, which is what has been negotiated here, is called more money for a bad system. Her coordinator for the PISA test, Ms Koenne, says that this is not at all a reform. The point is that an improvement for pupils is not to be seen in this agreement. “If the same teacher works seven days more in the same organization, it is not in principle an improvement of the school system, but that’s more of the same.” – And the same is bad as we found. Ladies and gentlemen, this PISA expert also says that the school system is “an expert organisation in which good and smart experts work in a stupid organization”. If Mrs Bundesminister takes her own school experts seriously, she simply has to find that what she has achieved is not a success, and then she has to think about it. First, the ÖVP-Obmann has fueled the debate with his savings targets. Then she comes with a reasonable proposal. It is strengthened by the opposition of the back, and now it has fallen down in all points. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The speech is over!]] [[Abg. May. Gäßner: Move!]] Mrs Bundesminister Schmied, if You still have a spark of self-esteem if you still want to be taken seriously in the future, then take your own words
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10650	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10665	Then take your own words seriously, and pull the consequences!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10692	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10714	Mr President. Minister for Education! I would like to take a brief look at what has happened in Austria in recent years on education policy. When I came to Parliament in 1999, Minister of Education Gehrer started a phase that will probably go into history as the decade – or almost a decade – of saving education. It was clear from all international comparisons that educational expenditure in Austria has fallen dramatically. I recommend looking through OECD statistics, where Austria has dropped below the average from one of the leading countries in education expenditure. After the 2006 election, the announcement was made that this course would be changed in the coming years. There were many announcements and a concrete measure which was implemented relatively quickly at the time and which we also very much supported, namely the beginning of the reduction of the maximum number of students in compulsory schools. In the previous school year in the first classes and in this school year in the second classes, the number of students has been reduced to 25 or at least the resources have been provided. What happened now? If we look at what money you are talking about, namely of these 525 million, then most of it is necessary to continue this project in order to be able to reduce the number of school students in the third and fourth classes in the next two years and then to have 25 as the maximum number of students in compulsory schooling in Austria throughout the year! What happened to the budget debate? – That the Finance Ministers and apparently the Chancellor have said that the money is no longer available. This project is called into question, and you either succeed in various measures – you then apparently came up with the idea of increasing the teaching obligation – to raise the amount of money, or the number of students will remain high or increase again. That was the starting position. This is not yet an educational reform of the system we have, but an important step that can be taken with it, but far from what is necessary for a reform of education. I would also like to remind you that at the time you promised that something would happen in higher schools. At no higher school the number of students has been reduced. You know that as well as I do. We asked the teaching committee if something was planned in this period – nothing! In the HTLs, in the commercial academies, in the higher schools, in the AHS upper level there are large classes. Every time a student group comes into the house from a higher school and I ask what has changed over the past two years, then the answer is: Nothing has changed. The school remained exactly as it was before. At last, it is up to us to start reforms. The higher schools have also earned smaller classes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister Hahn, who seems to be always pseudoly seated for the ÖVP on the government bank, has already left the hall. [[Abg. Grosz: lunch! They all need something for a “pappi” for lunch!]] But for stupid, he doesn't need to sell us here either. When I look at the measures that are precisely broken down here, I see that of the €525 million you need, €240 million comes from the fact that you don't pay for something somewhere and that you can't wait for something to happen, so that you don't know exactly when to pay anyone again – apparently budget-voodoo à la Pröll – and that another €100 million is to come from the fact that budget shifts take place in the resort, I think you should think about what that means. These €100 million seem to be the failure to invest in the school building sector. You've announced the big deal: 1 billion € in the next ten years, 100 million € per year will be invested. That's now deleted. That is to say, all that is needed for reforms has been cancelled next year: for example, the implementation of a full-day school-form possibility also in the structural field, the teachers' jobs we have been discussing for a long time - can you even do his work at 0.8 m2? – or the expansion of the school for the disabled. This reform, to say that the reform will continue, is already quite a courageous step. You really got in your knees. In the other area you have to say yes: You've got a little more money, and it's not clear who to pay with the BIG. I assume that it will ultimately mean more money for education. We support that, that is positive. Finally, to the few things that would actually be necessary: Where has something changed in the field of funding at schools? Is it not still that the problem is shifted to the parents, covering the whole? If not enough occurs, if there is a risk that a class needs to be repeated, the parents burn length times width for follow-up. We are talking about structural reforms, about education reforms. – But that was only a savings package and averting the worst, but not anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10761	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10783	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Strutz – he is coming back to the hall right now – that you are serving the topic of women in this discussion, I think, Chuzpe – a party that has two women in the group and which has one head of state Dörfler who, if I remember correctly, said he is so happy that his wife is at home and he cooks the “Brennessel soup” at night. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: He said: Women in the state government are lowering the level!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Is that bad? What do you have against a boiler soup? I'm gonna make myself a boiler soup tonight, too! It's healthy! Smearing!]] - If you do it yourself, I think it's good. You might be able to spend time more meaningfully. – But since you didn’t listen, I’ll tell you again: [[Abg. Grosz: Boiler soup is delacing!]] Kärntner's head of state, Dörfler, meant that we should keep the women out of politics. The BZÖ is going to skip this anyway, but that was the crucial message. And that in this context you have the chuzpe to serve the women's theme, I find more than odd. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: A women's theme is quite different, not what you are there!]] But back to the real topic. In recent times he has been trying quite a few times: John F. Kennedy has already said that there is only one thing in the world that is more expensive than education, and that is not education. [[Abg. Grosz: You didn't do it with the Obama either!]] That's right, education costs money. Education sometimes costs a lot of money, especially because it is personal-intensive, but society would definitely be more expensive, it would save on the skills opportunities, on the prospects for the future of young people. [[Abg. Grosz: Is that your virgin speech?]] An example of more opportunities for education, of more opportunities for the future, more skills is certainly this model of the New Secondary School, to which we decide today a novel. Let me say something about this from my own experience. It wasn't. New secondary school, but from the principle something similar, the form of an integrative teaching. In my class I had children with AHS maturity, children with primary school maturity, children with special educational needs and children with non-German mother tongue. In retrospect, this was certainly a success model, because the essential thing was that it came upon the mixture. However, we had excellent conditions. We were able to teach in the team, and we passed a subject canon. We have essentially done project teaching and station operation, with different tasks, and it has been shown that this form works. Perhaps one sometimes underestimates what children can learn from each other, for example. I remember when we introduced this model, there have always been these discussions about power hostility, uniformity and levelling down. For example, no one has seen that for children who are faster in a certain area, it is an excellent repetition, an excellent fortification when they once again explain this topic to other children. So the children are qualified so that they can learn much more from each other. That is why I would also like to speak to you, Mr Walser. It's not like there's only a stupid institution now, so to speak, and there's nothing going on in school. It is already happening enormously in innovation, in pedagogical things. In any case, you shouldn't let that go unmentioned. By the way, I am glad that we are deciding on this novel today because it is a success model, as my colleague Kuntzl has already said. It's a novel because there's been too much success, and I'm very glad. Coming to the end: Finally, I am glad that there is an agreement on the budget for education. I also found it unbearable, especially because of the fact that innumerable enemy images have been used by both sides. Many colleagues have told me that they no longer trust to say that they are teachers. You can laugh at it, but at least it reflects a climate in a society. I think enemy images and rhetorical upgrades need no one in our society. So I'm glad that we can now look back into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10920	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10941	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the visitor gallery and at home in front of the screens! High house! Now that my previous speakers, especially those of the opposition, have not even lost a word in the last 30 to 45 minutes on the original item on the agenda, namely on the amendment of the school organisation law, I can now return to the subject. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You know, the New Secondary School has been a medium-sized permanent burner especially in recent years. We can all remember the discussions very well. Today, an amendment to the School Organisation Act is again about the model tests of this New Middle School, but about a much less discussed matter. A flexibility of the percentage limit, which has so far been 10 percent of all public compulsory schools for each federal state, is to be decided. This border is now to be transferred to the whole federal territory, which can be specifically addressed to regional needs. Mr Anna Franz has already explained this for Vorarlberg. Another major change to the existing scheme concerns the monitoring and evaluation of the model tests of the New Secondary School. In the future, the model tests will be scientifically accompanied by a Federal Institute, the BIFIE, and evaluated in a four-stage process. A report shall then be submitted to the National Council every three years. The essential requirements for a modern school system continue to exist: the promotion and demand of each individual for inclination and talent, the freedom of choice for the parents, the type of school they visit their children, the evaluation of new school attempts, and finally – but now we are already in the middle of the current discussion – a constant development of the Austrian school system. But let me also say a few words about the current discussion: In times of lower tax revenue and rising public expenditure – and here especially in the health and social field – we are all – without exception all! – demands to discuss, reassess these and also to go new ways without delay for many years. It does not use anything and is even grossly negligent, as the opposition does to speak to the people after the mouth, to scatter them into the eyes of sand, to submit at every plenary session fifty requests with demands at billions and not even to have the approach of counter-financing. This is a non-responsible policy, and it is not possible to make a state. We are facing the biggest challenge of the Second Republic in the coming months and years, but some in the House still do not seem to be quite clear. We will not avoid breaking up structures and implementing in-depth reforms, even if they may be unpopular. Only in this way can the narrow social network in Austria be secured in the future. To this end, we also need a strong medium-sized enterprise, committed entrepreneurs, who will continue to invest in the site in the future and thus secure and create jobs. What we can't need right now are ideologically-led envy debates. But these do not help us to deal with the crisis at all, and creating images of enemies does not help us either. Yesterday it was the teachers, today it is the so-called rich, and who will be it tomorrow? Is it the migrants tomorrow, or is it the unemployed? In the interests of a solid, value-oriented society, let us neglect such jealousy debates! On this occasion, I should like to congratulate Mr Pröll on the success of creating a sustainable budget with the right priorities in such difficult times. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10990	Mrs Kitzmüller's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11013	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests and dear spectators! The planned novelle is just a drop on the hot stone. [[Abg. Grosz: A pot!]] - A drop! [[Abg. Grosz: Oh, that's it!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It does not change anything in the fundamentally missing school policy at all. There is no improvement to expect, the novelle is toothless, ladies and gentlemen, and this school policy is just a little cosmetic. In this large number of abuses to be criticized in school policy, 4 minutes of speaking time is very short, but I take a few examples out. Let us look at the school principal selection procedure, ladies and gentlemen: It is intended to find the highly qualified teacher, who is now to serve as Director. Now, if he is really lucky not to be party-politically selected, the children are also lucky if a highly qualified educator is actually sought. For the benefit of our children, this is very good, and in smaller schools it is also very favourable for a teacher because he is still allowed to teach. How does that look in larger schools? – There the highly qualified educator is not in place, because there he has only become a administrator. And in the opposite case: What does this look like if there is only one candidate in this school principal selection procedure? He can or cannot do what he wants – despite all of this, he will be selected as the headmaster, since there is only one candidate. Is this the way to be pursued in the future? Should the formation of our children, which is to be the highest good, be shrouded? Another example, ladies and gentlemen: Teachers who do not have their training and speciality in the subjects in which they have to teach, since, due to incorrect personnel policy, foreign subjects have to be taught in the department. If a teacher comes to the handcushion and is to teach a foreign subject, then the children are lucky, because this teacher is trying to do the same. How does that look? – Should a non-tested non-educated mathematics professor teach mathematics now, or according to physics or German? If that is the case, it is no question that a PISA study will result in a bad outcome. If a dedicated teacher is so thrown away, this is certainly not acceptable to the motivation. We have received a letter from a HS teacher who has been in school for 35 years. He reproaches the foreign-language students who have little knowledge of the German language and interfere with the rule teaching. And he proposes that these should be grouped into classes to teach them German and to make it easier for them to continue. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a problem that teachers in compulsory schools have today, and your task is to solve these problems as quickly as possible, rather than to push forward extravagant school attempts.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11070	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11093	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the school reform compromise is a bad compromise, and the Minister has actually failed. Let me take a look back over the last two months. ==References== 2. As a compensation for insufficient budget resources, Federal Minister Schmied announced an extension of the teaching obligation for all teachers by two hours a week. What follows is well-known: Teacher trade unions responded outragedly, service meetings were held, teachers wanted to strike, it was even the boycott of the PISA study in the room, et cetera. In mobilising participants to the teacher strike, the union is not narrow. This is the result of a staff representative's information paper to the teachers – I quote: “If individual colleagues do not wish to participate, they will of course be required to attend their school to the extent of their timetable.” And: “If teachers... want to be present, they should arrive at 7.15 a.m. so that the school gate can be closed.” Ladies and gentlemen, I have also mentioned this chronology in the light of the fact that the last two months have been a negative signal and a negative example of future negotiations, in whatever area. Above all, the EIA must be taken into account, because according to the motto: We strike if we don't get everything! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the current economic crisis, you have to explain to the population, you have to explain to the approximately 350 000 unemployed what you want to achieve, you have to explain to the over 47 000 short-time workers what you want to achieve; and They must offer a solution to young people who do not find jobs that do not find a job, just as do single fathers and mothers who do not know how to challenge their daily lives. Coming to Mrs Ablinger, who is no longer in the hall: We from BZÖ not only have good women in our ranks, we also have good solutions for Austria! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from the BZÖ have good solutions – especially in times of crisis – as evidenced by our application for the supplementary education law to play. The BZÖ solidarity model means that teachers undertake to teach in the last three weeks prior to school, i.e. in the main holidays, students who need re-help. In Austria, about 50,000 pupils are not satisfied in the annual certificate. The supplementary education required by the parents amounts to around € 140 million. Our BZÖ solidarity model After help relieves parents financially and means a substantial purchasing power strengthening of the families. Currently, an average follow-up time in individual lessons costs 30 €, in group lessons 15 €. If you count this up – 15 days to eight hours of lessons each – you can get 90 million euros in savings in group lessons, in individual lessons a relief of the parents of 180 million €. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I would like to appeal to you: Look It's exactly what you're doing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11173	Next is Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11194	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear visitors to the ranks and spectators behind the screens! – In front of the screens, thank you for the follow-up! [[Abg. Grosz: In front of the screens!]] But you know, this education system requires further assistance. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] The agreement, which was reached yesterday. After night, speakers of the government groups have already mentioned and celebrated here several times. An agreement – but what about? How do the details look? What is now about the problem that this education system is breaking down, that this education system does not really bring the desired successes that it needs to have been implemented? Everyone wants another school. We Greens have been demanding this for years. Everyone says this: the minister, the teachers, the parents, the experts. – Something else is missing! – Oh, yes, the students, exactly! And these students did not appear in the debate of the last few weeks. We do not forget them, and Peter Filzmaier said this morning in a radio interview, the students had the weakest lobby, the students did not happen in this debate. We now call for these to go back to the centre of the debate! It is about the future of our children and young people, which has already been said several times today, and that has been the case in recent weeks. But what exactly will this future look like? And: Which children and young people are meant to be? We all know that our current education system, beginning with kindergarten, continues to be sufficient through school and universities, continues and consolidates social inequalities, social injustices, which exist. This is why it is about resorting to these social injustices. We know, for example, that 79 percent of students who attend an AHS have parents with academic background, while only 10 percent of the children of parents who have only compulsory schooling visit AHS. There is therefore an urgent need for action. All international studies prove that social injustice can be remedyed by education. We are also talking about the so-called "education poverty" and that education is an essential factor in avoiding poverty. And I ask you, the government groups, and also you, Mrs Minister, together with your colleagues in the government, to put on the table a reform that will solve this problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I think there's another way to go. The last weeks have also shown – even though this has not been said often – that the government parties obviously also have a different perspective on it or have a different idea of what this “other school” should look like. If the Minister of Finance says today in the budget speech – I quote – that the right education policy on the opportunities of our children for the future is taking place and it is now time to get out of the figures for the children, then it is more than cynical, because one has to accuse this ÖVP Finance Minister that he has given you, the SPÖ Education Minister, a budget framework and then withdrawn from the debate by saying that everything else is the head of the department. However, he did not always stand out from the debate, but occasionally made escalating contributions to it, so to speak, to celebrate with the chancellor last night, so to speak, that he has contributed to a solution to this problem. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] I have to contradict Mrs Ablinger's report, and I have to thank Mrs BZÖ's colleagues: Of course, this also has a women's policy component. That is where you, the Minister for Education, should be more involved, and you should not let your colleagues in the government like this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11256	Mr Riepl is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11277	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are discussing the amendment of the School Organisation Act at this item on the agenda, and it is about more flexibility for school and model tests at compulsory schools. However, the debate over the last two hours has naturally and understandably been marked by the debate on the reforms in the field of education which are necessary. One thing, I think, is sure: The budget presented today by the Minister of Finance secures the reform path of Claudia Schmied, and I think that is a very important and clear statement that cannot be repeated often enough. Ladies and gentlemen! We are planning to get from a level of education with a level of reform to a high level of education with the best possible education for our children. I think that the focus of this high level of education is the Federal Minister, and the focus of a high, Mrs. Federal Minister, is usually the sun. For me, you are a bit like the sun in the further design of this educational project, which is necessary. What is the educational project? Smaller classes – it was started; Small-group education also in vocational schools is addressed; Day care, language support, New secondary school: 240 locations – it has already been said – are now, and hopefully it will become more; and: Teaching with Matura, a very important area for those who continue the course of education through education. So, after the teacher debate, it is now necessary to continue the educational reform consistently and with special commitment, to give gas, I would like to say, and not to let go of it anymore. Once more, I believe, it is appropriate to thank also the committed teachers who prove daily how well they can teach. The topic of class repetition has already been addressed. This is a topic for the future. If ten objects are taught, seven are positively completed and three negative, then, I think, one also has to find other ways of saying than the student or the student: Make the class again, because that costs a lot of money. 40 000 children are affected each year. The topic of promotion and funding courses has also been discussed. In my opinion, promotion belongs to school, promotion should not be carried out outside school. So there are approaches and opportunities and work enough in this field of education. If we know that in the first classes of vocational schools today a third of Students have not completed a positive ninth level, we must note that there is also a need for action in the field of compulsory schooling. Less bureaucracy, better teacher jobs, more school autonomy – all the questions to be addressed in this educational discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! For good social and economic development in our country, we need the best schools as well as teachers who are best selected, trained and promoted. – Mrs Federal Minister, you have my support!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11350	Next speaker: Mrs Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11372	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Musiol said earlier that everyone wants a ‘other school’ and probably means the whole school. – If you have meant this, I can only tell you that the ÖVP definitely does not want an overall school! We have agreed to the school effort of the New Middle School, and we have also agreed to offer the federal states the opportunity to adopt this model more strongly, knowing that not always the conviction of the best school model was the reason why this model was also approved in the final effect, but also had to deal with financial issues. However, I would also like to express our view that the Federal Minister said in the first place that her goal was to transfer the New Secondary School to the regular school system. – Mrs. Federal Minister, this is not about implementing the best model – we have not yet evaluated it, we have not even begun to evaluate it – but that would mean that you want to implement an ideological model. And the ÖVP definitely doesn't play with that! Ladies and gentlemen! We want the best schools for our children, for our young people. That's what we owe them. That is why I am sorry that educational debates do not take place in the public, in particular, when it comes to quality issues, when you think about content, but only when a PISA study is in progress and one speculates whether perhaps the lazy students have done bad work, or how we have experienced it in the past few days and weeks, about clarifying budgetary questions and presenting the teacher as an enemy. Ladies and gentlemen! It does not benefit the children and young people, but it also does not benefit the school system and also our political cores if we try to blame teachers to whom we entrust our children. That's not the case. Rather, it is our task to support teachers in such a way that they can best accompany children on their way of life from their competence and also from their ability of authority. Young teachers are committed, motivated and want to work for our children. This means, for us, that training must take place at a high level of education, but also in terms of content – a proposal that the EIA has already made for the future. We need a school in which performance counts, performance also counts when it comes to paying the teachers and Teacher goes. I would also like to express this as a call for concern when it comes to wage negotiations. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to discuss in the future more about the quality of schools – Federal Minister Hahn has outlined it – that we can make it possible to promote weak students and demand talented students. Education standards are a means of maintaining a good level in Austria. I invite you to continue to discuss this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11417	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11438	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The innovation of this school organization law is in my eyes, in our eyes it is actually only a tiny detail of a completely missing school policy, because what has happened here in recent months, especially in the last eight weeks, really is the ground of the barrel. The people, the students, of course – I see many of them at the top of the gallery – ask themselves, but also the teachers and parents of the countless students rightly, when at last an overall strategy, an overall plan in the field of education is created. It must be noted here that many teachers are dismotivated. They don't want to go to school in part – that was done to me. Students protest all over the country. We are de facto in front of a shredded pile in the Austrian school and training system. The fact is that the current school system is more like a flickwerk. There are many different school attempts: On the one hand there are new secondary schools somewhere, on another corner in Austria there are project-oriented folk schools, I have listed here, then there are the traditional primary schools on the country. That is, for me personally, there is no strategy here where the train is supposed to go. In the truest sense of the word, it is inconceivable which maladministration is carried out on the back of the children who are young people in that country. Because of these facts, schools have already lost sight of their actual tasks, namely to teach children and young people basics, to convey values, even to teach them writing, reading and computing. The economy is already moaning in some areas, which is some of the level of school leavers. Of course, you have to ask yourself if we want to have it that way in the future. What the government is thinking of all of this has been mentioned more often today: The Ministry of Education will have to pay rents at a later date. After all, it only goes from one bag to another, doesn't do anything! The government removes allowances from teachers. And I'll ask you again: Is that a strategy? Is that sustainability? Do we ensure adequate training of our children? I say to you, of course, no, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals – and this is really a matter of my heart now – demand a modern right of service and remuneration for teachers; we demand a uniform teacher training as well as a comprehensive structural school administration reform. The In principle, there are three points that can be addressed immediately, and that is what we are calling for from the government. Finally, ban those ideological gifts from the entire school, and act in the sense of our children and young people! I would like to end my speech with a saying: Come with the coal, the education for the good!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11496	The next speaker is Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11517	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Schmied! High house! To the Federal Act amending the School Organisation Act, I would like to say positively that school attempts are generally to be supported. However, the present government template leaves many detailed questions open. Clear criteria are missing, and funding is more than questionable. But what bothers me in the current strike is the lack of a model function of teachers. [[Abg. Oils: There's no strike anyway!]] The young people practically learn that you strike instead of working. What kind of morale is that? What do we give our children? What should be enforced is finally a complete equality between apprentices and pupils with regard to free travel, aid and promotion. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am thinking, for example, of a complete abolition of the exams at the joint and master exams, Austria-wide, further on the creation of a Blum-Bonus-New, ensuring that businesses that train apprentices generally receive a premium for each apprentice who is training for the entire teaching period. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The current economic crisis is particularly affecting SMEs. The business and craft sector is serving 61,500 apprentices in this field, which is 74 percent of all apprentices in our country. We have to support these SMEs in general, because they are the pillars and anchors of apprentices and trainees in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We require legal termination protection throughout the entire teaching period for all apprentices who have taken advantage of the Blum-Bonus-Neu. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I can't say often enough: A youth or an apprentice without a job is a long-term unemployed person of tomorrow, and we must prevent that from happening together. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11610	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11680	Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11701	Mr President. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! Dear students! School has to be fun, and learning has to be fun. And for this to happen, future action needs to be taken; for this it needs a reform that makes school viable and interesting. For example, this would be project work instead of frontal teaching, the promotion of individual strengths and talents, the mediation of social skills, but also the extension of the participation of students in schools, because pupils are the experts and experts of their school sector and school system. The expertise of the students must also be heard by politics. And if Federal Minister Schmied does not give an active invitation, I suggest that students also give themselves hearings, no matter what that looks like. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The school of the future means promoting strengths, giving opportunities and enabling the future – not beyond the minds of the students, but with them. And that is the responsibility of the Federal Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11741	I'll close the debate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is no such thing as that! There is one more speech, Mr President.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: To the Rules of Procedure.]] Mr Scheibner, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11790	Mr President. I am surprised that you are now closing this important debate, although there are still speeches. I just tried to place a word message in front of the stage. This must be allowed, because the debate cannot depend on whether there is a television time or not, but we, as elected Members, want to discuss it accordingly in this educational debate. We have also just tabled a motion for a resolution on the need to support the Minister for Education that teachers can really work two hours a week longer with pupils. And I am not going to let you, Mr President, cut off the floor here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11814	Mr Scheibner, we decided on a Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the agenda. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is a Rules of Procedure!]] – There is a speech on the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking if there's more word messages... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, there is a word for the speaker list!]] We have reached a speaking time agreement. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is no such thing as that!]] Of course we have reached a speaking time agreement! You presented this to us. [[Objection to the BZÖ.]] Mr Scheibner's speech is a statement on the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You cannot withdraw the floor from the Chamber!]] Are there any further comments on the Rules of Procedure? Please, Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11894	Mr President. I'm absolutely surprised. As President, you have never been able to intervene in the free speech of Members. Of course, every Member may also use a television broadcast... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's unlikely what you're doing!]] [[Further lively calls at the BZÖ.]] - Excuse me, may I continue to talk? – Of course, Members can speak at any time. A television time agreement concerns only how many minutes are broadcast in a television broadcast. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A scandal you're doing!]] But to limit the free speech rights of Members, you do not have the slightest right to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11948	Is there any further mention of the Rules of Procedure? – There is no word. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is a speech on the debate, Mr President. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] I should like to point out, Mr Westenthaler, that no speech has been received at the office. [[Objection to the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: She was not accepted!]] No word was received at the office, otherwise she would have appeared on the screen. I'm asking: Who would like to speak on the subject in this debate? Please, Mr Scheibner.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11999	Mr President. I am very glad that you have now corrected this, because of course there has been a word message, but they has not been accepted after consultation with you. And I say this to you with all appreciation, you know, I appreciate you as President in your capacity as President, but so it cannot happen that any agreements with the ORF, when it is transferred or not, lead to the fact that, as a freely elected Member, it is no longer possible to speak, Mr President. It really can't be. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] It cannot simply end a debate if you think so, now we have done it. This is not the case in the educational debate! A few minutes ago, Mr Markowitz made a comprehensive request from us. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Yes, that is clear, of course, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! That's wonderful. You believe you have now won a great victory, you have won a victory because your concreteists in the teacher union have won against an educational minister who has been left alone by the Finance Minister and by her own Federal Chancellor! You can really congratulate this Pyrrhus victory! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But the students stay on the track. Our children stay on the track! They can now thank themselves for having five days less leisure time that they can enjoy with their families. This was precisely the window days, which have been reasonably released. We would have supported Mrs Bundesminister's concern to ensure that the teachers who are supposed to have to do 40 hours a week are at least two hours more in the class and are really there for our children, which might have reduced the need for expensive follow-up hours. It should have been ensured that there is a proper preparation that there will again be more non-binding exercises in schools, just that the school offer will be improved. That would have been interesting in this educational reform, but all these measures have prevented you from doing so! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's where you need it. Don't add up and blow up here, ladies and gentlemen. If you, Mrs. Schmied, say your initiatives are now secured, I ask you: Yeah, but at what price? This may not be your serious fact that you say that the education budget is guaranteed for the next two years accordingly, where you know that most of it is a mortgage, a mortgage on the taxpayer. If the federal real estate company now has to give up rental income, because you simply can't pay the rents anymore – after who pays that? But not the federal real estate company that can print money, we are not yet so far, but the taxpayer must again pay for you to enter into this lazy compromise with the teacher union! A real Pyrrhus victory, which you celebrate here, ladies and gentlemen. That's great! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have not taken a step forward in raising quality in the education system. We have not taken a step forward when it comes, for example, to conveying basic skills in the primary school system. We have discussed the fact that something has to happen here in the metropolitan area. And I wish you a lot of success and a lot of fun when the entire school is ordered in Vienna, if I have understood it correctly. In Vienna there are school classes in which no one child is sitting with German mother tongue anymore, ladies and gentlemen! We want to discuss this, that it is guaranteed that the Austrian children can also be properly taught in their mother tongues and not Forced to go to expensive private schools. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And if you still want to extend this to the secondary level of the middle school, I wish you a lot of fun. Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied, we would like to discuss this – and not that you now want to make these lazy compromises with the teacher union. I really regret you. And all this at a time when we have such economic difficulties. This too is a topic, ladies and gentlemen. How do you explain this to someone who has to be afraid of his job?- Oh, my God! Tens of thousands of people are afraid of their jobs, which still have to pay school fees for private schools who have to pay for supplementary education because teachers are not in the classes. And there celebrate You will win a privileged caste that has the privilege, a secure workplace up to 60. Having a year of life?- Oh, my God! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Molterer, I can tell you: Your budget speech was much better than what we heard here today. It really doesn't do anything better! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A disaster in education policy, a victory of the concreteists, the teachers' union, and a defeat of one of all, even by the German Chancellor, in the absence of the Federal Minister. But unfortunately, the real losers are not here in the high house, but they are sitting in the school classes, these are our children, the students and their parents.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12120	Mr Scheibner, the good order for the sake of the following: I didn't stop a word. It has not been properly introduced and has not appeared on the screen either. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Of course! I was upstairs!]] - No, I don't. Of course, this is allowed. It is now possible to speak for a maximum of 20 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Oellinger, what can I do for you? - Please. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Oils: 3 minutes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12170	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with Mr Scheibner that: The compromise is a lazy compromise. However, in all other conclusions or opinions, I cannot agree with Mr Scheibner. It is not about us showing any group now – whether it be the parents, the teachers or the students. That's not the subject. The point is: Is the reform or what we can recognize as a reform at all present or not present? And I say, essentially, Mrs Federal Minister, that you are standing with what you personally want to do about reforms, exactly where, 20 or 30 years ago, we were given the model “Cooperative Middle School”, a further form of schooling. Now we have the New Secondary School. It has not got any better, Mrs. Federal Minister, but you have been able to do one thing – but that has already been achieved by your predecessor, Mrs. Gehrer: the motivation for the necessary school reform, the improvements in schools, the motivation of teachers! If that's supposed to be a success, that's clearly too little for me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we need in schools is no longer teaching time. We needed more social workers, we needed psychologists in schools. Yes, it's true what was sometimes said in the morning: There are massive problems in schools. The measures you are setting will not be enough, and, above all, what you are now bringing through the target stage as a rest of reform will not be enough. That won't be enough. We needed fundamental reforms, we needed reforms that concern the institutions of school administration. Where are they? – Nothing of all! If you really call what you have achieved in the compromise a good basis, then you are really totally wrong with each other, and that certainly concerns not only the Federal Minister. The allegation of refusing reforms in the field of education, which would be necessary, primarily concerns – that is to say, the EIA, which has always been on the brake in all the years and decades, when it comes to implementing necessary changes in the field of education. It's not just about the New Secondary School, it's certainly not. There aren't two hours left in the class or four hours more in the school. These are very fundamental issues, such as the joint training of all teachers who have repeatedly refused to do so by the ÖVP. There are still enough points to make clear: Where are we now? What do we have now? – Certainly almost nothing. What you have achieved as a compromise is certainly not enough to promote a school reform that would be necessary for Austria to reform education. And it's the real problem and the tragedy that you don't recognize this problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12228	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We have four motions to put to the vote. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 105 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. – The draft was adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you also agree to the draft at third reading, I would ask for a sign. – The draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Elmar Mayer, Mr Werner Amon, Mr Amon, on the preparation of an objective, transparent and comparable evaluation approach to model tests. If you join him, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 23.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, ladies and gentlemen, on the "New Middle School" stopper. Whoever joins this request, I ask for his consent. – He finds no majority and is therefore rejected. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues, about two hours more for the future of our Austrian students. Whoever joins this request, I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[13:03:07]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Culture, Research and Technology on the 2007 Cultural Report (III-28) the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture (177 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12328	We're coming to the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Unspoiled. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12355	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the hall! Dear Youth on the Empores! I would like to remind you that since March 2007 the responsibility for teaching, art and culture has been enshrined in a ministry, and in the preface of the 2007 art and cultural report, you, Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied, point out the great opportunity to cooperate between cultural institutions and schools. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] But after these announcements, no effective action has been implemented to achieve success in the field of promoting our young artists or to bring our young people closer to art and culture. On the contrary, the situation is even getting worse. In some areas, it is a kind of negative spiral in a cultural nirwana, for example as regards musical attraction. All the appeals, the big, dramatic appeals of the personalities of our music life, you, Mrs. Minister, but also – you have to admit that – have gone without results in your predecessors. I quote: The future of the Austrian music country depends on the music schools, according to the former rector, Prof. Michael Frisenschlager. It is a crime on the children's souls when they are deprived of a musical education, says Nikolaus Harnoncourt. Expensing a lot of money for producing music and less and less for the young people to learn it is not only pointless, but also stupid, says Ioan Holder. But what happens? – Nothing of what Austria needs! We need a better musical education for teachers, because especially between the ages of six and ten, the teachers are the cultural intermediaries for the children. We need to strengthen the artistic subjects in the school field. There is no increase in the Austrian youth at the music universities. And we absolutely need a cooperation of musical education with the countries. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Schmied, you know that very well, of course. This is a major problem, especially in Vienna. In Vienna it is so that not all districts have a music school. This is a shame to the Austrian culture country, and is also an irrevocable failure of all talented children who would like to learn a musical instrument, but who do not get a place. While in London, for example, the Royal Academy conducts a “day of the open door” where the professors and the artists play music with the children, or for example the conductor Barenboim in Berlin has built up a kindergarten that celebrates great successes, many initiatives that have already been launched in Austria have been abolished. I remember, for example, the action “Children Music for Children”, which Michael Frischenschlager launched, or a project launched by Prof. Friedrich Knopfek, “Youth Music”, with which the youth was prepared for later tasks in the large Austrian orchestras. The preservation of our identity is the subject of our consciences to our freedom. The preservation will only succeed, however, if the cultural heritage is actively developed and continued. The whole thing also applies to museum policy. Nothing has changed in recent years. The promised museum order has not been implemented. There is no targeted collection policy, no coordination with the national museums and no control activities. Currently, the interest of the directors is not focused on the interest of the houses. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! There should have been a lot of things in this respect. You have often talked about creating free admissions for young people. You could've introduced this a long time ago. I would also like to take a brief look at an important issue, namely the cultural mission of the ORF. The decline of the cultural level in the ORF is a shame for Austria. As the framework contract with the Vienna State Opera is terminated, the radio Symphony Orchestra is thought to be broadcast. We have made a request that it should be preserved. This request has not even been received from the Committee. There, individual cultural shows are pushed out into the night hours. Transmissions from opera houses, theatres and concerts are no longer happening in the main evening program. Over the years, successful cultural broadcasts, which you can still remember, have been abolished from Burg and Opera with Heinz Fischer-Karwin or Marcel Prawy, who have aroused great enthusiasm among the audiences, and instead we have condemned in the main evening television program... – I do not say that, but I could say: [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Soaps...!]] Soap operas. In any case, on television we really have levelless American series that fill the evening program. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are therefore putting forward the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: “The competent members of the Federal Government are invited to ensure compliance with and safeguarding the ORF’s programme mandate, as set out in Section 4 of the ORF Act, within the meaning of its objectives.” She, Mrs Schmied, is the one who should raise the voice loudest. Many failures have happened, but you can improve everything, and I think if you did one of our suggestions, that would be a great success for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12432	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is in a material context and therefore also in negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12524	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12546	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To my predecessor: They have addressed the link between art and school: You might have forgotten a lot of things, or you'd have slept, that's what's going on. It runs very much under the great title “Art Makes School”. There are connections between musicians, between theaters, between the Philharmonics, for example, and the schools, the children. There are links between the film and the school. It's about how to carry film into school and discuss it. So there's a lot of things going on. For example, there are institutions such as culture contact and the like. So here's a lot happening, and I think you've overlooked something. To the 2007 Cultural Report, which we are discussing today: This report shows the picture of a colorful and diverse cultural landscape. There have been several successful decisions. Thus, the Federal Museums were able to show significantly more visitors and to balance significant structural investments. The basic fee for 2008 was increased by €6 million and a realignment of content was launched. You know, this museum policy initiative is still ongoing. One cannot break everything over the knee, but things must also develop, and that is happening in this case. In the area of the Bundestheater, the new appointment of the Directorate of the Vienna State Opera was carried out and with the appointment of Dominique Meyer and Franz Welser-Möst an exciting, culturally-politically forward-looking decision was made. The basic fee has also been increased here. I think that in a phase of deep economic problems, one can see again how important it is for the state to be involved in the field of art and culture. In countries where art depends only on sponsorship, it currently looks very bad. As you have referred to the youth: One of the major projects is the free entry into the museums. This too is in processing. In short, on your motion for a resolution on the ORF's cultural mission. It seems to me that there is a contradiction: On the one hand, you demand the free and independent ORF, on the other hand, this is almost a call for party acceptance. It is not the responsibility of the Minister to interfere in the design of the programme. [[Abg. Neubauer: This is not in the application!]] The cultural contract and the education contract are set out in the ORF Act and are therefore to be implemented. Of course, as a cultural speaker, I will also be able to enable the ORF to fulfil these orders, which are required by law, and to provide the financial resources for them. This is not only about opera transfers, as you write in your request, but also about the Austrian film, for example, and I think we are committed to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12602	Next item is the report by Mr Neubauer. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12623	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the cultural report, a small contribution is devoted to the protection of monuments, and this monument protection – one does not come to realize that when one has seen it in the past – is becoming more and more a playball of political influences in Austria. The great man of the Austrian monument protection, Alois Riegl, would have to turn around in the grave, he would see what is broken every day in the name of the monument protection. We have looked at this more closely and have come to a wide range of points. It was mainly the legislative innovations in 1978 and from 2000 that did not improve the protection of the monument, but in fact always worsened, because it seems that lobbyists have always consciously exercised their influence in order to eliminate unloving buildings and the like more, in a legal way. In 1978 the so-called ensemble concept was inserted into the law. This term made it possible for entire districts to be ground. In 2000 the terms “construction” and “economic” were then inserted. Since these terms were not legally defined, these terms have created a legal state, which now makes it possible to obtain virtually every monument legally if the political will is behind it. I mention a few examples of where this has already happened. The Rotunde in Innsbruck is the subject of such a decision, the accident hospital in Linz has been the subject of such a decision, at the Chamber of Labour in Linz exactly for this reason also the monument protection was ignored, at the hotel at the Neue Dom, and at present this is the case with the financial buildings East and West in Linz. [[Abg. May. Hakl: The Rotunda is still standing! We're not tearing her off!]] In addition, with the newly discovered “fascism hall” one wants to re-establish the monument protection, because it is now the case that the authorities are already being taken into account: If they do not agree that such a grossity as at the West Financial Building takes place, for example, where the whole plaster has been cut off, then they would share the blame for not getting to the head of National Socialism. Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot agree with this way of bringing the monument to life here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are various legal uncertainties in this area – and I also said this in the Committee on Culture – and the Federal Minister would be well advised to eliminate these legal uncertainties as soon as possible. I read in the government programme that some minor legal changes have been made. I just hope that these do not lead to further liberalisation of monument protection. I am already at the next point, namely the Museum of Folks. The Austrian Museum, which enjoys an important position within the European cultural museums, is also protected by monuments, and for the protection of this museum, the liberal Members make a corresponding request. [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly an important contribution to the Austrian cultural scene. I kindly seek the support of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12703	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is in a material context and therefore in negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12767	Next item is the report by Mrs Fuhrmann. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12788	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! On the occasion of the Cultural Report 2007, let me refer to current contents, current figures, which we already know. I would particularly like to stress the increase in the basic remuneration of the federal museums by € 8.5 million. This is a very encouraging, very positive signal for the museum landscape, for which I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Bundesminister. They have long since launched a museum reform dialogue to reform the museum landscape, which has also been completed for a long time. I would ask you here to take the initiative to consider together with Parliament what concrete conclusions we draw from them and what actions we should take. You yourself, Mrs Minister, have spoken about the fact that the definition of legal organisational framework conditions can be seen as an engine for the successful development of culture, with particular reference to making people attractive and contemporary cultural offers. I think it's the highest railway to put the announcements into practice. This can be done, for example, by means of the framework agreement already established in 2007, but also by the museum regulations. I would invite you here or rather ask you to present your proposals to the Committee on Culture. The cultural report shows very clearly and very compact how impressive the achievements and the competence of our Austrian Federal Museums are. It is therefore important that additional financial security is provided here. Excluding: There must be a discussion process for this, and I ask that it be concluded as soon as possible. I do not want to ignore the fact that there must also be a commitment to building investment. Even if we are in a difficult and tense economic situation, I think that it is precisely in view of the fact that art and culture are also an economic factor, under keywords such as “art chamber”, “deep storage” or “twinger house”. These are projects you've been communicating for a long time that you've been talking about and that I think it's time to close them too. Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied, you have just said: The cultural budget makes you less sleepy than education. – I can understand this well, even in view of the last few days. I would just like you to be just as vehement as you have used for education as well as for our cultural artists, for the Federal Museums and for the Bundestheater. They have shown a great deal of commitment on educational issues; I think the same would be appropriate for our art and cultural institutions as well as for cultural initiatives. I think we will succeed in doing some good projects. We will also have to talk in the Committee about the priorities and the distribution of the global budget; I am already looking forward to constructive discussions. As very positive I would like to highlight and also thank you for the fact that there will be no cuts in art and culture in particular. This is a very positive signal, and so it is also a matter of sharing the resources available efficiently. I would like to mention a subject field which is directly related to the Federal Museums and which is relevant to them, namely the development of galleries. The development of galleries enables museums to make purchases. It has proved itself very well in recent years, and in my opinion it should be extended. To welcome this is because it not only strengthens our galleries but also supports the Austrian art market. We all know how I said earlier that this is also an unestimated economic factor. Ladies and gentlemen! Art promotion is more than the distribution of public funds, art promotion is not only seen as a mere subsidy. Rather, I think – and I would invite you to see that as well – art and culture as an investment in the future, which is very important and important for all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12840	The next item is the speech by Mr Kurzmann. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12861	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria still has the reputation of a great cultural nation abroad, and we are rightly proud of the great cultural and artistic achievements that characterize our country. That is why it is all the more regrettable that today only the art report 2007 is discussed and discussed here in plenary, whereas the Cultural Report 2007 has already been completed in the Cultural Committee, as it is called in the beautiful official German. If you look at both reports more closely, you will notice that the distribution, promotion and communication of the German language are not given any meaning. In any case, there is nothing in the cultural or also in the art report, if you look away from the financial support that the German speakers experience. Ladies and gentlemen, this is in stark contradiction with what the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs said on 23 March. In April 2009, she said in the Cultural Committee that she was a very important and serious concern for the promotion of German language. Where, Mrs Federal Minister, do these lip confessions find their precipitation in the reports? As a member of the government, is the promotion of the German language only of importance as a Minister of Education, and here in turn only in connection with students whose mother tongue is not the German language? From our point of view, German language is one of the essential cultural foundations on which Austria builds, and not only Austrian literature. Therefore, the mediation and care of our mother tongues at home and abroad should, in our view, be a central task of your Ministry of Culture, but of course also of foreign cultural policy. The preservation of the German as the most important scientific language in Austria is also a priority, because it is simply and simply about the scientific capacity of our language, which assures it the rank as a cultural and world language. This rank would be abandoned if, as is sometimes suggested in symposia, science were to take place exclusively in English in the future. The increase in Anglo-American expressions in our language of use, but especially in the New Media and in advertising, has changed the development of the German language permanently. That's a fact. German, however, is the most widely spoken native language in the European Union, and nearly one hundred million people speak German as their native language. The equality of our mother tongue with English and French as an equal working language in the European Union is an hour's commandment. That is why I was very pleased, ladies and gentlemen, when, a few weeks ago, we adopted a joint motion by all the parliamentary parties here in the National Council to advance this objective. It is now, of course, up to the competent ministers and the Federal Government to enforce it in Brussels. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one more motion for a resolution from my group, Mrs Mag. We have already announced that: ‘The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Education, Art and Culture is invited to take all necessary steps, to create and implement a concept in which the respective projects and measures for the interaction of the three areas of responsibility are defined in detail, in terms of education, art and culture, and in terms of time for their implementation.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12935	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, it is in a material context and therefore also in negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13012	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13033	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear listeners on the gallery! We are discussing today the 2007 Cultural Report, from which I would like to draw up two specific areas, which we have partly discussed in the Committee. The one I would like to start with a quote from the former German President Theodor Heuss, who once said: Politics can never determine culture, but culture can determine politics. – What do I say with this quote, or what did Theodor Heuss mean by that quote? – That it is important that politics does not decide and evaluate what art is and what is not, what culture is and what is not, but that the freedom of art is a whole, very important thing that we must defend and protect! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, some members of the committee have noticed that, with regard to the promotions, in terms of the granting of support, there is a constant awareness that certain artists are on the move that certain priorities are set in the direction that might lead to a party-political background. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I can only appeal to you here, Mrs Minister, to stop these subsidies to so-called state artists and to ensure the freedom of art. – That would be the one area that is important. The second area, which is important to me in this cultural report and which is a little sad to me, is the stepmotherly treatment of folk culture. I refer here to the example of Carinthia, how I like and often do this, and I want to provide comparative figures. We have presented in Carinthia a cultural report in 2007 indicating that we have massively increased the budget for the field of folk culture in this direction: 10 per cent of the total budget for the cultural sector goes to popular culture! If I compare this with the cultural report of the federal government in 2007, I note that of the millions of € that are available for this, only 0.8 percent or € 445 000 were used for the folk culture. Mrs Minister, that is clearly too little! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I ask you here and appeal to you, the folk culture, which is quite, very important, which is identity-making and home country means giving a greater priority to your work as a minister. We would like to invite you to Carinthia to look at our funding in the field of folk culture, for example the artist city Gmünd, whose mayor Josef Jury is also sitting here in the National Council. Come on. After Gmünd, look at what we do in Carinthia in the field of folk culture! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] - Congratulations for you, Mayor! In conclusion, I would like to say why I believe that the culture of the people is becoming increasingly important: Because we live in a global world because the word “Globalization” is one of the central words of our era, and because this, in turn, means that people’s home is lost, that people’s home is lost. Especially in the area of home, home-to-home feeling, home-being and identity, culture, and especially popular culture, has a very, very high and important importance. Popular culture means home, folk culture means identity, folk culture means feeling at home. I am thinking of all the groups of costumes, of the cultural associations, of the musical chapels, which play a very important role in the small, rural communities and regions which are very difficult to fight anyway, and which have a very central task. We must not forget them, and we should also let them benefit from the financial support of the federal government that these cultural promoters of Austria - and these are important cultural institutions - deserve. In conclusion, I wish you every good for your task as a minister with the budget you have been given. You know, we're working well together, I'm sure you're going to be wonderful and also give people's culture the priority. Good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13121	The next speaker was Mr Dr Zinggl. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13143	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! These late publications of annual reports have an advantage: As in the Annual Report on Culture 2007, you can read very well what was actually planned and has not yet happened. Ms. Schmied, in this cultural report It is immediately in the introduction that a museum reform is to be started. That was two years ago, and since then nothing has happened. Sometimes I have the impression that you are on holiday in terms of culture, that perhaps at Christmas or in summer there is a cultural holiday that does not stop. In the meantime – and this is the tragic thing about it – this also has a little influence on the media, because they say quite rightly: What are we to keep writing about the use of bodies and working groups, and then nothing happens anyway?- Oh, my God! – At some point the substance also goes out to them, and then we no longer have any cultural policy at all, I think. So you started with the museum landscape. I got on Saturday to 85. Eric Pleskow's birthday in the Gartenbaukino spoke to the then responsible moderators and presenters of this discussion on the museums. You have told me that good reform proposals have actually been on the table, but nothing has happened since then. Mrs. Minister! I see, the school really caught you a little bit now, but that's why the culture has to suffer, I don't really see. Let us stick to museum policy once again, because there is a really nice and outstanding example: This is the Museum of Art, since for years the opposite of a policy has actually been made, because it is a kind of ruin! This has already begun with your predecessor, and unfortunately, although there is a need for action, you have not really done something about it. It has begun to be distributed: The Museum of Art, it has been said, is to be distributed just like the other museums, so that the ministry does not somehow talk, so that there can be budgeted and in terms of content a responsibility can also be taken over. However, self-responsibilities have never been achieved, but it has migrated from the Ministry to the Art History Museum, with the success that the museum has been more or less to do since then. Sometimes it's a little open, then it's closed again, with a word: It is very ruinous. This also has to do with the fact that the Art History Museum constantly needs money. There is a welcome milk cow, although it is not open, because every museum that does not have an open price costs nothing. Of course, all museums could be closed by reason, but that can't be it. I believe that this image of the former Museum of Art as a new museum of culture – we have been calling for it for many years – can once again preserve a life. There is also the Volkskundemuseum, and there it is absolutely right, which criticizes the liberals. However, we do not believe that the current position must necessarily be that everything must remain the same as it is now. It could well be integrated into such a cultural museum. Mrs Gehrer has already known all of this. Just, Mrs. Schmied, you don't have to repeat the mistakes of the predecessor. I think you realized that there is a need for action. ==References== April 2009 an Naga exhibition was to be opened at the Volkskundemuseum. That was – or actually, exactly – a co-production with Zurich. Everything was done, the curators and curators worked, the catalogue was written. Money has flown in, but for some reason it has not been opened. I also do not know why; I have already asked that in committee, but I have not yet received an answer. Now you have more money for the museums, i.e. an increase in the basic salary, Mrs Minister, but as you have just said in connection with the school, a budget also needs the reforms in substance. I say quite honestly, I believe that the budget – although it is of course important for the museums as a base for the reforms – is not available for the reforms, that the self-responsibility of the museums is actually covered by the increased budgets, but in turn you have no opportunity to really intervene and take on the political responsibility for certain orders. In the preface to the cultural report, you will continue to write that you had commissioned a new Art Goods Return Act in 2007. Maybe I can remind you that's not quite true. At the last committee in 2007 – which is God’s thanks – I asked you if there would be no need for action. You said: No, there's no need for action. – As a result, we submitted a proposal for initiative in March 2008 and see that you have also said that there is a need for action. There was a government template in summer 2008, but nothing has happened in this sector since then. I have no idea who is to blame for whether the trade unions are guilty, the ÖAAB or any other association of the ÖVP. I could list a lot more now, construction sites still and noch, but time is not enough for that. Maybe a little chatter to the number of visitors and visitors, because that was somehow praised by the ÖVP: [[Abg. Hornek: That was a bureaucratism anyway...!]] Last year, the Theseu stamp – which says in it, a little schmankerl – had 32,000 visitors. Ladies and gentlemen, we have this building right on the doorstep, I pass it every day: It's always closed! Where the 32,000 visitors come from is a real mystery to me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] You may also be able to provide us with information one day. Mrs Schmied, I think it will also be good for you if you are more interested in culture in the future, focus your attention on it and do not neglect it because, I believe, the chance of success, as anything to change and improve, is much greater. I think trade unions and ÖAAB will be Don't stop them from doing that. Try it, we support you! I hope for a future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13187	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13209	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Very briefly: We are discussing the 2007 Cultural Report here. We write April 2009, therefore an announcement: I would like us to have the performance reports closer in the future. [[There is a short-term failure of the microphone that the speaker is trying to resolve.]] [[Abg. Kickl: The house is really in need of renovation!]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: There will probably be a technician!]] - I think I did it. The 2008 art report, but also the 2008 cultural report – and we have discussed it in the Committee – will be discussed briefly. In any case, they will be sent to Parliament before the summer; it is very important to me that as much as possible up-to-date information is available. I would just like to address a few current points – we have already discussed this very thoroughly in committee – which are a great concern to me, in which I need your attention, but also your support. I'll start with the ORF. The film or the Austrian film industry is a big concern for us. We will be able to increase the budgets for this. We were pleased to negotiate a budget increase of €33 million for art and culture for 2009. That is quite, very important and central, I am very happy about that too. However, we will not be able to compensate for any failures of the ORF regarding the commissioning of the Austrian film industry with the art budget. In other words, I would like and will support it as a member of the government, but it is important that you too, as a Member of Parliament, be careful in the revision of the ORF Act. I think it is important to anchor magnitudes for this because any failures over the funding budget are very difficult to compensate again. I think this is central and important. In connection with the current debates, I would like to comment on a few points. The very specific next measures: The promotion of trade fairs and galleries has already been addressed by Mrs Fuhrmann. The report is now completed, and I am looking forward to the discussion. Before the summer, I would like to adapt the funding guidelines with a little backwind through more budget – and, of course, together with the applicants, so that we can become more targeted and better in this area and also have an attractive offer for young gallerists, so this will be done before the summer of completion. A major concern – we discussed this in committee – is the social situation of artists. We also want to organise a conference in June, and we will also address the invitation to you. An interministerial working group has already been set up. I am particularly concerned with legal or social issues, precarious employment conditions, changes in self-employed and self-employed activities. In this respect, there is a need for action, and I say so immediately, not only for artists, but also for atypical employment relations. I would like to take this issue very actively. The topic of museum, museum work and museum discussion: Even though I have been personally present in recent weeks, especially in connection with the subject of education, I can tell you, Mr Zinggl, that: Work is continuing in these areas too. We will have re-designed both the museum regulations and the framework agreements before the summer. It is also working on something that is particularly important to me, because it is also a form of culture, namely: how to deal with one another, how, for example, the discussions are going on within the museums. I think there has already been a lot of vote with the Directors' Conference. I would like to ask the directors in their responsibility as managing director of the individual houses, which is quite clear. But they are also very important and responsible for the design of the strategic discussion. In this sense, dialogue and reform processes have never been completed. There are intermediate stages, of which the two central, namely framework agreement and museum regulation, are now important to me as the immediate next steps. In the field of art and cultural communication, we will continue to set clear priorities. I am concerned about cultural initiatives, especially in regional areas, in regional cultural development. Cooperation projects with schools are also very important, and we will now have scope for young people's promotion, scholarship programmes and international appearances to discuss this in detail in connection with the allocation of the budget. In this context, I am thinking of the use of the Domenig House on Lake Ossia, where we organise international architectural conferences. That's the way for me to stand up for that! I can only tell you, Mr Zinggl, that I too am pleased if I now have more time for art and culture. I am very, very much, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13283	Mrs Ablinger has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13305	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Petzner – as always in debates on art and culture – spoke of the “state artists”. Mr President, you are talking about the freedom of art, but you are actually talking about promoting the freedom of art. For you, an artist is so long artist until he receives public funding. If he receives public funding, he becomes the object of your slander and the “state artist. ” This is, in my opinion, a transparent definition of cultural policy, but nothing new, not surprising. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] Mr Neubauer spoke of "the things" and referred, among other things, to the construction project in Linz, which concerns the financial building. In addition, there would be the “IN SITU” project that you may not have considered at all. Some comments: First, the architect Krischanitz won this project in a competition, through a jury decision with seven to zero votes. - So much to the facades. Secondly, as regards the “IN SITU” project: When you deal with it, you can take care of it. It is an art project reminiscent of the countless places of horror during National Socialism in Linz. Well, that's worth your support! I therefore come to an essential point in cultural and art policy. I believe that in the field of art and culture we are constantly confronted with this unbearable evasion. Again and again it says: Does that have to be? That's shit! – I say to you: Yes, that must be! Art needs the risk, art and culture to be experimented. And the limits of what can be, determine the laws and not the good taste. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kickl and Mr Petzner.]] I quote the former Minister of Art Rudolf Scholten, who said: Cultural policy is ultimately self-evident, unconditional partying for a fundamental right – against the restricting moods of the day. - Quote. And I'm saying, Art has to escape the boundaries of social tolerance, politics is the path guide! The task of art policy is to get along with the borders, to take courage and to be willing to go along, to take a risk, to enter the new country. Art policy must not be borne by mass enthusiasm, but must be pursued with enthusiasm. That's what we stand for, and that's what our Minister stands for. Finally, as regards the FPÖ application for the Volkskundemuseum, a small observation: It is an association museum, there is currently a working group that talks about the future solutions. We don't want to go ahead with that. That is why we will not agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13360	Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. Time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13382	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We have already found it several times today: Art and culture are no longer to be thought away from our society. Especially in economically difficult times, it is important that art and culture are available and accessible to people, but that their independence is preserved. The cultural report shows that this independence has proved successful. The museums were marked by a high degree of independence during the period under review. Even if you are planning a new museum system and new framework agreements, it is important to ensure this independence in the future, in fact, human, financial and economic, so that this mission can be observed in terms of art and culture and in terms of scientific freedom. Here and there one hears concerned voices saying that in the future this may not be as good as in 2007. I hope that this is just a forward-looking concern and that there is no real indication that this independence could be at risk in the future. [[Abg. May. Stefan: There's no such thing as that!]] In 2007, the three Bundestheaters received a total of € 133.6 million in federal funding. In the Cultural Committee, we talked about the fact that – especially on this example, but also on the example of the Federal Museums – the Federal Capital of Vienna benefits disproportionately from the federal art and cultural budget. For example, 1.3 million people can visit the three houses. A closer analysis of where they all come from is not available to me; we hope that people from all over the world are represented. Despite everything, Wiener women and Vienna are getting easier. All the more important it would be for you to put on your agenda as quickly as possible – we also discussed this in the Cultural Committee – that the city of Vienna is making a minimum symbolic contribution and that the municipal tax will be paid. I hope that it will not only take Mr. Hahn as mayor of Vienna, but that the Federal Minister will prevail before this time – unless we choose earlier. [[Abg. Kickl: We're still far away from that!]] Waiting for another year would be too long for me; we only choose in spring or autumn 2010. It is a great concern to ask for this symbolic contribution from Vienna as quickly as possible. By the way, the Vienna government could do this, even without you going into action; but obviously it will need your agenda here so that Vienna will act and make its symbolic contribution to it. In this context, however, it would also be important for us to review the efficiency once again in the course of the dissemination – the evaluation of the Bundestheater is also a common agreement – that is, based on the wonderful data contained in this cultural report, now see how every single euro is targeted at art and culture in these next years and how the culture can actually benefit from it. That is why it would be particularly important, in conclusion, for this report to allow the evaluation to take place, so that the promotion of art goes where it has to take place, and that the funds be used for the promotion of artists – and not for organisations. We therefore need an appropriate evaluation to see where the funds can be used even better.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13438	Mr Dr. Strutz came to speak. Time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13459	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We debate and discuss the culture, but we look at the Members in light. It is unfortunate that the priorities are set in this way. What I wish for, however, is that the priority of the Minister of Culture and Art is another and gets a proper weight – which is unfortunately not the case. Two quotes: From the “standard” to the question of the social situation of the artists in Austria, answer that this is not on your priority list and that the cultural budget – which has already been quoted – does not prepare you sleepless nights. I understand that in addition to the conflict with the teacher union, there is little time for cultural agendas. Unfortunately, you also make this clear by your presence at important events. Where were you at the opening of the Capital of Culture in Linz as Minister of Culture? Where were you at the start of the “HAYDN-JAHR 2009” in Eisenstadt? They hide from the creative and from the cultural leaders. Maybe for good reason. I can tell you what you think of teachers when the director of the Art History Museum, Sabine Haag, is quoted in the “Standard” as follows: “The recent willingness to combat measures expressed by Belvedere Director Agnes Husslein can imagine Hague in a serious case () For the KHM, she could seriously imagine protests such as closing days or the removal of important projects.” This means that, according to the teachers, the cultural creators will now protest. I just hope you give them as much time and attention as the teachers. I also hope for the artists that they will be equally successful. It is true that the petition of the Museum of Applied Art, which has now signed almost 2,000 artists, says: 'At a time of economic uncertainty, comprehensive savings programmes and general levelling, it is necessary for the Federal Government to set unmistakable signs.' We miss these signs, Mrs. Federal Minister, from your side; on the contrary, what you have announced, you have not implemented. A few months ago, for example, you gave yourself a right of guidance and regulation to implement framework agreements with museums. What has become of this competence and of these objectives? They have said that there should be a rewording of the museum order, a new art recovery law; They talked about the need for an evaluation of gallery funding, as already mentioned. – We are here of the results, we are here of things! If you take the 2009 cultural budget, which is now on the table, the amount is €447 million. Only one comparison: The city of Vienna alone has planned 230.6 million € in the cultural and scientific budget. And you juggle with the small budget resources, you make shifts, you go to the institutions – and the artists stay on the track! They stay on track because social security continues to be pushed to the long-term bank. They are not directly promoted and the framework conditions are not improved. That is why, Mrs Minister, I would like to conclude by expressing an appeal and perhaps a good advice to you: Set different priorities! The time you dedicated to teachers in the past should be given to culture and artists in the future. That might also be your personal View in Austria and eligible in this government bank!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13508	Mrs Windbüchler-Saussill has been reported to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13529	Mr President. Dear Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! 21.5% of 15 to 16-year-olds in Austria cannot read meaningfully. That is why the question of equal access to knowledge and information is more up-to-date than ever, especially in the cultural field. This includes public libraries, as a public library is designed to ensure low-quality access to knowledge. To date, Austria has no uniform library law that would regulate standards and personnel needs. Education outside of school institutions, educational institutions and universities must also be guaranteed, and of course also in cooperation with local authorities. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The state of public libraries is still sad. The number of libraries goes back: In 2005, there were 1 563, which in 2007 were only 1 507. The offer is also not uniformly regulated in Austria. Federal states such as Carinthia and Lower Austria have the least media per inhabitants and inhabitants, and the number of libraries in the federal states is also quite different: Carinthia is also sad – almost – librarian development country, with only 68 public libraries. Tirol has 188, Vorarlberg 105, and even the Burgenland has 79 libraries. All of this and much more are reasons for finally creating an Austrian Library Law to have uniform rules throughout Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13590	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is in a material context and therefore also in negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13663	The next speaker is Mr Sacher. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13684	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I can accept the subject of monument protection and monument conservation, and I would like to say to the head of my statement that this area is given a very high priority by Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied – and I would also like to express my thanks. Since the entry into force of the new Monument Protection Act 2000, this is the highest budget approach, with about €15 million. In addition, the tax deductible donations amount to € 6 million. This is a very high amount compared to the previous years, with regard to monument protection and monument care. This is also a very important factor in job creation, because it is particularly active in labour-intensive activities and high-quality jobs are created. We need to know that these funds create the tenfold added value. If you activate this, then there will be 180 million € in the monument protection, in the monument care. In this context, I would just like to say to one of my predecessors, Mr Neubauer, of the FPÖ, who even suspected political intrigues and games behind the monument protection: From our point of view, that must be rejected. I can only say: Like the bad guy, he might think. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Ah? Ah?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 2007, which is reported here, 1 095 monument protection projects were funded in Austria. As a Lower Austrian, I am pleased that our state of Lower Austria has the highest share of 250 projects. [[Abg. Grill: The pomp...!]] The facade action is also worth mentioning. I should like to point out that international cooperation also has a high priority in the area of monument conservation, even for a social democratic minister. I remember – keyword UNESCO World Heritage Projects, World Heritage Zones –: We have eight UNESCO World Heritage Zones in Austria. Two are in preparation: the Eisenstraße project and the Limes project. Finally, the Semmeringbahn, the historic centre of Vienna and the Wachau, from which I come, have been added, and I would like to thank you very much for that. “World Heritage” means that conservation is guaranteed here, but it does not exclude the future-oriented development of the world heritage regions. And second, as far as internationalism is concerned, Mrs Bundesminister: I would also like to thank the Austrian authorities for supporting and supporting the neighbouring countries, especially the former Eastern countries, with our expertise in monument care. I only mention Slovakia, where monument protection projects are promoted with our knowledge, with our experts. I could say a lot about the national conservatories now, but I would just like to say one thing: An outstanding project was the transfer of the National Conservatorate of Lower Austria to the city palace of Gozzoburg in Krems, where we both, Mrs. Federal Minister, were able to convince us how great sensational finds have been preserved here. I am delighted with these resources, which have, of course, been very important there in the region. Finally, Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill's request: Of course, the library sector is also a huge concern for us. It is so important to us that it is also explicitly provided for in the government programme. We can, of course, win much off your request, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. However, I would just like to point out that a working group has long been set up in the Ministry to prepare a comprehensive approach to the development of libraries. That's what we want to wait for. So there is no longer any need for this request. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13749	Next, Mrs Mag. Aubauer. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13770	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, thank you, Mrs Minister, for wanting to forward the cultural and art reports to the House of Representatives more quickly in future. That's most gratifying. Then we no longer need to discuss a report from 2007 in April 2009. A good initiative! Thanks a lot! [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, I would like to look to the future anyway. Culture will continue to have a high priority in Austria's culture. This has made it clear today in his budget speech and has also provided the resources for it. Then: What would our tourism country without federal museums, without federal theatre, without the famous exhibitions such as in Albertina? For me, the question is: Are all these wonderful offers accessible to all people? How far are museums, events also accessible to older people who may be disabled? – In our society, there will be more and more older people in the future. These young people are highly interested in culture, and they want to stay as far as possible up to old age. How can this work? – It would have to be more considerate of seniors, including in the world of culture. That's what we want. There are some shortcomings. Special offers such as touch-tours for visually impaired or guided tours in sign language for deaf visitors take place, but they should be offered regularly, which is not the case in many museums. For all available cultural offers are the exception, but not the rule. There are also positive examples such as the barrier-free homepage of the Belvedere. But – and that is also said – for accessibility on the websites of our museums it is not very well ordered. What, then, do older people who hear worse people who do not go so well, who are restricted in their mobility? – Sometimes very small improvements would help, for example, a stepless entrance, lifts that are wide enough for wheelchairs, a control system for visually impaired people, labels in legible writing, text treadmills at performances. That would help. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, many seniors have worked for a lifetime, saved the children and the grandchildren, and now in the pension they have time to enjoy culture – and then sometimes it fails at a few difficult levels. It shouldn't be. Here we need improvements, and this is what we wish for. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13824	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. Agreed speaking time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13846	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Estimated colleagues in the High Authority House! “The culture must remain an affordable food” – this sentence by chamber singer Theo Adam puts our wife minister at the beginning of the 2007 Cultural Report. And I think this sentence also says very well what is an objective of our Mrs. Claudia Schmied in cultural policy, namely the participation of all people in the diverse cultural offer and the communication of culture in a wide variety of ways. In order to achieve all this, Mrs. Schmied has launched a series of initiatives aimed primarily at cultural communication and, above all, at children and young people, for example with the “Kunst macht Schule” project or with the “KulturKontakt” project, as we have already heard from Colleague Muttonen. That Mrs. Schmied's goal is also that a cultural partnership should be entered in every school, I find it particularly exciting because I think, so that one can really arouse the interest of young people in culture, in art. It is possible to deal with culture, and one also creates a dialogue between artists and students, and I believe that this is a very important approach to inspire young people for art and culture. In the 2007 report you can also read that this already bears fruit, that you have already started many projects and that they are also very, very well running. Another goal of Mrs. Minister – which she has said herself in her speech today – is to ensure the diversity, the colorfulness of the cultural scene. If Mr Petzner says that politics should not do the culture, then I can only give him the right. On the other hand, Mr Petzner says that there is too little funding in popular culture. This is a bit of a contradiction for me, because: [[Abg. Petzner: I didn’t say that, Mrs. Colleague!]] If politics is not to interfere, it is not supposed to interfere at all – and not in these areas that seem to you right, then it is. This is not the right access for me. I think politics can allow in the cultural field, it can allow, it can support artists. But it must also be open to new, innovative ones, not only to the old and traditional, and not only to preserve that, but to both. [[Abg. Petzner: Both!]] I am convinced that Mrs Minister is very well aware of this responsibility. [[Abg. Petzner: I also praised her, Mrs. Minister!]] If you read the report, Mr Petzner, you will see that the people's culture also has a high priority, but on the other hand it also has new, innovative place. I am also very pleased that it is very important to the Minister – and this is important to you too, I believe, Commissioner of the Freedoms, that cultural initiatives are supported in the regions. There are also excellent artists in the rural regions, there are excellent cultural artists, there are also excellent initiatives, and these are also best supported by the Minister of Culture. I am convinced that there is also a high-quality, high-level cultural offer in our country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] – Not because of the head of state, also because of the good cultural councils and councillors in the regions, Mr. Grillitsch! I am convinced that Mrs Schmied's way of making the culture accessible to everyone and enabling culturalists the best environment is the right one.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13924	The last speaker to speak was Mr Christ. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13945	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies on the government bank! High house! I would like to mention two projects from the cultural report, which I consider very exciting, very interesting and worthy of support. Two projects were funded under the title “Austrian Cultural Information” in 2007, which are located precisely at the interface of culture and science. For one thing, on page 20, the list of artistic and scientific estates in Austria – contractor is the Austrian National Bank – and on the second hand a very interesting project of the Alpen-Adria-Universität Klagenfurt, namely the “Encyclopaedia of the European East – documentation on history, culture and politics”. Both are very, very interesting matters, both are groundbreaking, in particular the encyclopedia. This consists in the core of an alphabetical lexicon, which also includes a 113 articles comprehensive language lexicon. The authors are appointed scientists from Germany and abroad on their subject. I am saying this because I am very pleased to have no support from the Ministry of Science – and I would very much like to invite Mr Hahn to do so. This would be very urgent, and both projects would deserve it. That is why I would like to invite Mr Hahn and ask him to consider whether he could also support these two good projects from his place of business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13973	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Culture to take note of this report III-28 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. On-site, colleagues and colleagues on the ORF's cultural mission. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and so rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Sites, colleagues and colleagues on the preservation of the Museum of Folks in Vienna. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and so rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Inlands, colleagues and colleagues on synergies between the fields of education and art and culture in the Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is also the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Sushill, colleagues on a library law in Austria. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, to give a sign of approval. – This is also the minority and thus rejected. [[14:17:36]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the report (III to 34) the Federal Government on internal security in Austria (Security Report 2007) (171 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14079	Now we're on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Vilimsky spoke. Agreed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14106	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! “The Wiener doesn’t live in comparison,” Karl Kraus once said. And if Karl Kraus had had the favor of getting to know our Mrs. Fekter, he would probably have had to find a new saying, going in the direction: The Wiener lives in two realities. And with the Vienna, who lives in two realities, the Austrian also lives in two realities. One reality is the reality of Mrs Minister, where it is not bad about crime in Austria and where the motto is: Vienna is a safe city! Austria is a safe city! [[Abg. Oillinger: Austria is not a city!]] And the other reality, which eight million Austrians experience every day, is that one can no longer master the intrusion statistics, that one can no longer be the master of East gangs, and that hardly one day goes by, when no new records of crime can be found in the daily newspapers! We have experienced this in the Committee on the Interior when the 2007 safety report was before the debate, as well as today. We have had to experience that Mrs. Ministers apparently do not even have their place in this area under control, because at the same time as the safety report was debated in the committee in 2007 and she explained that everything is wonderful and everything is good, the official issue of her department came that in the first quarter of 2009 the crime exploded – which naturally meant that she was in a corresponding argumentation emergency and had to discuss wildly with her officials. But even the official number that was announced – as much as you can't trick down statistically at all – is still much, much less than the actual number. The latest reports have shown it, for example for the city of Vienna, where the official ID card for the first quarter of 2009 was associated with an increase of 8 percent. A few days later, a closed report from the interior resort, the so-called security monitor, came to the public, the adjusted growth – not incorrectly adjusted, a “adjusted increase”! – caused by 25 percent crime in the first quarter of 2009. When we discussed this in the committee and I allowed the Minister of the Interior to point out that the opening of Schengen borders is actually essential to this increase in crime, she has become annoyed and said that everything is not true. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Awesome!]] Mr Hornek even felt obliged to say that it is the Serbs who are responsible for this increase in crime, because the Serbs, to a large extent, choose the Freedom Party if they have become rightful and well-integrated citizens here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it's still going on. The Minister for the Interior explained: No, it's not just the Serbs, it's primarily the Germans. – With me, I believe, many people have “anxiousness” in this city and in this country, that people from Leipzig, Hamburg, Düsseldorf and wherever we come from like the locusts and spend the thief’s property in the Federal Republic of Germany, what you, Mrs. Minister, said in an interview with the daily newspaper “The Press”. Mr. Minister, this is absurd! Whoever has this access to fight crime in Austria is disqualified with it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I know you don't believe me. But perhaps you can believe the “Wiener Zeitung” – at least the Quasi-Verlautungsorgan of the Republic of Austria – in which a recent report entitled “Vienna: A city is looted out” in which the dramatic increases in the various fields of crime are well explained, and it is said quite clearly and unraveled that according to local criminals, the current disaster is nothing but the disappearance of the eastern borders since the extension of Schengen. There it says: “... Open borders promote unimpeded (theft) transport as well as the rapid return of displaced offenders, such as Romanians, who, in addition to Georgians and Moldovans, are currently the largest of the burglars in eastern Austria.” And the chief of the foreign police, Mr. Kovarnik, put another point on it and said that many foreign offenders with countless tricks like shaming, false papers, repeated asylum applications et cetera can stay here in the country again and again. This brought him a parliamentary request from the Greens who accused him of racism. [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible!]] He hasn't said anything since. Only, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, if you make such a policy and here protect your hand over foreign criminals, then it is good that you fall into the election favor and fall and fall until you are finally out of this Parliament. And this will be a nice day for Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The FPÖ clearly states: We are in favour of restoring the borders to the east. We are in favour of putting up more police in Austria – not 1,000 police officers who do not even cover the natural finish. 3 500 police more for Austria, that's the minimum! And a sharp and determined fight against crime! - That's exactly what you, Mrs. Minister, are missing. If I look at the city of Vienna, where mayor Häupl is still giving the tone, I can only say: It will be a good day and it will be a beautiful day when this mayor Häupl loses the mayor's chair and a liberal, namely our Obmann Heinz-Christian Strache will take his place! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Just as we need the change in Vienna, we also need it at the federal level, that we do not have someone sitting at the top of the interior, who cannot even look after his own handbag, but someone who is determined to fight crime, can name the problems by name and is actually prepared to execute security policy. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14208	The next item is the speech by Mr Kößl. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14230	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Away from the dreams – back to reality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One can of course criticise the fact that the 2007 Security Report is only being discussed here in the National Council, but I believe that it has already been explained very clearly and clearly in the Committee by the two Federal Ministers, why this discussion is so late. I do not think we need to discuss the 2007 safety report either, since the figures for 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 are already on the table. And we don't need to beautify anything here – there's an increased crime, no question at all – but we don't need to scandalize anything either. It is extremely important when it comes to internal security, that we do not let populism apply, but look at reality and that every Member of this House makes his contribution to bring himself in here. I think that security is in very good hands with Mrs Fekter. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: (in the direction of the speaker) Do not laugh!]] One thing we must bear in mind: There has been a social change in Austria, in Europe. Due to the disappearance of the Iron Curtain, a lot has changed, especially in the safety field. And this has also been taken into account by various measures, which have been put in place with the merging of the guard bodies into a single federal guard body, up to the last action launched by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, because crime has increased enormously in the last three or four months, especially in the constituencies and along the main transport veins. This has nothing to do with the removal of Schengen borders, as this change took place in December 2007. And a year later we found this situation, starting with increased crime, with increased burglary. But, of course, we also need to express clearly and clearly that crime has changed in general. In the case of crime, especially in fraud towards computer crime and child pornography, but of course – we need nothing to beautify in this area – especially in the case of house collapses in the constituency centres, the reconnaissance rate is certainly not satisfactory, but the efforts are given. I think it's important that we let the security experts speak. They should consider which measures are most reasonable. We should also support this from the policy side. I think it is important that we analyse precisely, analyse regularly, and also bring us in where there is a need for action. A very important aspect is – and I would like to stress this, of course – that the decline in crime rates between 2005 and late 2008 have taken place, which is of course also due to the very close cooperation we have had with foreign police organisations and that we have put in place measures in international police cooperation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was another government!]] I believe that we are on the right path, that the work done by the police in general is a very good one. We are one of the safest countries in the world, we want to remain, but we also know that crime has not stopped before Austria. We know that crime has increased throughout Europe and, of course, we must also try to meet this challenge. In this sense, I think that we are on the right path; above all, the Federal Minister is grateful for her work especially in the field of security – for the people in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14297	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Westenthaler. I would like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14318	Mrs. Minister! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it's actually like that – you hardly believe it: Today we are to discuss the 2007 Security Report, which is the most scurrying thing at all, because we have to imagine that it is not until the end of 2007, namely in December 2007, that the borders to our eastern neighbours have been opened, that is, today a completely different threat or crime scenario. Mrs Minister, it is really embarrassing that we need to discuss the 2007 Security Report now, in April 2009. But you hear and marvel! – the security spokesman of the ÖVP, Kößl, informed us in the Committee a few days ago, at least in April of this year, that the 2008 safety report will be available “even in a few months”. – Probably then in 2010! That is what security reports are about, a really embarrassing homeabohu, Mrs Minister! You should drive in there – and finally discuss the current situation with us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] It would be like discussing today's economic crisis on the basis of the stock exchange figures of the year 2007! We would have exactly the same starting point today – and that would be completely absurd! Mrs. Minister, yes, it is really true that there is de facto a security emergency in Austria, especially in the agglomeration centres – and especially in Vienna, where there are alarming figures in relation to criminal statistics. Many don't want to do that. Mrs Fekter, we have always had the impression in the Committee that you do not want to do so, because every number to do so must be taken out of your nose, as an example, so that you can tell us something about it at all. For example, in the Committee on the Interior, we have only found out how high the intrusion crime in the months of January to March of this year was: 3 600 intrusions, house burglaries, house collapses. And now it comes: Of these 3,600 invading crimes, there were only 2,812 in Vienna! It's pretty incredible what's going on there! And now one has to say that there is also its own reconnaissance rate. Do you know how high the reconnaissance rate is for burglaries in Vienna? – 3 percent! 97 percent of the burglars are never captured in Vienna at all. Mrs. Minister, that's a safe bank, that's safer than any gambling game. You only need to come to Vienna as a burglar and will never be caught. And that is not satisfactory, Mrs. Minister! It can't be. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We had to report 143 253 crimes in this country from January to March this year, in the first three months; plus 4.68 percent. If we add that to the experience of the past few years, we will for the first time, at the end of this year in Austria, exceed the brand of 600,000 crimes, Mrs Minister! We have a security emergency! They have to respond and not always tell us that crime in Austria is not so bad at all! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Minister, we do not even stand by the comparison with Germany. For example, there is the comparison with the port city of Hamburg – we know what that means. But Hamburg is already far ahead of Vienna when we read reports on this subject, because compared with German cities, Vienna is a Dorado for strizzis, Gauner and criminal. Then the information rates are interconnected, and Vienna is now in the final position in Europe. All other major cities in Europe have a higher education rate than Vienna. Austria – which is also a “total” balance sheet – has increased the daily crime rate under your leadership, Mrs. Minister, from 65 crimes a day to 67. There's something wrong with that. The crime rate is rising, the investigation rate is falling. And what does the helpless Minister Fekter do? – She says: It's the police! [[Call the BZÖ: Scandal!]] You, Mrs. Minister, put the blame of your missing security policy on the executive and say: They're to blame, I can't help it, they can't explain! And the SPÖ is still watching! The Vienna police are no longer being defended, in the Committee on the Interior there was no word of defense for the Vienna police. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: You didn't listen!]] We from BZÖ say stone and clear: It is not the executive that works around the clock anyway, but you are guilty of your missing security policy in this country, Mrs Fekter! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You do nothing against the increasing crime, you do nothing against the falling Enlightenment. They're frustrating the police. Publicly, you cancel the police and then you explain to us – I am already very excited about the budget debate, small advance on tomorrow – that you are satisfied with the budget. And there's an incredible untruth in the world again, because suddenly it says: We get 1,000 police more a year. Firstly, it is too little, even if it is 1,000, and secondly, it is wrong. We looked at the budget this morning. It is the untruth, Mrs. Minister! We now have 28 253 persons in the safety executive. There are 150 more jobs in the current budget for 2009 and 285 more for the year 2010. So everything in everything: 435 jobs. With this number, Mrs Minister, you will not increase the education rate and you will not lower crime, but in reality it is a declaration of bankruptcy of your security policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Debt is a policy of looking away, even at the opening of the border. - Yes! We too are in favour of restoring the borders to the east. It can't be that, as long as we get criminals, we're not finally restoring the borders to the east, we'll just be able to watch all the legions of criminals across the eastern border. That is necessary and that is what we demand. We also want something to be done about asylum abuse at last. They have formulated and decided on a humanitarian right to stay. You have a right to stay... [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: There is no right to stay!]] – Of course, there is a right to stay, the door and gate open for abuse, so that other criminal asylum seekers can drive their beings and not be pushed off here. And we strongly reject that, Mrs. Minister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We do not want this because we know that every second asylum seekers in Austria will become criminal. We cannot accept that, and therefore we are not in favour of a right to stay, which you want to lay down in the laws. Finally, Mrs. Minister: We have asked a question in the Committee – and we are very, very excited about this number, which is what the Minister for Justice will tell us. She promised us to let us know about this in the next few days. In the previous year, you and your colleagues in the government and your colleagues with in-force cracks of the law decided on a relief package, which has released thousands of raiders, thousands of criminals early on. Among them is an unimportant number – I am already very excited about it – of sexual offenders, Mrs. Minister. They bear responsibility with an EIA which has been adopted by the security policy in that country. They bear the responsibility if these perpetrators fall back. And I am very excited to learn how many of these thousands of early releases are now again in the crime statistics because they have fallen back and other victims have “caught off”. This is where you share responsibility, Mrs Minister, and we will explain it accordingly, because it cannot be that we are importing more and more crime, that more and more criminals are coming into the country – and then they will be released in a very short time. Yeah, that's what's frustrated the police when the criminals she arrested just a few weeks ago get her face up to. I can't! We're against such a relief package. Those who commit a penalty in Austria must be placed behind the castle and bars accordingly and must not be released early. We demand it from you, and you are responsible for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14461	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14484	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Sometimes, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder what Blue and Orange are telling us – the biggest wave of savings among the police in the history of this Republic have decided to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Just don't think we forgot! For the first time in its budget, the Federal Government has an additional 1 000 posts in it. And that's the truth and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It won't be better. There's a hundred times it's ready to go down. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And let me thank you very much also here and today to our colleagues in the Executive for their commitment to the people of our home country, because this is not even worth a word that “it” says thank our people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Mayerhofer: That's why you can't buy anything!]] This is polemics, ladies and gentlemen. And, Mr Westenthaler, read it in stenographic protocols, read it in all documents! Do you know when we had the greatest migration? Do you know when we had most asylum applications? Know it... – No! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In the nineties!]] When “it” was in the government. [[Call the BZÖ: “It”! “It”!]] It's just forgotten, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who is “it ”?]] Let's leave the church in the village, as you say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that this federal government is really doing excellent work. And now I'm gonna tell you something: Has anyone excited today about the 2007 Cultural Report? [[Abg. May. Stadler: “It” has become excited!]] Does anyone have that? “It” had long since been able to do something so delicate as “it” was in the government. We know it's working on it. We know. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “It”! – The SPÖ security spokesman!]] - Yeah, yeah, it's right. Tell me about it in the Styria, but not here! If we are already discussing data and facts, everyone knows that there are two basic statistics: an advertisement statistics and a convicted statistics. We have undertaken to bring these two statistics together in order to obtain a joint security report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] We have not only written this into the government agreement, but both ministers have also made a commitment to it in the Committee. But what makes it “it ”? [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the BZÖ: “It”! “It”!]] “It” doesn’t even listen, because it doesn’t want to listen. Security is a very serious and comprehensive issue. If you are serious about the concerns and needs of our citizens, but also with the colleagues of the executives, you are invited to cooperate constructively here. I believe that this federal government is excellent, and I think that we in Austria have a good training system and a good planning position for the future. If it just works together, we will do an excellent job for the Austrians or for our home country! Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14655	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Pilz. Suggested speaking time: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14678	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! After this brief opinion on the Security and Cultural Report, the safety report is back on its own. The essential question that arises and which we should, in fact, answer together concerns: We now have eight and a half years of a security policy that is more unique in Europe. In these eight and a half years, most ÖVP and FPÖ have jointly promised: If we reduce citizens' and citizens' rights if we give the police all their powers, then we will succeed in fighting crime in a way that is unique throughout Europe! That's exactly what happened: The state of crime is today in Austria in a way that is unique throughout Europe! If today – and it doesn't have to be in the east of this continent – intruders go through the map and think about where it's worth breaking in, then they'll find a city – a single city! – where the probability of being caught has already dropped to almost 3%, and that is Vienna. Yes, you believe that international intruders, no matter where they come from, say: We're going to Berlin, where there's a three to four-fold risk!Unknown term type: "%s".? We are going to Munich, where there is currently the fivefold risk!Unknown term type: "%s".? They all go to Vienna and come to Vienna more and more often. There has also been a shift within the housing theft from the federal states to Vienna. The 2 812 intrusions in the first three months of this year in Vienna were just one of the figures which the Minister of the Interior also mentioned to my personal surprise in the Committee on the Interior on our questions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: On multiple requests!]] 3.2 percent Enlightenment rate – a reconnaissance rate that goes against zero for the first time – means that only 90 housing break-ins of 2 812 will be clarified. 2 722 – and then the Viennans can rely on it! – stay unexplained and unsolicited. There must be reasons for that! There is one possibility, and that is the possibility the Minister of the Interior claims, namely: The Vienna police are three times as bad and as stupid as the Berlin police. The Vienna police are three times as bad and so stupid or five times as bad and as stupid as the Munich police. [[Abg. Kößl: She didn't say that!]] I disagree with the whole thing and say: The police in Vienna are no worse than elsewhere, but their working conditions are disastrous! What do we have behind us in Vienna? – Eight years of concentrated party book economy. Mrs. Federal Minister, if you are criticizing the Vienna police today, I have to tell you: Always remember that the top is firmly in the hands of the Austrian People's Party! All responsible police officers at the top have a black party book. That's an internal criticism you're making here when you move over the Vienna police. [[Abg. Kößl: You don't know yourself! You have no idea!]] And since Ernst Strasser, a supercentralization has taken place, which has led the Vienna Criminal Police to stop working decentralizedly, as it corresponds to their experiences and successes. I've been wondering for a long time: Why is there this “crazy” personnel reform? – Yesterday I found an e-mail among the Strasser e-mails, in which the highest trade unionist of the ÖVP, a senior official in the Interior Ministry, complains that in Vienna the staff ceiling of the ÖVP is so thin. [[Abg. Amon: From whom do you have these e-mails?]] You do not find anyone to occupy the posts, and if you have too few “participants”, you just have to create a slimmer, a bigger top, then you have to create a tip that you can occupy with a few “party politicians”. [[Abg. Kößl: You don't know yourself! You have no idea!]] That's exactly what happened in Vienna! And there's a lot more emails. These are practically printed confessions of an interior minister about the ruin of the Vienna and the Austrian criminal police. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: From whom do you have these e-mails?]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I know that there is no personal intention behind it and They don't feel comfortable personally either, but they're objective – and that's a fact! – not only in the eyes of criminals today are three ÖVP Ministers of the Interior and you, too, are something like a patron saint of the organized invasion. [[Abg. You're a scandal! That's great!]] [[Abg. Amon: Incredible!]] [[Further ongoing calls to the ÖVP.]] There must be no such thing in security policy: that you ask yourself which side the Minister of the Interior is on! A Minister of the Interior who places the security of one's own party on the security of the population has missed and favored her job, even if she does not want it... [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. You're a living scandal!]] I do not want to assume at all that you want to promote organized crime personally, but you have objectively created conditions in Vienna that are as good for the organized crime as they are anywhere else. That is why it is important to change this course. We've always said: A well-supported criminal police, not led by party books, while respecting all citizens' and citizens' rights, without a single breach of noise attacks and telephone surveillance, can do much more than an executive led by party books and where citizens do not know what to expect from this executive. Therefore, short summary and only conclusion from the facts that are possible today: It is up to this Parliament, this House and its Committee on the Interior, to protect the Austrian police from the Interior Minister and her party! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14867	For your comments, Mr Dr Pilz, in the direction of Mrs Bundesminister, she is “the patron saint of the organized invasion”, I give you a call for order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: To the Rules of Procedure!]] Mr Oellinger referred to the Rules of Procedure. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14911	Mr President, there is an agreement that boards and similar things, which are presented here, can only be presented for short periods of time. Mr President, could you arrange for the panel that the President-in-Office has set up here in his place to be cleared away? [[on the square of Abg. Dr. Graf's folding card showing “www.unzensuriert.at”]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14943	That was not a statement on the Rules of Procedure. I will give my presidency in 10 minutes and I will take this board with me. Mrs Fekter is now speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14974	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear guests! Today we are discussing the 2007 Security Report. This report still contains very encouraging figures, as it confirms a decline in crime. In 2007, 594 240 criminal acts were committed, including – one should, Mr Westenthaler, be able to distinguish between crimes and crimes when one is sitting in the House – 133,546 crimes and 460,694 crimes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't talk about 2007!]] In 2007, the education rate was 39.4 percent. In 2008 – and the report on this is not yet available to the House, but it has already been very far-reaching in our House; I hope that, together with the judicial unit, we have completed all the documents by summer – a total of 572 695 criminal acts have been committed. 129 613 crimes and 443 082 crimes were reported to the public prosecutor's office. This is a downturn of 3.6 percent in 2008, despite the opening of Schengen. 219 514 cases have been resolved. However, the education rate fell from 2007 to 2008 to 38.3 percent and by minus 1 percent respectively. However, the latest figures show an increase in crime. Already in late autumn, it was clear that we have seen a significant increase in crime, especially in Vienna and especially in the case of house collapses. From January to March, criminal offences increased by 4.7 percent. The education rate remained roughly the same at 38.2 percent. Regrettably, the awareness-raising rate is very, very low in the case of house collapses and company collapses, and therefore we set very specific priorities here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How's that going?]] I have declared the intrusion crime my priority. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ: You can see that anyway!]] We need three strategies for this priority. I need the team first. There the Ministry of the Interior has succeeded as one of the few resorts to be able to show in the budget plus figures, as you could already hear this morning. We have 1 000 training places per year and a natural outcome of about 800. That means we have 200 more police forces that we can employ in Austria. In Vienna alone we will have 450 pupils in education this year. I would like to thank you very much for the excellent work of the executive, which makes our country one of the safest in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] People like to travel to us on vacation, visit our country very much because we are one of the safest countries in the world, and we do not let that go bad. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] In addition to the team, however, we also need appropriate strategies to be mastered of these phenomena that have been added to us. For example, the priority actions set at the beginning of April were a full success. I thank the police in Lower Austria, the Burgenland and Vienna, who made five days of planquadrate in excellent cooperation and achieved a wealth of search results. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Are there numbers?]] As regards the evaluation of the results, the figures will, of course, be made public. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tell us the numbers!]] Furthermore, we will expand and introduce new strategies across the board when it comes to best practice models. The periodic security rounds in the municipalities and cities by district captain, mayor, federal police commanders, the commanders of the police services work excellently. These models, as we have them constantly in the district of Baden – and this is a heavily burdened district – are something we not only want to use there, but we also want to introduce it around Vienna and in all districts. We will also intensify the analysis; crime needs to be continuously analysed. Hiezu we have developed new computer tools that serve early detection to better counter control. The analysis data must be available quickly, in order to respond to the phenomenon of crime – for example, procurement crime – not only in the commanderships, but up to every policeman in his daily work. We will also receive a new criminal statistics, so that we can gain new insights under scientific supervision of external experts, especially with regard to the structures of the perpetrators, the times of action, the mode of operandi, the victim vision, the victim environment and the perpetrator environment. It is only possible to implement successful preventive measures on the basis of such findings. It is also intended that suspects of crime should be included in the research work afterwards. They are to be asked for their reasons, and they are to be asked what criteria they have selected certain dwellings or houses. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you serious about what you're saying? The burglars are asked why they're breaking in? No one believes that!]] Such a new approach, Mr Westenthaler, may lead you, in your ignorance, to mockery and laughter, but the experts who work on a scientific basis help us to become better master of crime phenomena. The forced work and the track evaluation is already on track. An important point of approach is the improvement of the awareness-raising rate through professionalisation and the further expansion of the work, namely the search for traces, enhanced DNA analysis and international cooperation with the Schengen Information System. We recognize how the perpetrators act internationally. They can thus be researched across countries, and the actions can be used for preventive work. Third, I have already mentioned this, are the priority actions that we are now continuing to carry out in the conurbation centres and along the main traffic routes, the Vienna derelict roads, which are the hot spots of crime. In addition to the team and the right strategy, we will also need the appropriate equipment. That is why I am very glad that the Minister of Finance has not set up the savings fund in terms of security. We also received €25 million in the budget. This will enable us to better equip the services and equipment of the police. We are on the right track to remain one of the safest countries in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: There is a security emergency, that is the truth!]] Mr Strache, don't talk about an emergency and don't invite the perpetrators. [[Abg. That's what you brought!]] They make work easy for the perpetrators if you constantly suggest that we would be the paradise for organized crime. That's not us! Toss these bands efficiently! I thank the police for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15132	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 4 of the agenda so that the urgent request for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[14:59:03]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues on ‘Solidarity instead of Class Fight’ (587/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15163	We now come to the urgent treatment of self-employed motion 587/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15261	I call Mr Strache, the first Member, to speak as the applicant for the reasons of the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15282	Mr President. The government bank is currently completely lost. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this urgent request today is already to be a sample of nails for the Federal Chancellor Faymann. We have heard many interesting things in the context of the debates here today. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have heard Mr Finanzminister's grueling budget speech, and I am sure that Mr Bundeskanzler, should he come today at all and give a speech, will find just as grueling words on our urgent request. It is also evident from the current posters of Mr. Federal Chancellor, on which Mr. Faymann is suddenly no longer seen as Grinsekatze and Grinsekanzler – one can already use both terms – but since suddenly it was also recognized by the SPÖ and its streets that we were experiencing a banking, financial and economic crisis, now he was seriously represented on the poster by not grinsekanzler grinning, but by looking down strictly on the state people, as the SPÖ commercialists seem to have considered. [[Federal Chancellor Faymann, Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll, Federal Minister of Dog Torfer and the State Secretary Mag. Schieder and Dr. Ostermayer take their place on the government bank.]] So you have finally come to the Löwelstraße that there is a serious economic crisis that needs to be considered, how to turn it away in the interest of the population or how to counter it. That's where the chancellor has to look seriously! I can only say that the concerns do not work so well on the poster yet, but at the latest after the forthcoming EU election, it will be so that you can see it better. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm stuck at the entrance: Whether Mr. Chancellor Faymann laughs or looks at it seriously, the politics of his party is a catastrophic one, and also the policy of this government is a catastrophe in some areas. A financial and economic crisis against which SPÖ is currently developing concepts? Well, how does a SPÖ react if it wants to counter it in an economic crisis? – She wants new taxes! New taxes, this is the old concept of SPÖ, the old method: We demand new taxes, new burdens to cope with a crisis! I don't know what your political credo is. I think we know it from Vienna, we know it from the federal capital, where you have an absolute majority. There you are loading cheese There you have been increasing all municipal taxes for years, where you can only do it in the area of garbage and canal charges, electricity and gas charges – there you are loading cheeses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger]] But that is exactly what we do not need Austrians in this situation! Down with taxes! No new taxes, as you already consider in your party apparatus, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, as usual, some of the national leaders are prejudiced, like Mr Voves, the head of state. On April 1, 2009, he spoke of a structural tax reform which he called for and which, from his point of view, was already in place on 1 April 2009. January 2010 is to enter into force and its package should include the introduction of new taxes, an increase in property tax and the recovery of inheritance and gift tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] Federal Chancellor! I would therefore ask you to take a clear position today. We need solidarity and tax reduction instead of a new tax burden in Austria. I would also like to hear from you here and to know it clearly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It can't be that you just came to the end in those areas that have been taxed several times – modest assets for which people have worked for their lives, have received loans, then they have laboriously generated themselves – and think, once again, that you have to start, or you have the house owners who might be up to 60. The loans, which were open until then, have been paid down for their housing, then want to be taxed and they should be paid once again, so that 30 years later the house can be generated again. These are perhaps your class-warring dreams in which you want to expropriate the people. – No, that cannot be the right policy! Strengthening the middle class is the right way, and that is where we will take you into responsibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! ==References====External links== April 2009 insists on the introduction of new property taxes. You too, Mr Bundeskanzler, have not excluded this in the last week – at least as far as further tax increases are concerned, you have not excluded them anymore. That means nothing but that the tax rate in Austria according to the plans of leading SPÖ functionaries – Mr. Federal Chancellor: leading SPÖ functionaries, officials of your government party! - apparently to be increased massively. However, you have set something else in the government programme, as there has been a definition between SPÖ and ÖVP, in which one confesses to reduce the tax and tax rate. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: This is happening now!]] I wonder, What's going on now? – Apparently, the left does not know what the rights are doing, here on this government bank. This is the impression that is also produced in the public. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are also accustomed to this by the disaster governments of recent years, because this was also previously similar to that of Gusenbauer and Molterer under Faymann and Pröll, which seems to be a happy continuation. I say quite consciously that this government is nothing but the personalised helplessness! You, Mr Finanzminister, also best presented this in the course of today's budget statement, by making a tax reform that does not deserve this name and by shattering a toothless bank package. The opposition has agreed to this, as has rightly been noted today – out of responsibility! – but in the context of which the promises of the former Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance Molterer have not been met. That is to say, we are told the untruth here in this House. We were told at the time: If the €15 billion state capital should ever be beaten and the Austrian banks really apply for this capital, then there will be legal requirements that we will discuss and define here in Parliament. – This promise has never been fulfilled! To date, there is no statement that the Court of Auditors is reviewing the balance sheets of these banks, whether they are correct, to date there is no manager responsibility in these areas, to date there are no guarantees that the Republic will call on these banks, such as supervisory councils, or that it may even assume percentage shares of banks on behalf of taxpayers in order to secure their tax money, until today there are no legal requirements and regulations that this money should be used exclusively to strengthen the Austrian internal market and for our domestic farmers and our small and medium-sized enterprises. Nevertheless, you go here and get 15 billion euros after the Austrian banks, although quite different requirements have been announced here. That's irresponsible! Then, Minister of Finance, you will come forward this morning and give a budget speech, which has included many flakes. Apparently, the flakes of your own speech were so embarrassing to you at the end that you did not have the final sentence, but I would like to remind you once again to illustrate the pathetic formulations. Here's what it says: “With a calm hand and firm will. With expertise and understanding. With sense for the necessary. Feeling for the potential. And responsibility for the whole.” [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: You can read, congratulate!]] There the Austrian population can cut off a slice! Good night, Austria!, in these anointing words, because you think that Austria could be sickened, Minister of Finance. You can't sicken Austria! It can be “sicked, ” as you have proved in recent years, but not sickly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So today you have tried to cover a certain failure of this government, we take note of that, but this budget is not a fight against the crisis, nor a timetable for the future. [[Ironic cheerfulness of German Chancellor Faymann and Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] We are facing an unusual situation, you have rightly said, but believe me, in an unusual situation, you will not be able to succeed with your political habit with which you approach the matter. [[Abg. Höfinger: You are masters of...!]] There is also the need for emergency measures to be put in place, because it does not need what you have decided, namely a clap that has been taken, because it needs a clap! Of course, from the outset we should have done a much deeper tax reduction and boost the economy with a package. You missed that! In a few months we'll be sitting here in this house, and you'll probably re-evaluate all of your numbers that you've been reviewing back and forth in the last few months, because you'll have new numbers every few months, and then you'll realize that you had to act earlier and ask the house for understanding again. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Why?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Now I'm telling you the following: 100 000 unemployed people cost the Republic €1.5 billion per year in additional costs. How many billions of people are afraid of 600,000 unemployed by the end of the year! We could have really opposed tax reduction at €6.5 billion in order to prevent this unemployment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You are not aware of what responsibility you have – but we will deal more closely with the subject tomorrow. Let's get back to the SPÖ! It therefore wants new taxes; They want new taxes. Instead of meeting the crisis with real structural measures, try to play a little class struggle, while the SPÖ has been a very successful help for many years when it came to opening the door to neoliberalism. There was no deregulation in the Maastricht Treaty, which was, among other things, not the wall of protection presented and not the protective wall of the European Union against the crisis, but, in part, the head of this crisis, by making these developments at all possible by deregulation. Try to present them differently today. That's where you've acted properly as a supporter of neoliberalism, and now you're pretending you didn't have anything to do with it. I wonder, Where were you when you halved the foundation tax from 5 to 2.5 percent and granted a discharge to the super-rich in this country? You decided to do this under red and black. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Prill: You were in government!]] The halving of the tax on the foundation was ultimately done by you, and not by me. [[Mr Tamandel and Dr. Matznetter.]] With regard to the abandonment of politicians, which would mean finally implementing a contribution of solidarity, where were you when we made applications to this House and demanded that the highest officials of the Republic and all politicians – from the President of the Federal Chancellor, the Government Bank to the members of this House, to the Land Days and to the Federal Council – be prepared to give up a salary of 4 per cent and to pay in the times of this crisis that we are experiencing today? There you were all covered! They all voted negatively against it. That is exactly what we would expect, and not new taxes! In order to recognize the need to reduce taxes, it takes solidarity instead of a class struggle, where tax reduction is needed. And we also know that economic experts like Mr Laffer, who rightly spoke of the Laffer curve, must not be surprised, if one celebrates today the highest tax burden on the Second Republic, if, at the end of the day, there are fewer tax revenues, because, of course, this also leads to companies moving into the shadow economy, into black work, and we could only regulate this if we were to properly reduce taxes by reducing tax rates and giving people more purchasing power and thus countering the shadow economy and black work. Interestingly, the economist Laffer also says that in the case of tax reductions even more revenue on taxes is possible, and it is not the way you always claim it: If you lower taxes, that means less revenue for the state. – No, in the case of wise measures, the opposite can be the case, which you unfortunately deny God. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When we look at the current economic development in Austria, we know that it is a huge challenge. There is no room for class struggle, there is also no room for internal-party neurosis, as they are currently taking place at SPÖ, since one should seriously deal with the topic. How does development in Austria look like in 2009? – The middle class is breaking more and more, the purchasing power has fallen, even if you often say the opposite – the Chamber of Commerce confirms that the purchasing power in Austria has unfortunately fallen in the last 15 years – and the financial situation of our small and medium-sized enterprises is in some areas not rusty, partly also a catastrophic one. And this is not the fault of the evil managers and the evil Manchester capitalists, who today may dream of Mr. Häupl, Mr. Voves and Mr. Faymann – no, these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have nothing to do with Manchester-Liberism, these are not bad managers who have put public money into the sand in the public sector! – No, these are businesses that secure most of the jobs in Austria, in our country and have already a very, very thin equity ceiling today. That's exactly who we want to stand by. Whoever speaks of new taxes in this crisis phase – and the chancellor party’s side is to introduce new taxes – is not only putting the future of our businesses at risk, but also at risk of tens of thousands of jobs, because of its natural uncertainty. With your tax plans you operate uncertainty towards the middle class! This is indifferent to you, I know, but we already want clear rules from your side today. I can only hold it once again and finally: What we need is not new taxes, but a reduction in the tax rate, from 42.8% to at least 39 percent, and this includes constitutionally anchored. Furthermore, the immense savings potential must be used! Let us finally implement the recommendations of the Austrian Convention! We sit in the context of the Austrian talks, to which the opposition parties are also invited, together: For years the results of the Austrian Convention have been available, they have been ignored for years! There has been no implementation in the direction of administrative reform for years now, and you really wonder: Who prevents you from finally putting these into practice? Special situations such as the current crisis also require special measures, which is why it is time for us to think seriously that we do not act as you have so far “may’s be a bit more than a bit more?” which we pay annually on net contributions to the European Union, then please put our own interests seriously in these special situations and demand that, as far as the contributions to the European Union are concerned, we do at least halve and provide the residual capital of our own population and of our own businesses and of our own families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need this money that you transfer to Brussels year after year, over €2.1 billion annually, € 800 million net – contributions we pay Austrians to Brussels. We need this money in our own country and not in the Brussels Tintenburg, and not in order to finance Turkish accession. We have a much better money. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also believe that it would be necessary for politicians, the highest officials and the so-called public managers to be recruited, to lower them, and to move forward with good examples in this crisis by starting with us, i.e. not automatic salary increases as they exist here year after year, which is why, as the so-called People's Representatives, we are not affected by the crisis. No, we should go ahead with a good example, not to reject the request made by the liberals, which we have made several times, namely to decide to reduce our salaries by 4 per cent, but to contribute somewhat as a real and serious contribution to solidarity. Although “only €7 million” brings savings potential, €7 million in times of crisis are not a small amount of money and a good signal, and we want to go there. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Signal!]] In times of massive increase in unemployment, we need to counter immigration to other areas: in the area of immigration to Austria, which one finally stops, no further immigration towards our labour market should continue to focus on the problem of the labour market, as you do. This is not only unfair to the people you are getting and making false promises, but also, ultimately, particularly unfair to the Austrians, because the social state is burdened with this, as Hans-Werner has predicted, and here a move takes place mainly in the social state and not in the labour market, and if it takes place in the labour market, it naturally leads to a displacement process in relation to Austrian workers. That's where you're going. This would free many, many money that today burden our social pots. We do not need imported unemployment – here you are unfortunately God's sumptuous. The debate on new taxes needs to be stopped immediately – new taxes insecure people and make it difficult to get out of the crisis – instead, let people get more money in the wallet and strengthen the purchase! Don't fuck and don't fuck! Make sure that we finally get started here! I therefore make the following request. Request for urgent action "The Federal Government, above all the Federal Chancellor, is invited to refrain from any attempts to introduce new taxes and additional taxes during the current legislative period and not to take any measures to increase existing taxes and taxes. The Federal Government is also called upon to draw up a government template to ensure the collection of a temporary and fair solidarity contribution from top-ranking earners intended to combat youth unemployment.” [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That would be a socially responsible way, which is certainly not your way, Federal Chancellor. We are now very excited about your answers.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15526	Mr Klubobmann, the urgent request has already been tabled. In order to deliver an opinion, the Federal Chancellor spoke. Mr Bundeskanzler, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15551	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say a few words about the request: In his speech, Mr Strache explained in detail what everything in our Republic is not going on properly, and then made a proposal as the only consequence, so that it really becomes fair, solidarian, social and correct, namely by demanding a solidarity contribution from a small group of people whom he did not even count in his speech – Mr. Strache, probably you do not know how many it is – 1 percent of the tax base they are supposed to pay – but you also could not say how much comes in. [[Abg. Blow: Reduce taxes! Mr Chancellor, you know our tax reduction proposals! Our tax reduction packages you know of 6.5 billion!]] And that is the "true" alternative economic policy you are always talking about! [[Abg. Street: 6.5 billion tax reduction, that's the alternative!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can stop already! It's all right! You don't have to go into everything!]] However, Mr Strache, I also remember very closely: When you were still jointly responsible for the ÖBB and invested in a financial product – until today we have not been able to write off the possible losses in the balance sheet – the ÖBB was bought from the Minister of Finance, who had the following background: You take responsibility, get money for it, and it's supposed to have no risk! – The Minister responsible for the ÖBB at the time has believed that the managers you ordered at the time also believed this, and that has been bought – and today we do not agree to write down the losses of your speculation at that time! [[Call the FPÖ: Mr. Häupl too!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Well, I think so! That's where the chickens laugh, Chancellor!]] Therefore, in the case of financial speculation from the United States and also the speculations that have occurred in Austria, it is not necessary to look for so long in order to find in the companies a series of management decisions which do not correspond to the way in which we want them in the future as a consequence of the crisis. [[Abg. Strache: In Vienna, the tram and canal that you have destroyed on American companies!]] [[Abg. Strache: The Channel Life in Vienna!]] We want to strengthen the real economy, not promote speculation and financial products there and not simply take over uncontrollably simply because someone claims that he can produce a lot of percentage of interest without someone having to work something real for it, but we want to return to those principles that have made our country strong, to small and medium-sized enterprises, to the real-economic principles, to balance sheet guidelines that strengthen the real economy rather than speculation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] We want European financial market control, which also deserves this name, a financial market control that indicates such mismanagements in good time. [[Abg. Just like in the past, isn't it? A financial market surveillance that silences and fails everywhere! A great performance!]] All these are consequences of the crisis that we should draw, and a series of misbehaviors that have taken place under your responsibility. A political-polemic discussion on unemployment and youth unemployment does not bring us forward. Something that brings us forward has already been clarified in today's debate and in Mr Vice-Chancellor's budget speech: We are fighting the crisis with determined means – on the one hand, to secure the financial market with a unanimous decision of a bank package that you have voted in, but since then always in intermediate calls say that you still wanted something different than then... [[Abg. Strache: The Minister of Finance Molterer has promised! Here on the government bank! Readable in the Minutes!]] You agreed to vote in favour of this package at the time. [[Abg. Strache: That means that false facts have been set up!]] You remember that you stood up and agreed to – you will have read the text of the law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] You certainly also remember that all were for that, in the preliminary discussions, everyone said: Yes, it needs our economy! [[Abg. Strache: With other criteria discussed here!]] And now, because a few people are asking how the bank package and this financial market work, now you have the impression that you could gain something from political small money by acting against bank packages, and you want to forget your consent back then and have a little bit with it when it comes to whether this bank package is necessary or not. [[Abg. Blow: No control!]] I tell you, in order to secure the deposits of the population, to promote and support the banks, that they can provide small and medium-sized enterprises, but also industrial firms in the country again with durable loans that are necessary to finance orders from the order books, we need the bank package – and not your polemics! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: It should not be thought to stop speculation holes!]] It is therefore the question of how to combat unemployment, when you know that all forecasts are pointing upwards, and we do not wish to self-evidently simply refer to the statistics, to the fact that we are second best in Europe. There is no reason to be complacent in the context of unemployment, but there is no reason in the context of promoting employment, combating unemployment every good reason to mobilise everything that is possible nationally, within the framework of the European Union or beyond. This includes a tariff, a tax reduction, including the support that has already been very often given to families, which includes the strengthening of purchasing power. I have often been asked in the election campaign whether this reduction in taxes, this reduction in tariffs, which is not a tax reform within the meaning of a new just structure of taxes, but rather a reduction in tariffs, support for the purchasing power of the population, for example as counter-financing, will result in a tax increase. [[Abg. Bucher:... honest word!]] [[Abg. Bucher: You have always said “tax reform”!]] We have and I have said in the election campaign: No, we will finance this tax reduction through economy in our budget, and it remains. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Pröll said yesterday,...!]] We therefore want to have that principle debate, which will be entirely independent of the measures to combat unemployment, in a structural reform committee which has a different objective of not even taxing middle classes, not at all, to meet people who live on their property in a small house, or hireers or owners. In a principle discussion on tax justice, we want to ask the question – and in this respect all in this House, I believe, are of an opinion from the principle; at least after your speeches here –: As can be seen in the context of wage and income tax – in the case of taxes on wages and income, we are far above the statistics of the European Union; we have one of the highest taxes; you will not hear this for the first time today, Mr. Col. – how can we benefit from this tax reduction also for those people who belong to the middle class of our country, who deserve 2,000, 3,000 € grossly and are affected relatively quickly, of course, these people also benefit from this tariff reduction, but this does not make the system fair; the tariff reduction is a measure from which they now benefit, but the system remains the same – a change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But of you we hear this for the first time!]] In a tax reform commission, we will have to talk about how a system that has a flatter curve in which the total burden of wage and income tax is lower, but which provides for other possibilities in terms of wealth, such as on the stock market, then in those times where income can be expected. This basic structural discussion with regard to tax justice, which should ultimately bring about a form of relief, is not easy. [[Abg. Booker: I wish you luck!]] If you say you wish us good luck, I remember how difficult the administrative and constitutional discussions are. [[Abg. Bookers: And God’s blessing too!]] Working groups were set up in the Convention – I was not in it at the time – to discuss how many proposals of the economy which the Court of Auditors has made can also be implemented. You know there are countless resistances. There is hardly any interest group that is happy to implement such proposals. [[Abg. Kickl: Most are either red or black!]] [[Abg. That's why you raised the social partners to the constitutional rank! It's all right!]] You know, the social partners and their importance and involve them in a discussion, that is the right way! [[Abg. Strache: And in the constitutional rank!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: But not in the constitutional rank!]] The debate on sparingness, the debate on the administrative reform, the discussion on administrative and constitutional reform must be held where conflicts may also have to be fought with the federal states – but not in hostility, where, by the way, nothing would come out, even a good Council. Discussions with those in charge of the federal states, with those in charge of different interest groups, should be conducted fairly, correctly and openly. This is, of course, a very difficult process, in which not a few people in our country ask themselves whether this process will actually be successful – or whether we should not give up these discussions, because everyday effort is too great because the contradictions and conflicts are too big and the public debate is too controversial. It will, of course, show how strong this government is, but it will also show itself – I am saying this because it is also about the situation of a two-thirds majority – how much cooperation in this House, how strong and serious the cooperation between the different parties is, namely, in times of an economic crisis that has been said for many years: Measures, certainly in smaller and larger steps, to the administrative and constitutional reform, which will help to save where possible. For nothing easier, it will be a structural reform on taxes, and nothing will make it easier for a tax commission to be set up on fair taxes. The question, therefore, is not who is able here in the House to prevent this process through particularly cynical remarks, through particularly sinister calls, through particularly cheap polemics, but the question will be: Who is working with this, and is able to work together in this house to make sure that we save where we can save, that we make changes there, where it is controversial, but right? [[Abg. That's what we see!]] And the further question will be: Are we together strong enough to promote fair taxation, to dispel any, quite mutual, accusations regarding tax increases – and to put us together and consistently pursue what the Court of Auditors has already proposed countless times? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] I invite you all, ladies and gentlemen, because I am convinced that the population would benefit greatly if they felt that we are not masters of mutual accusations here, but that in times of economic crisis we are masters in implementing clear reforms for a strong Austria and for a just society. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] [[Abg. When are you talking to Mr. Voves and Mr. Häupl?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15988	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. The first is Mr Themessl. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16017	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor, I really don't know where you're going if you're going to tell our clubman H.C. Strache that he's just trying to meet a few and he can't calculate what's going on under the line. [[Abg. Faul: This is a question of intelligence!]] Now ask yourself here and say, of course, you do not want to burden the house builder, even the middle class – therefore my question: Did you imagine that in the future perhaps 1 000 super-rich in Austria will receive 8.2 million Austrians? – I don’t know how you imagine it, and I don’t know how you expected it. Mr Vice-Chanceller Pröll claims that there will be no new taxes without ÖVP, and I wonder what he thought yesterday at the Federal Council survey, where he said quite clearly that at the moment there is no need to think of a tax increase, but of course everyone must be clear that if this first phase is over, additional expenditure will of course be covered by a tax increase. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Reverse!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Street: Yesterday in the Federal Council!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I wasn't in the Federal Council yesterday!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Then you have to find out what Pröll really said; You can ask him yourself. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I wasn't in the Federal Council!]] [[Abg. Grill: Who said that?]] The fact is, in your government program you decided not to introduce new taxes. Now, however, it starts quite slowly that you are suddenly talking about an asset tax, as well as a reintroduction of the inheritance tax, but at the same time you say that you do not want to burden the housekeeper, the middle class. This is bound by absurdity, which you give of yourself in this respect; all of this can never be achieved! On the other hand, this morning in the budget speech, Minister of Finance and Vice-Chancellor Pröll, said that he had carried out the biggest tax reform of all time, with the tax reform decided here in March of this year. Mr. Vice-Chanzler also said that 2.7 million Austrians are no longer paying taxes – and you have tried to do so as a success. This, Mr Vice-Chancellor, is a Hiobs message, because you admit that 2.7 million Austrians deserve so little that it is not even possible for them to pay taxes because they already live on the edge of poverty! At this point this government has led us! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pröll, I wonder what it is for You make a budget at all, because you never stick to it anyway. In addition, a few figures: As regards the tax burden in the European comparison, Austria is the fifth place, with a tax rate of 43 percent. As far as the increase in real gross earnings in the EU comparison is concerned, Austria is fourth in place – and this is also proof that it is far from true with purchasing power in our country. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: We have a record consumption!]] In 2006, you had budgeted expenditure of €66.2 billion, but actual expenditure of €70.5 billion; in 2007, according to the Federal estimates, expenditure of €69.6 billion and actual expenditure of €72.3 billion. In 2008: budgeted expenditure: € 69.9 billion; actual expenditure: 73.6 billion €. You spent €10.7 billion in three years more than you actually had budgeted. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I'm four months Minister of Finance!]] – Then it was your predecessor; at least someone from your party, if you don’t know; otherwise you ask Wilhelm Molterer. [[Abg. Strache: He was there in charge of government!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New interim remark from Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] For the year 2009, Mr Pröll, Minister of Finance, budget an end of €13.5 billion, but: If your budget policy continues as it has started in the last three years, we will have a loss of at least €17 to 18 billion at the end of 2009; we are already well over 4 percent, if not already at 5% of GDP! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: The stitch says we're going to knock!]] And now you're talking about introducing an inheritance tax and an additional asset tax! You know, in the inheritance tax, the desired social policy distribution effect is low, but the administrative burden and the economic damage you are doing with it is far too high, but obviously you do not know that in the next few years there are thousands of businesses in front of a takeover. Substance taxation of these plants, which are in front of a transfer, will then be enormous. An asset tax increases the capital costs for companies – and what you do not know or do not say about it is that a reintroduction of the property tax would of course also affect exactly those you do not want to meet, as you say, because this would result in a significant rent increase. So before you give such nonsense of yourself, please think about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16233	Mr Faul has just left the meeting room, but I am still saying that he is in favour of the statement: “This is a question of intelligence!” received an order call. The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16278	Madam President. I think it is a rather chuzpe that that group, which has first submitted to the Minister for Finance, is making such a request here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Federal Chancellor, I have the suspicion that you have ordered these urgent ones!]] It is only necessary to consider what this Minister of Finance has done; we all know him, namely Karl-Heinz Grasser, the only Minister of Finance from the FPÖs to date. Under Minister of Finance Grasser, there has been the highest tax and tax rate in the history of the Second Republic. And here there are representatives of the party and say that they would be worried about any tax increases in this federal government, i.e. the same representatives who in the past, when there was a Finance Minister from the FPÖ series, set up a new record in relation to the then tax and tax rate. [[Abg. Strache: Don't you know that grasses are attributable to the ÖVP?]] What is always quite practical is to look at what the liberals did in the area of taxes and taxes when they were in government. We have now made a tax reform, a tariff reduction of over €3 billion, for various groups which we have defined quite clearly before. Those who do not pay a wage or income tax still pay a number of social taxes and other taxes because it always means that there are so many who do not pay any taxes at all, I do not know. [[Abg. Bucher: It is a difference between taxes and taxes, we already know!]] I know only people who do not pay wage and income taxes, but who are very likely to pay social security contributions, are very likely to pay VAT, consumer taxes and so on. Let's see what we've done for this group: We have already reduced taxes in a first step of 300 million, which means, on average, a tax reduction of 25 € per month for the individual. What did the Freedom Party do for this group when it was in government? - Zero euros! That's the difference: Zero Euro and 25 € per month! What have the liberals done for the average income earner? I remember very well. With the so-called largest tax reform of all time, the average relief for a middle income beneficiary was €7 per month. [[Abg. Strache: Now we have 5 € as an average! At that time it was at least 2 € more!]] Now we're over 35 €, that's five times! Just so we can see the dimensions right here. Let's look at what we've done, what the liberals like to forget over and over again, because it's unpleasant to them: We have also abolished something that the liberals have introduced, because the tax advantage for Stock Options up to €35 000 a year has been deleted. That is what the liberals have introduced, and we have deleted it together in the great coalition. This is the difference between knocking and knocking, between talking and acting. Because you're talking about tax reduction and you're worried... - Who? – We have increased taxes for people who have so far been able to deposit for Stock Options €35 000 a year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] We can't do that anymore. We have increased taxes for these. We have also deleted the preferential taxation for untapped profits. That's what you've introduced, we've deleted it again. This is the difference between how you operate politics here and how we do it. [[Abg. Strache: Now you say the tax reduction is due to the crisis! That's absurd!]] I do not want to go much further than Mr Laffer's findings. If you really have an epigon of neoclassicism and, in fact, people whose ideas are primarily responsible for the way in which this crisis arose and how it goes, please, read more than the headlines! Why don't you go 10 minutes with Mr. Laffer and with the Cato Institute et cetera? I hope you'll get up the gray bears. To quote that, I'd think about it. But also an open word on the question of such property taxes or capital taxes, capital gains taxes. – This is relatively simple. You can earn your money in different ways. There are people who work for their money. They pay 30, 40, 50, 55 percent taxes and taxes, so very much. And there are people who let work and earn about interest, dividends, stock speculation their money. [[Abg. Street: The 98 percent who work leave you alone!]] They pay zero up to 25 percent taxes. That's the difference: The person who goes to work pays a lot of taxes, even for small incomes, and the one who does not work himself pays very low taxes. And everyone should ask themselves the question: Is that just or isn't that just? I'll tell you: With the one who goes to work for his money, let's go down the taxes. And someone who lets work and thus earns his money, he should also pay a fair contribution like everyone else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is the duty of the Tax Reform Commission to look at the structure, the injustices that exist in the tax system, and to make our tax system more just. It has nothing to do with envy or anything else, but with justice. And this discussion is also independent of any economic situation, which we conducted a year ago, because justice knows no economics, there must be justice in good times as well as in bad times. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And that's not fair. We want more justice here, and we will also be happy to have this discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16413	Mr Bartenstein has now come to speak. 7 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16434	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Madam President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Finance Minister Josef Pröll has spoken today in his very remarkable budget speech, among other things, of the fact that the 2009 tax reform is the largest tax relief for decades with a volume of just over €3.2 billion, and has also said that this tax relief is now starting with taxpayers. At the same time, we know that this tax relief, together with the economic packages, is probably the most important means towards consumers – I do not mean banks – in order to keep consumption up and indirectly promote investment. Whether it is happening in this environment, ladies and gentlemen, a tax discussion, which, of course, is also a tax increase discussion – you are surprised, Mr Krainer, and speak of tax justice discussion; the Federal Chancellor has also said it a little in this direction – to lead, I dare to doubt. I wonder if this does not narrow a certain optimism, which would actually be appropriate in the light of this tax reform, among our citizens. Of course, it was not the Federal Chancellor, of course not the Financial Speaker, but Hand in Hand, there were enough votes, nor for that in the Car Week, from the Social Democracy, which have caused some doubts: How do we now keep up with the subject of taxes – tax increase or yet abandon it? On the one hand, national leaders – I have to speak in the majority –, ÖGB representatives, AK presidents and others, and on the other hand social democratic icons such as Androsch and Vranitzky, who have resisted massively, in written comments. So they can't have been misinterpreted, they have written these comments themselves, Mr. Krainer, in some newspapers. I would have liked the Federal Chancellor to have become more clear today in the absence of a tax-invention and tax-examination discussion. If there was talk of a wealth on the stock exchange here, then I have to say, some who have been in politics for a few weeks now, the nightingale hears a little kick. Looks like: The discussion is there, we have to lead them. But, Mr Themessl, one thing is clear: I do not know what happens without EIA in terms of taxes, but with the EIA there will be neither new taxes nor tax increases, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The title of your urgent request, Mr Strache, is not a bad one, but the content leaves much to be desired: ‘Solidarity instead of class struggle’. – Yes, solidarity needs it. And the discussion, Mr. Krainer, we all have. And there we can be quite satisfied: In these months, the Wifo says that the upper third of taxpayers in this country pay 64 percent of the tax volume, but only 40 percent of the amount of benefits under the title Social, Health and Education. The lower third pays only 9 percent of the tax revenue, but accounts for 29 percent of this volume of performance from these three sectors. The Europe-wide, a little hard-to-understand – but there is nothing better – Gini coefficient, a measure of distribution justice in terms of taxes and income, does not look bad for Austria, because of the 15 old EU Member States Denmark and Sweden are better and even more distributive if one wants to do so than we do, then we come. The Germans are a little worse. [[Abg. Krainer: The tax reform has made this a bit fairer, and that is good!]] – Your calls point to a certain degree of nervousness, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This request by the Liberals is not a real targeter in content, since the Federal Chancellor is quite right: If the only means to meet the crisis is a solo supplement for people who deserve more than the Federal President, na greeting God. We had this calculated by the financial sector and by the Minister of Finance Pröll, which amounted to just €30 million. [[Abg. Krainer: 12!]] So in symbolism it would be more a bit toward more envy and satisfaction of basic emotions than anything else. And, Federal Chancellor, what you didn't report: The request only speaks of a period of one year. Interesting in the discussion with our government partner is a little bit that – I say so now – the left wants to introduce taxes in the SPÖ – also a head of state who comes from a federal country that I know very, very well – which was partly abolished by the SPÖ itself. Lacina has abolished the property tax for good reason, as Androsch has repeatedly quoted. He abolished them in the nineties – by the way, with a certain John Ditz on his side. And that's what I'm saying: Chuzpe. This is a little bit of a chuzpe, if more or less the same people come here a few years later and want to introduce it again. That's what they say in Vienna. – So much on the subject of property tax. The subject of inheritance and gift tax: It was the Federal Chancellor himself who heard the government, who had this inheritance and gift tax with effect 1. It was abolished by July. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of property tax, it is already true that statistics say that elsewhere they are higher. But, Mr Bundeskanzler, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, we are quite honest and we are also conducting the discussion as it should be. Otherwise, land taxes and land taxes are not taxes on money assets. Elsewhere are the taxes that would naturally meet house-keepers, second-country owners, medium-sized enterprises and farmers. So if you want to have such a discussion, we'll lead it, but honestly, and then we'll say who'd meet it. Similarly, it deals with capital gains tax. These exist in Austria, by the way, but with certain deadlines. After a year of stock ownership, after ten years of land ownership, you don't have to pay that anymore. As the deadlines can be extended, one can already discuss. But look at Germany, ladies and gentlemen. In Germany, the Fiscus is thinking about how many hundred million euros it has to repay to those people who bought shares just a year ago, who want to sell and claim the loss tax. So there is the way, at all events, a pay-off tax or a Kest-set in conjunction with a corresponding extension of the time limit. But there is also a need to conduct the discussion objectively and honestly. And now – last but not least – to the top taxes, because to the property taxes the sister party of the Federal Chancellor in Berlin a few days ago not Yes, but very likely to increase the peak tax rate from 45 percent to 47 percent. You know how high the peak tax rate is with us, Mr. Krainer: 50 percent! [[Abg. Krainer: 43 percent!]] Stay with the truth: 50 percent! [[Abg. Krainer: What about 13th and 14th? You have to count it!]] Mr Krainer, you also know what an increase in the framework They agreed: from 51 000 to 60 000 € per year. From this framework, the maximum tax rate in Austria is due. Do you know how high it is in Germany? – For single earners and single taxpayers €250 000, for married couples € 500 000. So if you want to introduce German relations with us, we can do that. This SPD position is quite compatible with mine.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16525	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. 7 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16546	Thank you, Madam President. Estimated members on the government bank! High house! Today we are talking about the latest ideas of the “FPÖ think factory”. The “FPÖ think factory” wants to ask the top earners to check out. Now I'm not sure you've done this. I made the effort. I looked at who would be asked to check out in Austria. It is said and written 2 600 Austrians who earn more than €319,000 a year, you have specified this limit in your paper. And that's where they say and write 8.6 million euros in revenue. [[Abg. Dr. Königsberger-Ludwig: Solidarish!]] €8.6 million is coming in. And now I ask you, Mr Klubobmann Strache: Do you want to open the Pandora's boxes? Do you want to open the Pandora's boxes for this €8.6 million? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] I'm talking about your request. [[Abg. Stache: My application concerns top officials, politicians!]] In your request, it is literally stated that everyone who deserves more than the Federal President should cover 1 per cent. [[Abg. Street: For a year!]] That's right. If you calculate this, then in a year, €8.6 million will come out. Okay, you got it now? So 8.6 million euros. However, these €8.6 million would open the Pandora canals. You demand, and this is the schizophrene, Mr. Strache, you demand here... [[Abg. Strache: What kind of box of the Pandora?]] Just listen to me! They call on FPÖs to stop any efforts to plan tax increases here. [[Abg. Strache: No tax increases are planned!]] – No, these are not taxes, of course not! That's a solidarity contribution! Now we're at the Pandora canals. Faith Don't you also think that the Minister of Finance is so intelligent and that other taxes are simply taxing as a solidarity contribution or other contribution? I would warn you, Mr Strache, and I believe we agree here too, we do not need new taxes. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Bucher.]] If you're asking for taxes here, populist change coins here quickly, then I can only tell you that's the wrong way. [[Abg. Strache: If you don't know what taxes are, then it's worth taking note of!]] Government parties that generally introduce taxes – and then I am even closer to the SPÖ that has made some proposals here – are government parties that introduce taxes in the crisis are like a sick person who, instead of looking for healing, is simply ordered more pain tablets. You know where this leads if you do not go to the root of the problem, but only fight the causes. That's why my demand is: Hands away from taxes! If you want to ask the service providers or top earners to check out, one thing is quite certain, Mr Finanzminister knows exactly where to get something. It will then get it right back to the middle class, and we probably don't want it both. So get away from new taxes! And I would ask you to act accordingly. If you look at the SPÖ now, I have to say, it's very interesting. The SPÖ has had Mr Voves from Styria develop a programme that concerns the future of Austrian taxes. This includes capital gains tax, wealth tax, even machine taxes. So if you look at this a little bit in detail, then you really have to say that a wealth increase tax in the present time is almost a cock. Where is there an increase? The wealth has shrunk, shrunk, shrunk in recent years. Where's an increase here? That is to say, the discussion about a capital increase tax at the present time is completely missing and absolutely inappropriate. If you really want to get something, it's the big fortune. There you can really get something, but they've gone well for a long time, and the whole thing with the support of the SPÖ, which then introduced this foundation law. [[Abg. Booker: Lacina!]] That's right, Lacina was the usual suspect and just got the big fortunes you could really ask to check out. There's really nothing to get. If I hear something from Mr Voves about machine tax, I believe that this can only be justified by trying to enter the political heritage of his communist friend, Mr Kaltenegger, because otherwise it is not clear why a machine tax is required here. That's not even disputable. We do not need new taxes, we do not need new FPÖ taxes, but what we need is an administrative reform, and we need a consensus on what the state should and can do. I miss it. We need that, and we need it very quickly. Whenever the budgetary resources are scarce, one comes up with the most whistling ideas. The SPÖ, now also the FPÖ and the Greens are always demanding new taxes. The ÖVP has a different approach. The ÖVP makes this quite skillful at all, which, mainly with ministers of the other party, i.e. the SPÖ, simply put together the budget and then gives the order to be more economical. And if the Minister wants to carry out this task in terms of more sparingness, then you go here and torpede her with your own union. [[Call:]] That's right, then, after strike, the minister is presented, so to speak, which is what makes you walk into the open knife. And after that, they say, yes, they gave her free hand anyway. – That’s not how it can be done! And if that's the way it does, I can tell you that we're never going to get an administrative reform on the way. This is what ÖVP is to blame. The ÖVP has, in fact, carried the administrative reform, which it has been so anointingly postulated to the grave. They have carried this administrative reform to the grave, because now exactly what has happened to Mrs. Schmied will happen: They will all strike, and then the tail will be pulled in. And that's the point. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You have now launched this reform with a mogel pack into the knife and distributed it from one bag to the other. Because if the BIG just gets less rent, then it can't be State-political, and that's what the ÖVP has to answer. [[Abg. Grill: Why are you chatting with us like that?]] A reporter once asked me what we really want – do we want to save or invest now? And I told him we both wanted to. We want to save where it makes sense, for example in the administration. We want to save where the Court of Auditors says there is a possibility of saving there, in public administration, with teachers. We were always in favour of the teachers working more. [[Abg. Hornek: An example! One!]] For example, this is an example, but there are many other areas where there is a need to save. On the other hand, we must also invest, and we must invest where it brings something for the future. That is, we need to invest where we can become energy self-sufficient, where we can clean up thermally, where we can do our homework. There we have to invest, but not 50 or 100 million, which one shifts from one pot to another, but substantial. This is also the only point where I consent – I have 10 minutes – that you can make more debts. [[Abg. Krainer: Talk time!]] The only point! Debts are made only for the future and not for any budgetary measures that are far too short. They wanted a concrete measure: Take a look at our flat-tax model! Look You'll see that would be a fair tax model, that's fairness! Look This is what you are looking at – then we can talk about it again!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16750	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16771	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has forgotten to explain what the "wetx" tax model should be. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I am grateful for the indication that there are pain tablets in the Pandora canals. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what the bar now believes!]] Given the contributions of FPÖ and BZÖ, I think that we should also consider a prescription requirement for certain speeches. It's not all reasonable what's being done here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If the Federal Chancellor speaks enigmaticly and cannot make himself understandable, this is usually an indication that he does not want to make himself understandable. This time it is a term, and that means “possibility tax. ” Now we could just practice each other until the word “potential tax” comes across the chancellor’s lips without stocking – I do not want your party to say “potential tax” without any hesitation, because “potential tax” has to be said. It is no different, Mr Krainer has already pointed out. Only, colleague Krainer: With the wealth tax please do not go to one of your Commission's sites, because we need them as soon as possible, at least one entry into property taxation, for a simple reason that you know, which the Federal Chancellor knows and which most know in this House: The crisis will not be dealt with on the expenditure side, and many of the additional expenditure needed in the crisis will have to be financed. And all of this is not about indebtedness, something has to be done on the revenue side. You have two options: You can continue to ask those people who already bear the main burden of getting out of the crisis – those are the workers, the workers, the one-person companies, the small and medium-sized enterprises – that is, all those who are not responsible for the fact that not only Austria has been led into the world economic crisis, or you can tax the rich. There are only these two alternatives. It is not about taxing the rich exclusively, but it is about taxing the rich for the first time in Austria after a long time. That's the point. They know the figures from the Ministry of Social Affairs, from the wealth report, which is grateful: 1 percent of the population of Austria has 34 percent of its assets, 9 percent have another third of its assets, and the remaining 90 percent of the population share the last third. These are the people who work who pay the lion's share of consumption, wages and income tax. On the other hand, look at what the rich in Austria pay for taxes today, take as an example the foundations! If you have invested €10 million in fund assets today, then you have a real asset tax of about 4.5 percent, over time, it is €100 million, the tax decreases to 1.5 percent, and the sum goes over €1 billion, then the Foundation's real tax burden in the area is of 0.3 percent. – These are the facts in Austria. [[Abg. Hornek: Mathematics is not your strength, is it?]] Now away from the SPÖ, from this budget, which has been completely missed in this respect – and this, Federal Chancellor, is the main accusation to make to you: that, despite your support from your party, despite support from other political camps, you have not had the courage, in addition to those who are already under great tax burdens, to finally cause the rich to contribute to the ways out of the crisis and to the educational and social state! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't understand! I do not understand why a budget is presented here, which, in general, carries only the manuscript of the Austrian People's Party, even after Gusenbauer. Now to the Freedom Party. – Mr Klubobmann Strache, you have not told the plenary and present Members that you are speaking to a single person today, namely Hans Digand. Your speech should have started as follows: Mr. Digand, I know the dog/tail problem. I know you're the dog who's riding with the Federal Chancellor, and I, H.-C. [[Abg. Strache: Who are you yelling at now?]] Stache, tell you, Mr Dienand, I would like to be the second cock you can ride with. [[Abg. Strache: Which editor are you talking to now? Have you consumed anything today?]] [[More calls to the liberals, including:Are you not quite close?]] This is, of course, unusual in the animal world, but in politics much is possible, which is not possible in the animal world. That is why: Your offer to a Stiftung billionaire who lets his editors wound their fingers write that something is done against the property tax, the nuclear tax, the wealth tracking tax and so on, although everyone knows exactly who can read and calculate a little bit, that this is not about the small income, not about the small homeowner, about nothing in this way, but about the assets of the riches of the richest in this Republic, of which you want to buy appropriate editorials. [[Abg. Strache: You, Mr Pilz, live in a social community building, although you can afford a private home at any time! You, Mr Pilz, live in a community building, take away other people a social home, although you earn 10,000 € gross!]] Mr Strache, you have changed the pages politically with this urgent request. They have turned against the little people and towards the side of the foundation billionaires. [[Abg. Strache: You live in the social community building and take away poor people's apartment, Mr. Deputies!]] Today you represent the interests of Hans Dichand, Julius Meinl, Karl-Heinz Grasser and probably also of such wealthy people as Mensdorff-Pouilly and Haselsteiner. These are the Austrian women whose interests you represent in this house today. [[Abg. Strache: You live in the social community building!]] Explain why you do everything, up to the referral of the Austrian National Council to defend the tax privileges of the richest in this Republic! Why do you no longer represent the interests of “small” people, as you call them, but the interests of a small minority, the richest in this republic? [[Abg. Street: On the contrary!]] Call us alternatives! Do you really want to reduce the tax rate in times of the economic crisis when it comes to financing public tasks, creating public demand? Who is to replace the missing billions? Does the ÖVP of the Republic of Austria pay what is missing from the Minister of Finance because of your absurd proposals? [[Abg. Strache: An administrative reform would be reasonable once! But it's clear to you that this is totally...!]] I'll tell you one thing: Everyone here in this House – and this is not just the Freedom Party – will have to decide on which side is the majority of this National Council. [[Abg. Strache: Certainly not on the communist side, Mr. Pilz!]] Our political objective is to find, as far as possible, a majority for fair taxation with Members of all political groups over the next few months. We must protect the victims of the crisis, we must protect those who are unjustly in need and who do not know how to deal with the crisis – and we must get the money for it where the money is to be collected: with the richest. That is, wealth taxation, and that means entering wealth taxation. [[Abg. You want to exploit the middle class! That's exactly what you want!]] That is what the Federal Chancellor knows, the SPÖ, and those in the ÖVP who want to represent small and medium-sized enterprises and the one-person companies, of course know the green group, and perhaps it still speaks in parts of the liberal group. Perhaps in the future we could save ourselves urgent requests of this kind. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16983	Mr Weinzinger has now come to speak. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17004	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that Mr Pilz is here and there is something strange about it is known not only to this House, but also to a large part of the population of our beautiful homeland. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hörl.]] But this time it was completely absurd, I have to say. What honourable Member Pilz has done out of his fingers is lacking any comparison. Now we would be or would be our clubman at once a cheap tool in the hands of Mr. Digand and the “Kronen Zeitung” – especially we, which we are constantly adapted by both this “Kronen Zeitung” and other media! [[Abg. May. Kogler: G’rad that's it!]] We do not support the game of any newspapers, we do not support the game of any great earner, we do not support the game of any ladies and gentlemen who have secured their assets so that it cannot be subject to any wealth taxation in the future. [[New call to the Greens.]] The corresponding tax legislation came from SPÖ-side. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make it clear: Today, the Freedom Party has used one of its opposition rights and has made a urgent request regarding “Solidarity instead of Class Fight”. It has asked for something with this resolution which is quite legitimate and quite concrete. After our clubman and Federal Party officer have presented what our idea is, our opinion is what our criticism points are – finally and finally, we must not only criticise the government's policy as an opposition and precisely and critically examine it; that is our duty! – the Federal Chancellor has risen, and we have not seen his normal jovial smile on his face. [[Call the ÖVP: I can imagine that!]] It was suddenly stoned. It was more than stoned, it was bitter. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Then he gave accusations of himself and said there was no alternative to this federal government and, above all, not to this Federal Chancellor. As evidence, he argued that some of the ministers put by the FPÖ some years ago were mis-estimated, a mis-evaluation, which has also been under-estimated by many other socialist government members and government members in the countries and cities. [[Abg. Strache: And then changed to BZÖ!]] We know what you are talking about, and we, the Freedom Party – and I particularly remember it very well – have fought these cross-border business in the Upper Austrian Landtag in the nineties. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: In Vienna equally distributed, canal sales, trams!]] Then he accused the political party, who is in opposition, that by its actions – he calls it so – it wants to collect political small money, actually wants to impress the population. Yes, what else should a political party do than say to the population: We're behind you, as we mean!Unknown term type: "%s".? This is then blamed by the Federal Chancellor, with a very hard facial expression. [[Abg. Strache: He's done this now, the grins, the troubles!]] He then failed to provide any information on a planned administrative reform, absolutely no information. He has promised that the so-called tax reform – which he himself says is not actually a tax reform, but only a tariff adjustment – will not be financed by new taxes, but has still not excluded the fact that there is an asset tax. – Mr Krainer would like to have a discussion about the introduction of a property tax. He doesn't want to get out of her way. I can make a contribution to you, Mr Krainer, in the debate. I quote: “... because there were good reasons why Minister of Finance Lacina abolished property tax and commercial tax, the top rate was reduced from 60 to 50 percent and a final tax on capital income was introduced. The reasons are still valid” – writes a contemporary on 17 March. April, that is, a few days ago, “where the following arguments can be made: The asset tax was abolished as of 1.1.1994, and last year the asset tax was collected – after today’s money – “720 million. Euro, of which 80 percent paid for businesses, which meant an investment brake." Ladies and gentlemen, and the same would happen now! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That also says this contemporary witness, and that is no one less than Hannes Androsch, a highly regarded social democrat. Therefore: No new taxation, but solidarity and, finally, a real administrative reform! That could bring us something.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17130	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak. Mr President, you know the provisions: in 2 minutes first of all, the corrective situation to be corrected, then the corrected one.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17164	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker claimed that some Minister would have done something some years ago. I'm correcting: That's wrong! [[Abg. Vilimsky: This is not an actual correction! So, Madam President, really!]] It is true that these speculations were carried out five years ago and the name of the Minister Hubert Gorbach was.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17214	This has not been an actual correction, we agree on that. The next item is Mr Matznetter. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17238	Where is Mr Weinzinger? – Whoever's been listening to him now has noticed, that's a little hit. The social coat at the FPÖ really seems to be gone. But right on the subject of your urgent request today: We have a strong President here in the House, Mr Faul has received a call for order – of course I do not repeat what he has said, perhaps just go into the reasons given. Mr Klubobmann Strache, you will write in your request: ‘Lastly, it is an undisputed realization that, in the case of disproportionate tax quotas, tax resistance is rising (Laffer curve) and less tax revenue is to be expected.’ Are you aware of what that meant? If the income decreases, of course the tax and tax rate will also fall, which is calculated as a ratio of the total tax revenue to the gross domestic product. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Matznetter, not so many technical terms, please!]] If you already write such things, you should try to quote the text correctly. What you wanted to say was: When the tax rates are high, according to the theory of Laffer, this will lead to a decrease in total revenue, but not if the tax rates are too high. [[Call the ÖVP: Mr. Professor, get to the point!]] [[Abg. The tax and tax quotas are in there!]] This is a contradiction in itself, and in this sense you must be accused that perhaps some hasty has played a role in making your request. But now on the points of content. You do not even notice what you are talking about when you argue about new taxes and property taxes. For example, tax on access to the Foundation. Did you notice that the 2.5 percent tax on the entrance of the foundation was a new tax that was decided last year, a property tax that has been decided upon, a tax that we have reintroduced, which you did not agree to? [[Abg. Strache: You halved that, from 5 to 2.5 percent! You halved them from 5 to 2.5 percent!]] The effect of your vote would have been that the foundations would have been tax-free at all, because the Constitutional Court would have lifted the tax. So, the FPÖ has in this case – you don't need to be so excited, it can be read in the Stenograpic Protocol. [[Abg. Street: From 5 to 2.5 percent halved! Red and black have halved them! That's ridiculous!]] Point two: We have decided in these days a tax reduction, which is quite consciously also one in its distribution effect, which uses the width of the population. We have addressed precisely the problem presented by Mr Krainer, namely that the majority of the total tax burden is on those types of income and income generated by their own work, whether independent or self-employed. The entire tax burden rests on them. And that's where we started with a tax reform, which in total offers significantly more than 2 billion direct wage and income tax reductions, but with more than €500 million, we also provide a special relief for families and, above all, also for self-employed people, especially those with profits up to €30 000, with an extended profit-free amount of 13 percent, which is also not linked to the acquisition of securities. In fact, on this scale – who pays how much – we have paid off precisely those who pay too much, those who pay their income from their own work. This is a good measure that contributes to the exercise of fiscal justice. However, in the government programme, we have – and the German Chancellor has pointed out this correctly – expressly agreed that we will be looking at the tax structures in the course of this legislative period using a tax reform committee. Mr Bartenstein, you mentioned Germany and the tax rates. They are not quite up-to-date when they sell the successes of our government. It's not yet in the Federal Law. With the new 13 percent profit exemption, the self-employed do not pay a maximum tax rate of 50 percent, but because it is only 43 percent in the same amount as the thirteenth, fourteenth monthly salary. [[Abg. Head: The limit is not quite right now!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Where's he going?]] Therefore, the maximum tax rate for us is only 43 percent. In Germany, however, it is not even 45 percent because the so-called solidarity supplement is added by 5.5 percent. That means they're 47 percent tax. In this sense, need You are not unhappy at all, Mr Bartenstein. On this occasion, I would like to point out the special thing he has said. He would like to have the discussion about the tax which is not a new tax, namely on the tax on wealth increases, whether or not the time limits are extended. I think this is a fair offer, because it is part of the injustice we have in the country. A small company – and whether it's 200 years in family ownership – sold today pays more than 200 years of full added value! - Full tax. However, if Böhler-Uddeholm is sold – as Claus Raidl pointed out – there is no tax in the existing system. So this is not a new tax, it is a question of discussing our system. I am grateful for the offer, and I believe that the Federal Chancellor is therefore right: In the context of the tax reform commission provided for in the government programme, let us not discuss this question without emotions, as a proper tax structure looks like. I think there is plenty of opportunity for us – all 183 Members including the members of the government – to ensure a fairer system. But now there is discharge, and they feel the Austrians with the salary payouts coming these days, and that's good that way.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17379	Mr Dr. Stummfully has now come to speak. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17400	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the debates in recent weeks have already shown that there is a point of consensus, namely that a crisis is always a chance – a chance to carry out necessary structural reforms that would probably not be possible in times of high-conjunction – business as usual. For me, it is only amazing that some of these words that crisis is also a chance to explain that they now suddenly want to dust out of the moth box left ideology instruments of the class struggle, such as value added tax, wealth tax, asset tax and the like. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: from the “Kronen Zeitung”!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But that with the double board!]] It is quite surprising, ladies and gentlemen, for the reason is already absurd, because it is a matter of fact that the cause of the crisis should be asked to cash out. And now we're asking ourselves: Was the small and medium-sized businessman who created jobs and thus developed an operating capacity, the cause of the crisis? [[Abg. Strache: These are the managers like Mr. Ötsch and others!]] Has the small investor, who has some securities to improve his pension, caused the crisis? Was the social riser who acquired a home, the trigger of the crisis, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Krainer: Do you think the grasser? The typical retailer Grasser!]] So this argument of getting into this debate is completely absurd, Mr Krainer. Whoever really caused the crisis, today Mr Sepp Pröll said: It was first ardent Wall Street capitalists and no supporters of the social market economy, and it was a policy, especially in the United States, which has been blaming people for years, that they could live without risk over their conditions. [[Abg. Street: How about the “consumer” and the BAWAG!]] That was basically the trigger of today's crisis, ladies and gentlemen – and not the small house builder, and not the small businessman, who created jobs and assets! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Austrian banks!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Do you know the difference between trigger and cause?! Trigger and cause!]] If these taxes, Mr Krainer, are really to be used to finance the measures we have had to take to combat the crisis, then this is not only with the satisfaction of envy complexes, it is a massive attack on property and medium-sized enterprises. And that's what we say about the People's Party: Get your hands off me! Hands away from property! No tax on property! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: As a double boardist, I wouldn't be so full-bodied!]] We do not want triple taxation, Mr Krainer. Income is taxed up to 50 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Contributions for the general public!]] If I add a little bit of net income to the savings book, I'll pay 25 percent of the income. When I buy something, I pay 20 percent VAT. – Then another property tax would be a triple tax, which we strongly reject. With us no attacks on property! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You benefit from the system yourself!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, a journalist has invented the beautiful, dazzling expression of nuclear oil populism. – That’s quite funny, but I don’t think the good Styrian nuclear oil deserves to be called in this context! And one more thing: The start-up argument for the debate was already absurd, but the point of entry into the debate is also to be questioned, ladies and gentlemen. At times of crisis, what is it about? – This is about mastering the crisis, strengthening the economy and helping people, but not about threatening and insinuating people with new tax ideas. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Who wears the main load? Not you personally! That's clear as a double boardist!]] So entry-level argumentation and entry time point are completely opposite. There is also this argument that in Austria the share of wealth taxes is so low. This is very easy to see: If we had the level of income tax, such as the US, Canada, Japan or Switzerland, then our share of property tax would also be much higher. These countries, which have the high share of wealth tax, have all tax and tax rates of partly less than 30 percent. With us, it is between 42 and 43 percent. If we wanted to achieve this level, ladies and gentlemen, we would have to do a tax reduction that is six times as high as that tax reduction now with 1. It's the first time that we've come into force. That's the truth. Austria has the fifth highest tax and tax rate, ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, we have the situation that every second wage and income taxpayer no longer pays wage and income tax. So we have the situation that 25 percent of the payroll and income taxpayers pay 80 percent of the tax revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our situation! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Redemption of work, taxation of assets!]] A word also about the foundations that are always being attacked. You already know that foundation assets are mainly operating assets, under a roof of foundations. That's what you can read, that's data and facts. That is about 300,000 jobs in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's cynical!]] That is, any taxation of property, of foundations is contrary to property, is anti-monetary, is anti-workplace and is also anti-family, because there is a lot of property in the hands of the families. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What about small and medium-sized enterprises? They're supposed to pay full taxes? Every small business is paying full taxes! That's unfair!]] With us, therefore, there is no new tax on property and no small-scale tax! This is a clear strategy, a clear rejection of all ideologies of class struggle, rich tax, value added tax and wealth taxation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17643	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17664	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Federal Chancellor! High house! Mr Strache, on your request I have once again the suspicion that you have been stuck somewhere in the interim network, as you call it so beautiful, because the request is almost schizophrenic, so contradictory. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They write, on the one hand, that there should be no new taxes. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] – Listen to me! The application is formulated in such a way that no new taxes, no new taxes, no new contributions are to be made. Then, as always, your chimp canonades come against Mr. Häupl in Vienna, the usual one you've been telling for five years, loading cheeses and so on; you're quite right, only your own request for nothing better. [[Abg. Strache: Because you should earn by 4 percent less! It hurts very much in itself!]] If you look through the application, then the contradiction will apply correctly. [[Abg. Mr Petzner does not want to make a solidarity contribution.]] They write in the first part that the National Council wants to decide that the Federal Government is obliged not to introduce new taxes or additional taxes, nor to impose any measures to increase existing taxes or taxes. - That's the first part. [[Abg. Stache: But with us politicians already!]] Mr. Strache, now we're at school. Now I'm the teacher, and now you listen! This shows that you don't know each other. I'll teach you something, you can learn something from me! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Street: minus 4 per cent, Mr. Petzner!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I know you're nervous because we caught you. In the first part of the urgent request, you say no new taxes, and then suddenly in the second part of this request you demand a solidarity contribution from the top earners. That's where I ask you: What is this other than a new tax, a new contribution, a new tax? In the first part it is said that no new contribution, in the second part you ask for one. Skill You're clarifying this mystery? What are you doing? [[Abg. We're talking about politicians, ministers, there's where we're supposed to be.]] No one knows how often the FPÖ is. This is the real difficulty with you that you are not taken seriously in the House. Just this request again shows that you simply – Mr Haimbuchner, we have 45 percent in Carinthia. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: But you are taken seriously!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Bring you 45 percent together in Upper Austria in the country election, then we will talk further! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] Your problem is your incompetence. We show how to rule in a federal country like Carinthia. You can't rule. They don't want to rule. You can't even rule. And you'll never rule. I can tell you that because you just can't! [[Abg. Strache: But you were short-term party leader! The fastest failed party leader! Not even a month in office! Failed after a month!]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of BZÖ and FPÖ.]] You from the FPÖ have not yet shown in any federal state that you are eligible for government. Current example Salzburg: Her country party observer Quickly says he doesn't want to rule because he can't. Current EU example: Andreas Mölzer is the most lazy Member! [[Call the FPÖ: The most diligent!]] Current example of last government education: You object to the great coalition, but always forget, Mr. Strache, that you have made this great coalition possible, because you have refused to enter government because you have prevented a bourgeois majority. [[Abg. Strache: But this has nothing to do with the matter!]] The same will happen in Vienna. You, Mr. Strache, are now talking about you wanting to become mayor. But you will never be, because you don't even trust that – and because you can't. God protect the Vienna from you, Mr. Strache! I can tell you that at this point. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. That's embarrassing, after a month!]] [[Call the FPÖ:You're a salmon number!]] And that's it already with this request: He is not taken seriously, he is ridiculous and is therefore rejected today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17900	Mr Van der Bellen has now come to speak. 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17921	Thank you, Madam President. – Mr Petzner! They take this too seriously as proposed by the FPÖ. But I will try to take it seriously too – it is not easy for you, Mr Strache! To the financing proposal with 1 percent solidarity contribution from people who earn over €20 000 a month. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Van der Bellen! Ultra Posts Nemo Occurrence!]] What did you figure out? It brings about € 10 million a year, not even. Here you go. – Mr Strache, this is not in your urgent request. [[Abg. Strache: You don't know anything about the tax reduction of 6.5 billion?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Strache: You know our tax reduction measures!]] Your urgent request states that all measures for the introduction of additional taxes should be omitted, with one exception, that people with over €20 000 monthly income should pay 1 percent more. - Okay. Why not? Brings €10 million. At the same time, you say that the reduction in the tax rate is currently 43 percent to a maximum of 39 percent. How many billions of euros are these, Mr. Strache? – You have made the request. [[Abg. Weinzinger: We are not in school!]] I have assumed that you have also considered how many billions of euros this could be about. [[Abg. Strache: We don't play school and university here, Professor!]] – Is it 4 billion € or 400 or 5 or 12? – Ah, the examiner doesn’t want to answer the question. [[Abg. Strache: We don't play exam now!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Okay, that's it. There's that at the university. There's also this here in the high house. Mr Strache would like to reduce the tax rate by 4 percentage points, but he does not know how many billions of tax losses this would mean. - Good. It's not a secret to others. I've heard the call from these series: It's about €12 billion. - About 10 million. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Jö, €10 million!]] Let's forget the 10 million, they're uninteresting! 12 billion €! – Mr Strache, I take this very seriously. [[Abg. Strache: Professor, to the administrative and health reform!]] You don't like to pay taxes, I don't like paying taxes either. You want 12 billion € less taxes, okay. [[Abg. Strache: Did you not listen to my speech?]] Mr Strache, if you take this seriously – and I do so for the moment – is classical neoliberal politics, because the 12 billion will be missing. [[Abg. Street: An administrative and health reform!]] – The administrative reform!Unknown term type: "%s".? I knew this was coming. 12 billion € annually through an administrative reform. [[Abg. Street: 5! And health again 5!]] - That's right. We're already at €17 billion! At 10, at 20! [[Abg. That's where we're at 10!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. That's what the Court of Auditors expects you to do!]] I thought at the preparation that you could take it seriously and play it through. If you don't take it seriously, there's only one answer: This is not neoliberal politics, it is pure voodoo policy. [[Call at the FPÖ:There is no way to save, is there?]] You with your calls now confirm me: This is Voodoo. You believe in this on certain islands in the Caribbean! – Not at all, not at all! [[Abg. Mr. Professor, you say, don't save, raise taxes! That's the wrong way!]] I only say that the 12 billion are missing: unemployment insurance, care, kindergartens, schools, universities, the military, the police, all public expenditure. 12 billion €! For the universities we are currently spending a little more than € 2 billion. [[Call the FPÖ:Most for the professors!]] Yes, we can save 12 billion. [[Abg. Strache: Let's tie up the bank package!]] That's all we do in private: Health reform – self-retaining, self-retaining, self-retaining; public universities – for what? The children of well-earned lawyers from the FPÖ can also afford a private university with corresponding tuition fees. Why not? But then stand by it! Say: Yes, we are the neoliberal lobby of the rich in Austria! That's all right. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of Abg. Say that on Victor Adler's market!]] Then we reduce the tax rate by 4 percent. The private will save 12 billion. We just have to say which private people. These are not the ones the kindergartens wanted to have for free. These are those who can also afford the most expensive private kindergarten. If this is your clientele, please. But then be honest! Don't pretend you're the little man's lobby! That's not true! It just doesn't work together. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of Abg. Just keep the speech on Victor Adler's market!]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: So you stand at 43 percent, almost 50 percent tax rate!]] Mr Strache, you did not know how much 1% of GDP tax revenue is. That's about 3 billion. You didn't know that that was four billion times, and then you came with the administrative reform! [[Call at the FPÖ:Statement!]] [[Abg. Strache: The performance carriers are not to be taxed!]] I have a disadvantage to you, but sometimes it's an advantage: I'm a trace older than you. Do you know how many decades I've been accompanied by the talk about the administrative reform? - Yes, yes. [[Abg. That's it! Down from the high horse! The last election result has been shown again!]] – Mr Stadler, can you remember what were the most ambitious statements about the administrative reform? Wasn't that 50 billion schilling? [[Abg. May. Stadler: I don't remember what he suggested at the time!]] What do the school councils, the school inspectors, as they all call them, do all day? There's a lot of savings potential. A federalism discussion that deserves the name, we need, of course. But every federal government has failed to do so, whether it had a two-thirds majority or not. But 12 billion €, Mr. Strache?! - Okay. [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: Such a superlative man!]] - So superlative? The control of arithmetic, Mr Colleague, is not a matter of superiority, I would have thought. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: This superlativeness has met you at the last election!]] Because you mentioned it: There are certain things that seem to be particularly sensitive to the right parties. There are points where you have to say: If a trivial knowledge mates with stupidity in interpretation – now I don't mean you, but in general – then there are usually collateral damage in the application. [[Abg. Weinzinger: That's how the Greens operate!]] The Laffer Curve, Mr Colleague! – Mr. Laffer was a happy or unhappy person, I have no idea, an insignificant professor somewhere in the West of the USA, I suppose, who had the luck or the wrong to become known at the time of the Reagan administration, as some misguided officer has interpreted the idea of a Laffer curve, we say, in a way that unfortunately did not reflect itself in reality. The idea that tax rates have something to do with tax resistance is trivial. The idea that tax resistance increases if income tax in Austria, we say, would amount to 90 percent and there would not be a maximum tax rate of 50 or 43 percent, as we have heard before, is also trivial. The fact that there are tax rates so high that if you lower them, the tax revenue increases is trivial. Not trivial is the question where this point is. The Reagan administration, apparently the same as a certain group in this House – ah, the Reagan administration was successful on the point, super! – has taken this literally and has further reduced the already low tax rates for high and highest incomes in the USA, in the expectation that tax revenue will increase. [[Abg. Strache: It was successful with that!]] [[Abg. Strache: It wasn't unsuccessful!]] Passing is the opposite. Reagan has conducted involuntarily pure Keynesian politics. The tax revenue has fallen. [[Abg. That's not right!]] – That's not right, Mr. Collegue?- Oh, my God! [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Mr. colleague, that's 30 years ago – or how long? When did the Reagan rule? 1980 or when? How big were you? Something like that? [[indicate two different body sizes of a child]] But I was already relatively grown up at the time, I can still remember this time quite well. [[Rejoicing]] I don't blame you for not being able to remember. [[Abg. Strache: You know that this measure at the time brought about an economic boost! You know Reagan boosted the economy!]] Okay, okay. So: Be careful in the practical application of FPÖ principles in tax policy! These questions are too sensitive, Mr Strache. But I thank you very much for the pleasure I had today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18435	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18456	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Good morning, Mr State Secretary – you have also become more mint! [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrator: What's going on? I've been more mint than you.]] Let us take a look at the reason why, even if some of us here are still trying so much to get into this ridiculous issue. The SPÖ makes its “Kernöl-Chavez” Franz Voves mint – and I am now in favour of us tipping him out of the boots, because the nuclear oil really didn’t deserve this refreshment. The SPÖ thus lets Voves get better after a winter sleep, and he takes Ferdinand Lacina out of the political moth box and thanks to the voters with tax increases. Obviously in a damp reflex because he appears to be sitting on a wacky state captain chair, he beats all around and demands tax increases, rich tax et cetera. But let us leave it with this term. Voves acts according to the motto: Buy Voves Funds! This one invests in taxes that always rise anyway. Voves keeps the population at shame when he says he's only there for the population, he's got his ear on the population. – In reality, ladies and gentlemen, this is an attack on the middle class, an attack on the hard-working house builders and car owners, because otherwise it would not be profitable in fiscal terms. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The other question we have to ask ourselves is: Who at all defines “rich ”? If that's the flicker, then I'm afraid, because that would mean that everyone is rich more than a farmer in the Russian collectives of the eighties. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Bitch.]] It is obvious that Mr. Voves is so “social” that he would even donate the Sterntal girl to income tax. With taxes – that is the same way – one controls revenue, but unfortunately not expenditure. I recommend to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and to your head of state behind Semmering, the Court of Auditors' reading; it has already been addressed. Here, 9.1 billion € of savings potential is mentioned. I know that not everything will be feasible, but these 4 billion € that Voves wants to get out of the Reich tax are all here to get out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We should take reasonable steps. Thus, we know – and this is also evidenced by an EU study – that Austrian entrepreneurs are paying more administrative costs in the EU section, by €3.1 billion more than in other countries. If we set up here, this would be a motivation for our micro and small entrepreneurs to invest. At present, when they express their wishes for investment to the banks, they are partly not even heard. It can't be! We would truly have other concerns than to discuss a rich tax et cetera! [[Abg. Tight: halve the EU's contributions!]] Tax increases, which are like this, slow down and prevent investments that we so urgently need, especially in the crisis – a word that we have heard today from the Minister of Finance, I think, a hundred times. It would also be time for Mr. Voves to admit and correct mistakes he made. Example: Free kindergarten. – It is now so far that single mothers – not just one or two but dozens! – come to us and tell us that they do not house their children in the kindergarten and, because the karenz runs out, the unemployed end, now have to get an emergency. These are states that are not worthy of a state like Austria – and not a country like Styria, which attaches so much to the topic of free kindergarten! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you can also save yourself, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and in this context I propose a resolution on the reduction of political relations and the contribution of senior officials by 4 per cent. The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council, without delay, a government template which provides that salaries for the functions referred to in the Remuneration Limitation Act and in the Reference Act are reduced by 4 per cent, the automatic annual adjustment of these salaries in accordance with § 3 Remuneration Restriction Act no longer takes place and the salaries of senior officials, officials and contract staff of the Federal Government, countries and municipalities and all other institutions of the protected area are reduced by 4 per cent. That was proposal number one. Number two: In the Styria we wonder about poster waves: Voves and Schützhofer look down grinning at the population, on a sweaty paper, and that at a time when people are dirty, they fear their jobs to fear their existence. Get down with these posters! Show solidarity with the population and save us your visas in these places! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Grosz: “Visagen”?! Madam President.]] And one last thing: We have called for solidarity with the population to bring together the municipal elections in Styria next year. We would save fifty million euros. Do this, Mr. Landeshupt. Mr Bundeskanzler, I hope you will also put this at his heart. Between you and him obviously does not fit “no sheet of paper, ” as Voves said. Take him to the chest – and let's do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18564	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18634	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18655	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor was actually like an open book: He has shown quite clearly why we are dealing with this urgent question today, because it is obvious that the FPÖ in Styria sees its skin floating away. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: It's all going to BZÖ!]] It is very unfortunate that you obviously cannot distinguish in which body of the legislative you operate, otherwise you would have realized that your speech probably fits more in the Steermärkian Landtag than here in the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: How much have you won in the Styria at the AK election?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, volume is not an argument! We are at the beginning of discussions on a budget which has announced the fight against the economic crisis and, in particular, the fight against unemployment. It is very interesting that you submit this urgent request here, because we have already decided in this House a measure which is due to the initiative of the SPÖ, namely the tax relief which has already been carried out. I can remind you that 88 percent of the volume of tax reduction benefits people with income below €4,000. This is medium-sized security, ladies and gentlemen. Something you asked for today, we've done here a long time ago. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] €1.8 billion – to remind you of this, Mr. Strache – will flow directly into the purchasing power. In other words, this money is spent on those people who give it directly into consumption and thereby indirectly strengthen the labour market again. Today, when the FPÖ speaks of ‘klots’, I can point out that it was precisely under the FPÖ government’s participation that people with the highest tax rate, more than 44 percent in 2001, were confronted and burdened. That's how the truth looks! They were world leaders in the government, the ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ or also BZÖ; They walk and change one another. [[Abg. Strache: I was not in the government, Mrs. Colleague! You're wrong!]] Mr Strache, quite helpless and unintelligible, are there your demands, which, in fact, only require more of what we are doing anyway. They are therefore demasking themselves with this request and in fact only confirming the correctness of the measures which this Federal Government sets out. The right thing was the SPÖ's fight for the high level of the social state, especially in view of your government participation, where there were whole groups who were afraid of the social state, and where even a social state popular desire was initiated, because people were afraid of social benefits in that state. Today, in this economic crisis, we recognise that the social state is a very important stability factor for the economy and, above all, for society in Austria. Another aspect that seems very important to me is – I have heard this repeatedly in speech donations here – that the high burden of labour should be further reduced. This is precisely what this discussion is about: that we relieve those people who contribute to our living in a welfare society in Austria, and that a fair contribution is also paid for a benefit where one can only work capital. That is why the debate we are having is going to take place. The polemic with the “small house builder”, which we have heard a few times today, may seem as a killer argument outwards, but lacks any reality as you and we all know here. What is it really about this tax and tax discussion? – There are three stated objectives: Priority for work, protection of social security and protection against speculation. That is why head of state Voves is doing the same as we are Social Democrats! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Among these are the debate on structural reform, which is a debate in which people are at the heart of political action. That is why it is important to include this point in the structural reform discussion and to work on it in a tax reform committee. In connection with today's debate during the debate on the urgent request 'Solidarity instead of Class Fight', I put forward a motion for a resolution by Mr Cap, Mr Kopf, Mr Krainer, Mr Stummvoll, Mr Spindelberger, Mr Auer, Mr President of the Commission on structural tax reform. The Members who have been signed put forward the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government and the Federal Ministers responsible for this task are asked to prepare the establishment of the tax reform commission provided for in the government programme and subsequently to instruct them with the task of designing a structural tax reform. The Federal Government is invited to work for a comprehensive regulation and control of all stakeholders on the EU financial market, i.e. Hegde Funds, Private Equity Funds and Rating Agencies. It is also called on to work towards the creation of European and internationally agreed financial market surveillance and the introduction of a financial transaction tax at European and international level. Ladies and gentlemen, you can now show how honest you mean your discussion. You can now accept this motion for a resolution – I ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18771	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18836	Mrs Tamandl is now speaking. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18857	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's very exciting what we've heard here today: On the one hand, the protector of the “little man”, who suddenly also confesses that we do not need new taxes and that the introduction of a property tax in these times of a crisis that we must face with all possible measures on the part of politics cannot be necessary. On the other hand, Mr Bundeskanzler, I would also have expected you to have a clear line here and speak clear words about how you stand on the demands of your own party, a tax reform with 1. January 2010 to enter into force where a reintroduction of the property tax is to be inside. There you can draw a clear line, especially now that we are strengthening the purchasing power through the tax reform that people will feel in the next few days and weeks. We should wait for what this is all about, how budgetary measures, for example, affect the labour market sector, the economic packages et cetera, and not talk about new taxes. All we've heard here today is not true. The colleague Matznetter, whom I always value very much as a specialist, has also told us today that if a company, a single company, a one-person company sells this, the entrepreneur also has to tax the increase for more than 200 years, but if Böhler-Uddeholm is sold, then that is not the case. So, if someone pays 10 percent of the shares to Böhler-Uddeholm, the full corporation falls tax on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Yeah, but it can be that someone holds 10 percent, too. So don't say it's generally not. Nor is it true, Mr Matznetter and all the other colleagues who have mentioned this today that we have little wealth taxes in Austria, but they are sailing under another flag with us. It has been right and good that – by the way – in 1989 the property tax was abolished by Ferdinand Lacina – that was good that – and the capital income tax was introduced as a so-called final tax. I can tell you: Before that time, there have been people who have had capital gains but have not stated them, and the state has not been able to access these capital gains. Now there is the final taxation, and there are very few loopholes where you find out that you pay this 25 percent capital income tax. And it is probably also a part of the property tax, as well as the basic tax. If a higher asset tax is stated in the OECD comparison, we also need to know that, for example, various taxes, such as the garbage tax et cetera, which is included in the fees, do not fall within the scope of property tax in other countries. I think you really have to stick to the truth here. And we also need to focus on exactly what we made up, and on what was basically unanimous opinion, namely that there should be no new taxes. I can assure you: We will do everything we can to cope with this crisis. Today, our Minister of Finance has shown it with a budget and a discharge that brings something to all Austrians, all the citizens of this country. We know very well that we are setting a false signal with such a debate about a property tax. No one knows what's really to be taxed. Is that what I created by hard work when I bought a family house or a living apartment? – No one knows that, and I think even the contributors of this tax claim do not know. It must be said quite honestly that we already have a speculation period, both for securities and shares, and for land and land, which is even extended for interest-rate houses, for example, because we make greater investments. I think that if we are already talking about structural reforms, which we will certainly be discussing in this tax reform committee, then we could also consider what happens to those who have small savings income and still have to pay 25 percent capital income tax. That is really unfair. And we also need to think about how we will relieve the commuters in the future, because we can't reach everyone with the shuttle fee. And here I invite the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: We demand the discharge ticket in Vienna at €100 a year – support us in the workers' election dispute, and then we can achieve excellent relief for the workers!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18927	Next speaker: Mr Linder. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18949	Thank you, Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! The most of you have children, and you must have been confronted with the demand for more pocket money. I don't know how you dealt with it. I said to my children: Think about the output behaviour and the topic of saving! That is exactly what we would have expected from the government! At a time when the budget really does not look rosy, one suddenly begins to think about introducing new taxes, speckled with class-wing thinking instead of implementing reforms. I believe, gentlemen and dear lady on the government bank, that you have had a great opportunity tonight to take up these reforms. It was not about this small amount of teachers, but, as a result, many major administrative reforms and other reforms have lost much of their potential and have provided many opportunities. That is why I believe that we should take a new step and think about real reforms instead of thinking about an asset tax and trying to make money. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What does this asset tax bring us? Is it really a tax for rich people, as we have heard today: 8, 10, 12 million €? Then, I don't think she's worth talking. Or we're going deep. That is, we're talking about the family house, we're talking about the apartment, we're talking about the second residence and the Schreberg species. But we are also talking about the hotel, the land and the land of the farmers. That, I think, can't make sense and purpose, that we're weakening purchasing power over higher taxation, that we're raising prices, or that we're forcing people to flee capital. I don't think that's our goals. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Or – and this is hard for me as a tourister – if we are thinking today about taxing land and land more intensively, the property owners will no longer offer us tourists the opportunity to work with the guests on their land and soil, play and experience leisure. Therefore, I think you, ladies and gentlemen, should get away from this idea of wealth tax quickly and think about our model, about the model of flat tax. In this case, there is really a uniform tax rate that is fair. That is, everyone is charged with the same tax rate. And above all, and we should keep this in mind: It is a very understandable tax model. We have just today experienced that former Minister Bartenstein is not at all clear with Mr Matznetter what the tax model looks like. I think a lot of citizens don't know it at all. That is why we are calling for: Support It is our model of flat tax, a uniform, manageable tax system, which is also very, very fair and balanced.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18994	Next speaker: Mr Ddr. Königshofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19016	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Professorchen Today, Van der Bellen seems to have been preparing for a pleasant quarter of an hour here in the House by believing that he had to go beyond the liberal group and the clubman with his superiority. He's not here now, but I can still let him be executed. I can tell him who was really guilty of the American economic miracle, as he meant. This cause has two words, and the name Ronald Reagan. It was the Reagans that led the USA to its success at the end of the last century. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: And who have now caused the banking crisis! Everyone knows!]] Mr Van der Bellen is right when he says that there has been a tax decline in the first two to three years of the Reagan government, which, by the way, ruled from January 1981 to January 1989. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's absurd what you give of yourself! Deregulation of the banking system has begun under Reagan!]] But then, as a result of these tax cuts, there was a spuddling of indirect taxes, which also benefited George Bush senior and a certain Bill Clinton. The Professor Van der Bellen should know that too – and not go out here and try to make us down. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Tax is an eternal topic in the German language area, and in the German language area there is most literature on tax, tax savings, tax avoidance. You know why? Because we have the most complicated tax systems in Germany and in Austria and because the tax rates – I think they are right – are so high. The colleague is right if he believes that the tax rates should be reduced, and our clubman is right when he calls for the maximum tax to be reduced to a rate of 39 percent, for example. However, it is not just about taxes, direct and indirect taxes, but about the whole area of taxes and fees. Ladies and gentlemen, you should go through the Austrian Fees Act and throw most of it on the trash. The credit contract fee has long been abolished. This is a unique thing in Europe. Get away with this loan contract fee! [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] I always say that's an investment penalty. If a person invests for 10 million and takes up a loan for it, then he has to deliver 80 000 € in a loan contract fee: to invest and create jobs! A total nonsense! Rent contract fees – get rid of them! Entrepreneurs such as private individuals must pay a fee when they conclude a rental contract. An unicum from the time of the last century. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic tax is also a nonsense, an intervention in private autonomy, in the wealth of private citizens. If a Mr Müller sells an apartment to Mr Meier, what is the State's tax on basic transport? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you prefer an administrative reform as the Court of Auditors demands, you can save billions of euros and finance certain things! Finally, at a fee that Mrs Bandion-Ortner has been addressing recently, namely the court fees that the good woman wants to raise by 5 percent. I say: No, that's not the point! Mrs Bandion-Ortner could save in other areas. I will now read to you a little bit, from an answer to a question I received recently, regarding interpreting costs at Austrian courts. I'll let you know. The interpreting costs in 2008, broken down by the Oberlandesgerichtsprängeln, amounted to approximately €6.6 million. But then there is also the cost of phone surveillance. Most people do not know that foreign drug dealers, who are working here, are being monitored by telephone and that the Telekom of the Justice is making juicy bills for it. Telephone monitoring costs in 2008 amounted to €6.7 million. So in total, only the interpreter and telephone monitoring costs: €13.5 million. Yeah, I know. [[Abg. Amon: Without interpreters this will not happen!]] But the interpreters are needed for foreign workers, and whoever cannot afford to the interpreter himself, let him give up, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: How else would you like to handle a procedure properly?]] Here the minister could save – and not the citizens who need justice to deal with legal acts. That's why I'm saying. No to increase fees in justice, and I would also ask for an understanding of this in the interests of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19121	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19143	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! The President-in-Office of the Council has made a fair effort to avert the blamage from the Laffer curve and from Mr Strache, but that has naturally gone beyond that. It is a protagonist of neoliberalism, and Reagan has failed grandly, we all know. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: BAWAG! “Consum”!]] I do it quite simply for the FPÖ and for Mr. Strache: Reagan was a good cowboy, but a bad financial and social politician. I would recommend the FPÖ: less cowboy fantasies and more responsible social policy! Ladies and gentlemen, at the heart of the debate: Distribution justice, prosperity in society, wealth – and how does it belong to distribution? The SPÖ is always happy to have this discussion because at the end of the day, social policy impulses for greater justice, more solidarity and more freedom in society and more equal opportunities are coming out. Of course, workers deserve very special protection in times of crisis, and it is absolutely clear that workers will not only pay the bill for the crisis. Who owes it? Was it the population? Was it the workers? No, no, no, They were speculators, casino capitalism, responsibilitylessness, to human contempt in reality. And the workers are supposed to pay for it? It can't be like that! Therefore, we will discuss very intensively about distribution justice. Who benefits, ladies and gentlemen, if the crisis is overcome when the upturn is there? And who's being asked to check out? What measures are the right ones for distribution justice? – It is in the interest of the people to be very, very responsible and with a sense of reality and far-sighted, and there must be a great deal of understanding of the concerns and needs and of the sensitivity of the population. Now a tax reform is coming into force, which is noticeable, which supports the economy, which brings relief. And I'll tell you, my Ladies and gentlemen: The SPÖ categorically excludes the fact that house-keepers will be taxed in the future, including savings books. Yes, your ideas range even to the dog, as I have heard. This will make the population uncertain, especially by your side, Mr Cot. The focus and the goal are of course people who can set up €100 million in less than an hour, and of course also the large income increases that are achieved without work. The financial transaction tax is a concrete programme at European level, a speculation tax, and we will not get tired of demanding it at European level. One last thing to add: Distribution justice does not end with the tax discussion, in the tax system alone, it is also about other things. I mention only the infrastructure, for example, postal services for all across-the-board or rail connections, Internet access, equal opportunities in education. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, understands SPÖ as distribution justice, and we will not let go of it here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19182	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19204	Gentlemen on the government bank! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we have a federal government and, in particular, a finance minister who has made it clear today about what it is about, not to stick to some figures, but to present a budget that guarantees one, namely that people have work and that people earn income. I believe that this is the biggest challenge we have here in this House. And that's also a challenge that politics has. I am very glad that there was a survey yesterday in the Federal Council, where the social partners presented themselves. I'd like to say: If one were not involved in this mosaic of social security, it would be missing. That is what I mean by the workers, that I mean the economic operators, and that is what I mean by the farmers. It is actually the task of politics and all the parties here in this House, which seriously believe that it is also important to ensure that social peace is continued. And it should not be put at risk by discussions about redistribution, wealth tax and the like. I am glad that Finance Minister Pröll made it clear that there will be no wealth tax with him, that there will be no new property tax with him – not with the Austrian People's Party and not with Josef Pröll at the top! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! I also hope that your words can penetrate the Styria, too, because I think Franz Voves has other tasks than thinking about how to redistribute and how to create burdens. It is asked, especially in Styria, to create work in times of this economic crisis, to secure work, to secure income and to strengthen purchasing power – and not to insure people in a phase like this! [[Abg. Silhavy: That's what he does!]] I hope that Mr Voves will finally hear it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] An appeal to all parties, to the representatives of all parties. I have repeatedly experienced discussions in connection with the inflation, especially last year – I said this yesterday in the Federal Council – where we have tried to make the farmers in this country responsible for the rate of inflation by means of class fighting methods. The fact is that many other factors were decisive for this. I have also experienced in many political discussions when it comes to how to help this professional group, that the idea has often been expressed, that there must be lower prices for food, that there should be fewer compensation payments from the public authorities and, if it goes, even higher taxes. Also here and today clearly said: If you are thinking of increasing basic taxes, if you are thinking of abolishing unit values and possibly introducing traffic values, we are also giving you a clear rejection! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to repeat: Get away with these Voves’s old Marxist shopkeepers from Styria! We don't need property taxes; people don't deserve it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19271	Mr Dolinschek is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19293	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Grillitsch, mentioned exactly what I said yesterday in the survey on social security in the 21st century. ==References== Everyone said the same thing there, no one wants to hurt the other, one crow doesn't hack out one eye, but definitely it was to be heard: We don't need wealth tax, no, thanks, we don't need it! On the other hand, class struggle: Solidarity, wealth is taxed! You have to say one thing: All are in favour of strengthening purchasing power; all are in favour of boosting the internal economy; all are for economic growth; all are for full employment and social security. Of course, everyone is. Only: How's the road going? That's what you have to say now, and that's exactly what it's all about. Now we have a financial and an economic crisis. We have social partners. Mr Mitterlehner, Federal Minister, said at the survey I mentioned earlier: We are so lucky that we have the social partners in Austria, because this will make it much easier to deal with this financial and economic crisis! - Well, then it'll stop! Then put yourselves together, you social partners, and make proposals accordingly! It is clear that the labour force has to be taxed less. If the labour force is less taxed, people are much easier to keep in employment. They cost less to the service provider, themselves they have more net of gross. That's exactly what it's all about: you have to get there somehow! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But then you have to call it by name, ladies and gentlemen: There's a need to introduce a value-added levy. There are areas where there is a great added value, but few people are busy, and you have to address and consider that accordingly. We from the BZÖ are opposed to a solidarity levy in this area, but for solidarity in labour law and in remuneration – but then it finally implements it in the field of social partnership, because there are privileged groups that we discussed a few hours ago, where grains will be maintained! And others are supposed to pay a solidarity contribution that may not have any work tomorrow?- Oh, my God! That's not how it is! That's not how it is! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We believe that it will not be possible without the introduction of new taxes. Let us stop and decide to terminate the speculation period on shares! At present, it is one year. Let's open this! What if a foreign exchange transaction tax is introduced at EU level? Who could have anything against it? Let's do it! But such things need to be addressed. My colleague has already addressed the flat tax with a uniform rate of 44 per cent, with an exemption of € 11 000. Of course, the social security contribution is already included. This would relieve everyone up to an income of approximately €6,000 to €7 000 gross per month. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If we work together to reduce the tax and tax rate to less than 40 per cent, that will also bring something to the general public! We reduced corporate tax in 2004 from 33 to 25 percent. And then we had more revenue on corporate tax than before.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19354	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19376	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I have only three minutes of speaking time and I would therefore like to start with a motion for a resolution on the promotion of internal demand. In the interests of Austria, its citizens and its economies, the Members who have been signed therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council, where possible, a government template containing the following points: a relief of families by introducing a family tax-sharing model, the elimination of cold progression by a regular valorisation of tariff levels; a reduction in tax rates, in particular, of the 36.5% tax rate to a maximum of 25%; an increase in the tariff level from which the peak tax rate is used, from currently EUR 60.000 to EUR 80,000.’ As far as our motion for a resolution is concerned. On the subject itself and on the comments of the Lord Van der Bellen: What is so bad about aiming to reduce the tax rate from 42 percent to 39 percent? If you look at our request, you can see: There's clearly in there: Policy is required to implement a reduction in the tax rate. - That's not a ban! This must be allowed, especially in view of the fact that in Germany the tax rate is also only 39 percent! That's our goal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, We have taken more than €10 billion in taxes in the years 2006 to the present due to a good economic situation, but the government has succeeded in resuming almost all these surplus revenues over exorbitant expenditure. If these amounts were saved, we would not have to talk about new taxes today. And we also refuse to introduce new taxes, because there is a lot to save in this state. It has already happened: the form of government and administration; the Court of Auditors says that €3 billion is in the reserve. [[Abg. At least!]] Or: Health resort – €2 billion; red tape – €4 billion Reserves. And what about the scapegoat we need to learn about the Court of Auditors every day? With regard to the ÖBB came yesterday the message: €980 million loss. But there is a bonus for the people who have caused this. [[Abg. The EU's contributions to Brussels!]] Speculation transactions in the field of ÖBB of €623 million. Or: AUA-Misswirtschaft – 500 million € will be cut down so that we can give the AUA at all. Next example: Land Niederösterreich – Speculation transactions with tax money, a damage amounting to € 1 billion. I think we are giving far too much to the countries in the financial balance, otherwise there could not be so much money speculated. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Mr President. How much time do I have? - Nothing more.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19442	The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19457	I would recommend reading the wonderful letter to Mr Mag. Christian Ebner also writes in yesterday’s “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” that there is no need for new taxes, because it is possible to save these burdens through savings.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19484	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19568	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler with 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19591	Mr President. Back to the main request, which is then voted first. So one biterl cannot resist the impression – but the FPÖ is not alone with it – that in tax policy, because one believes that it is somehow good to sell and, anyway, no one has to calculate the “wash me the fur, but do not make me wet” philosophy throughout. This also applies to other parties. So much to the FPÖ's request, ladies and gentlemen: It can't do anything you can to help us out! And you know, the main problem is not the mathematics, which has been a topic today, but the main problem is the dishonesty that is inside. In the end, it is the dishonesty of the “little man” that you have a lot of strength – the “little woman” does not happen to you that way. It's not all together! If it is true – and we come to the real present situation, for example, the budget that we now have – and there is no doubt that we have to deal with the greatest crisis at all since we all live, when it is true that we must not stand by it and fight it wisely, and that this also costs money, then, of course, the question arises: Who will bear the burden of these costs to minimize the damage – you can't, of course, avoid it anyway, unfortunately? [[Abg. Strache: The wrong way for banks to do the money!]] In fact, this is the very same discussion that has to be held, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ – we prefer to turn to the government parties, because that is more worthwhile at the end – and that will lead to a need to consider this as a tax-structure reform discussion at all. It is, in principle, completely wreaked whether you say: We have a certain tax rate, i.e. a tax rate, and we have to look at how we apply it. And there are those who can do this more easily, and who can no longer do it, and who can easily afford it. These are precisely the ones for which Austrian laws are most likely to make an exception. We have tax laws in which we have been confused in the field of wealth – not of income!, there is the controversy; this is now a few times deliberately, as I am referring to you on the government bank, - tax principles that are there: Especially high assets pay particularly little taxes! And you don't want to listen because you can't stand against your government partner, who's not a government partner on this issue, but is an opposition partner. [[Abg. Head: You can also have different opinions!]] In fact, this is much worse than under guinea pig, which you deliver here, because at least he has brought together the wealth tax. You left them in the government negotiations again. And now I come to the motion for a resolution, which is the real reason for my speech, because that is really not to be done. And that's why I'm going to explain why we're against it. You only have to let that break on the tongue once. I quote: ‘The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government and the Federal Ministers responsible for it” – na wumms! – “to prepare for the establishment of the tax reform commission provided for in the government programme”. – Citations. We are therefore at the stage of preparing for the implementation of a government programme that falls behind that, because of which the old government has actually been chosen. That's completely absurd: You are preparing a Commission to lighten Parliament because the government programme has something from a Commission! Excuse me, the crisis is here now! Now we need to discuss how we spend the money on the costs. We need to talk about it now, not only in commissions, but also in political terms, Mr Haberzettl. And now I come to the next reason for my speech. – That’s not how it’s going, my Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, that various national leaders move through the countries – you can see: especially those who have country elections in front of them or who have government negotiations or also have them behind them; you can calculate them wonderfully – and suddenly hold up the flag of justice. Yes, but the flag alone is not enough. It needs another content, it needs a coat of arms, it also needs something inside. It can not always be just a case like the predecessors and predecessors, with guise builders and climate. And exactly there you will also land or there you are on the best way if you don't finally find some clear words. I think what the SPÖ delivers here is a very tragic spectacle. There will be the question of whether Mr Voves is serious about what he says and does, and perhaps in the knowledge that the SPÖ part of the Federal Government is doing nothing anyway, because he is simply prophylactically kneeling in this matter before the ÖVP, so he can simply tell how beautiful the world is. – Alone, for the beautiful world there is no government and no SPÖ government at all, but he talks about the beautiful new world. This is staged as we already know it enough, behind the Semmering, before the Semmering, you might be making an additional point. But in this way there is no policy to be made! This is not at all appropriate to the current situation, and it would therefore be only right and important for it to be known in this regard and not to be adopted in the resolution which says that we are going down to set up a Commission. Yes, we not only decide to set up a Commission, but we also decide on the call for steps to be taken. – This is worse than in the founding phase a Pfitschigogerl party, that is not to be held! And now, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, it will be the question of how the party spectrum can be described differently from the following and whether you can free yourself from it or just want to free yourself: Why the Austrian People's Party is so called, no one knows, because on the question of justice it has nothing at all to do with a People's Party. That's what everyone knows! You're the rich party. So far, so bad. What is the role of SPÖ is sometimes not clear: Is she just on the edge, or is she lubrication? Sometimes I fear the latter. It stands for nothing to happen on this matter. And then there are two parties that make opposition and are always opposed. On the one hand, they are for the “little man, ” but they do not want to do anything for him and do not even control the basics. And that's not the point! And do you know what the tragedy in this country is? – The fact that a party of ideological conviction is already standing where the “Kronen Zeitung” is constantly writing, and the other parties are throwing themselves there, on this position, but really on the belly, because there is a powerful newspaper in that country. And the only ones who really resist this are the Greens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Objection and ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is, of course, something you don't like to hear, but as far as it's come to this country, as far as it's come that newspaper publishers who are billionaires hide their assets in foundations, determine what policy is inside here. We do not need to look into the Berlusconi country there we have been long before, but this is your responsibility, with you out of ideological conviction, and with you out of cowardice. [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19687	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. We now decide on four proposals, ladies and gentlemen. We first come to the vote on the self-employed amendment 587/A(E) tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on 'Solidarity instead of class struggle'. Whoever joins this request, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – He finds no majority and is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, colleagues, on the reduction of political relations and on the contribution of senior officials by 4 per cent. Whoever joins this, I ask for a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cap, Mr Head, Mr President, on structural tax reform. Who is for this, I ask for a positive sign. – This is decided by a majority. (E 24.) Finally, we shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members Grastaur, ladies and gentlemen, on the promotion of internal demand. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – The application does not find a majority, so it is rejected. [[17:32:28]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19773	We will return to Agenda item 4: Security Report 2007. Mr Hornek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19798	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, and it is a very important task to ensure the freedom and security of the population in the future. Cross-border cooperation is particularly important in the field of security. In order to combat cross-border crime effectively, the government will intensify cooperation in particular with our neighbouring countries. A key issue in the coming years will be immigration and integration. However, there must be a clear separation between asylum and immigration. Austria has demonstrated for decades that we take asylum issues very, very seriously. I recall the confusion in Czechoslovakia at the time, the Hungarian crisis and the war events in ex-Yugoslavia. The following shall apply to the area of asylum: Fast and fair protection for those who are actually persecuted. Immigration, ladies and gentlemen, is a global challenge. Immigration to Austria must be tailored to the needs and possibilities of our country and our labour market. I would like to point out that the fight against tow crime is a central task, because it is simply disgraceful to take away the poorest of the poor from their last big or euro and to arouse false expectations. Cooperation is an important element in security. This has been demonstrated very well in recent weeks, when the federal states of Lower Austria and Burgenland have carried out a joint, multi-day focus action and have achieved very, very good search success. It has been demonstrated that the use of modern technology, such as the identification of markings, leads to the rapid return of recovered vehicles to their legitimate owners. The fairy tale is that data protection in this context – I remember the discussion with Mr Pilz a few years ago – is a nuisance. This would have to be similar to anyone who once saw a radar box behind him. The security sector and our Ministry of the Interior were also financially not only well taught in difficult times, but even more money was made available to ensure security in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for clear words in terms of security, clear objectives – and Mrs Federal Minister Fekter is sure that security is in good hands.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19864	Next speaker: Mr Mayerhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19885	Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mr President. A few words about Mr. Peter Pilz, who, unfortunately, is not present here, who is a patron saint of the Vienna police. – I would like to remind the police who perhaps only protect the hall et cetera, now who and what environment is first with the prosecutor when the police force the less dangerous weapon or even just the fist and – I say now – it goes hard in the interest of security. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then you are the first, the very first and your environment to do so and all the lawyers who are moving in your environment, including those who are not too stupid and who are the most peculiar facts right to discredit police. To you, Minister Fekter, I say immediately at the beginning: I think you're hiding something, that's two years of training. You always forget to say that. Then one is very happy to mix the training places and planning points defined in the Government Convention. This is always forgotten and speculated a little by the fact that the citizen easily overlooks it and confuses some things. The 2007 Security Report has already been mentioned by others as a history report and is actually interested in just more of some archives, such as old police, digging around, because the 2007 Security Report is sometime later, and they want to look for something in it. There is no reason to talk about actuality or reference for current decisions, because it is simply no longer up-to-date and is of interest to paper recycling. It seems that one has tried to get through a critical period of time by waiting so long to be able to come up with new, better security messages. Unfortunately, it has just come quite differently and the excessive crime is causing the population an extraordinary burden. That is why I would like to say thank you to the police who serve under these special conditions, and also to my thanks, because that would not be necessary in itself, if you had finally heard the opposition's appeals. The belief in this safety report in the population is very limited anyway. I should remind you again that you don't believe this anymore. The citizen now has the choice: He either doesn't leave the house anymore, because there he has the great advantage of not becoming victims of a road robber, but at the same time the disadvantage that he may become a witness in his own house when he breaks down. That's the dilemma, as it is now. The prevention events are also interesting. There the population is suggested: Sets new windows, window grids and, and, new security doors et cetera. In order to give good advice to the citizen: Before he changes all of this, he might want to think about whether he's better off replacing the politicians who work there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This report – apart from the fact that it appeared too late – could be a proof of success for the work done, a decision-making aid for the executives and the Minister of Mrs. Finally, here is an appeal to all the state police officers, to all the executives: Do it to those federal army officers who possessed courage, wrote a letter to Mr Darabos and informed the minister responsible about the real conditions. I still lack this to a very large extent with our leaders, who should once develop a certain correctness and love for truth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now our Mrs Minister has also put forward a scientific method of counting. The learned Austrian can really be afraid of that! I don't know what it's supposed to be scientific. One and one is two, and when calculating back, in reconnaissance too; that would be good once. I would therefore like to take the following into account: The citizen has a right to safety, but a very special right – if I now refer to the security report and to the Criminal statistics are thinking about the truth in this country, and nothing else!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19963	The next speaker is Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19985	Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! I am quite right for Mr Mayerhofer as regards the appeals of the opposition parties; he has only forgotten the time because it was the appeal of the Socialist Group when he was sitting in the government with his party! [[Abg. Graubur: (with cheerfulness) He does not believe himself!]] These appeals have just disappeared, that's the problem. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But now? What are you doing now?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We still face the fact that crime is on the rise. That's actually a fact. But, just as a political grouping does, as the only all-healing tool to curb crime, it is a very simple bill. We've seen in the previous two and a half hours how the bills are, and that you're doing a little hard, because you're just quelling people a little bit. Crime is a phenomenon that not only affects Austria, and many who deal with it will understand it. They exist throughout Europe and beyond in other countries of the world, to a much greater extent. To pretend here that Austria is the world's crime hot spot, I believe, is not the facts. Ladies and gentlemen! Crime is also a sign of social insecurity. That is why it is a matter of policy to create the lever, to eliminate social inequalities and to give people work and prosperity – but not through a programme as you have just proposed, my ladies and gentlemen, from the liberals, but through very good programmes, which are at home at the party, which are really fighting for people's social concerns! You have to say that with all the clarity. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: At the FPÖ, right?]] It is therefore also important for a common Europe to act together in the social field, but also to act in the fight against crime. That's very important. But I give the right to those who think that the act-reconnaissance must be better. This requires a framework that gives the executive the armor to handle the tasks. There are problems! Unfortunately, the sometimes positive sides of the reform are destroyed by the fact that the situation in the big cities has been underestimated; I have said that very often anyway. The extreme work loads have a large share of it. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, the executive officials feel like in a hamster wheel: They run and run, and it never stops! In addition, they are in many cases the first contact and reception point for many social developments, especially those of police officers who cannot always have solutions. Burnout and many other diseases occur more and more, as well as the lack of infrastructure. How is the education going to rise? – That’s just impossible! We should place much greater importance on the employees of our Austrian executive. Well-equipped police services, healthy and motivated police, especially the payment that starts with the students, all this guarantees the security of my esteemed ladies and gentlemen, but not the building of walls and the building of additional prisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20065	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20086	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, it was about two and a half hours ago, as you have explained to the House that you will now carry out a so-called quiz with the offenders the question of their motives, according to the research motto “Mitzis Eincherquiz”. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's gonna be funny!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Research work!]] The case, Mrs. Fekter, you will ever find in your life the criminal who stole your handbag, and you will then ask him personally in the context of this intruder quiz: How can I imagine that? [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] – Question: Why did you steal my handbag? – Several responses; first possible answer: Because my grandmother in Moldova wanted a beautiful handbag like that. Or second thing: Because I hate handbags. Or third: Because I like wearing women's handbags at night. Or fourth: Because I wanted to enrich myself. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mrs Bundesminister, most of the criminal offenders in Austria do not need to conduct quizs and surveys. She's fixed: Austria has become an invasion Eldorado, a crime paradise because people in our country want to enrich themselves on the wealth of foreign people! This is a fact, because I do not need to conduct major surveys or studies at the taxpayer's expense. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] I hear from your department, Mrs. Federal Minister – if you may listen, interrupt the activity on your signature folder and also devote yourself to security in that country – that you seem to be constantly wondering in your department why you have the worst survey values of all times and all surveys of all the Federal Governments of the Second Republic. Mrs Bundesminister, I can calm you down: They are not offenders who have been questioned here, for there you would become world champion of sympathy, in the quota of criminal offenders you still bring with your apparatus, popularly, into the “hafen”. Mrs Bundesminister, it is the Austrians who give you a devastating result in such surveys, because, thanks to your leadership, Austria stands as it says: It is the Eldorado, it is the intruder paradise for all criminals across Europe! Mr Westenthaler said it already today: Every class lottery, every game “6 out of 45” is apparently more uncertain and not to any degree as winning as if you were breaking into Austria. Not even every tenth burglar is captured in Austria! You know, Mrs. Federal Minister, it would be more honest if you made a profession out of the burglars and an economic chamber inn. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] This may be more honest than if you were to sue the people in this country that you were going to persecute criminals. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I emphasize: Not the police are to blame – not the police who do excellent and impeccable work every day! – no, but your management, which is seamlessly aligned with the management of your predecessors, starting with Strasser, has played a role under Strasser in party politics, but not in the security of Austrians. Let me give you an example from the second largest city in Austria, Graz: 60 crimes a day alone in 2008! Nine break-ins a day in the second largest city in Austria with 250 000 inhabitants – and an education rate of 7.5 percent! There is also no help for freezing crime statistics. Many in this House have said in recent years that you seem to be trying to fake crime statistics. Many have suspected that there is no evidence to this day – the evidence is available today! I read the District Police Commander's warrant of the 1st. As a result of your request, it was issued to all district commanders: It is not the number of offences to count, but the ads are to be counted. – This is proof of the crime summary: not wrongdoing or crime, but it is to be summarized in a crime! – This letter is signed by District Police Commander Trummer. It should be noted, therefore, that your arithmetical skills are not statistics, but statistics – and this is only a minimum. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... fake statistics!]] That's why I call you, Mrs. Minister: Stay with your count of pebbles, but please do not bother the safety of Austrians in the future! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There's another problem: Mrs. Minister doesn't listen at all!]] The fact is: Since Schengen, crime has increased, and you are doing everything you can to reduce staff. Many police officers tell us that too many crimes are only added to them as better notaries, then confirm for the assurance that an robbery or a burglary has happened, but they have not been able to explain these infrequents for a long time, because you save the necessary staff and also do not provide the police in guards. I can prove this to you, too, with a city police commander's order of 31. On 3 March 2009, Kurt Kemeter signed by the City Police Commander of the Styrian capital Graz. He has decreed that from Monday to Saturday during the night shifts and throughout the Sunday no more than 50 officials of the city of Graz will have to perform their duties. Do you know what that means? – A city of 250 000 inhabitants is only guarded by 50 officials during the night hours under the week and weekend. Mrs Bundesminister, if you only have a spark of this system, you know that you can't even carry out an alarm warrant again and explain another case. That's not responsible for what you're doing! I bring, in summary and in conclusion, another fact. I do not make you responsible for crime, Mrs Minister, nor do I say that you are the protective cover madonna of all criminals, as it seems to have been presented today; I do not say that, no. But you're not doing anything against crime! They shall not take any action in accordance with the motto: Opium for the people, it's all right anyway! Mrs. Federal Minister, you're reporting on any search results today without you calling us numbers. This is not happening in this area, because people feel it every day, there is not only the feeling of uncertainty! There is no longer any single person in this country who has not already been victims of a crime or who has not been victims of a crime in his circle of acquaintances or relatives. That is why I call you, Mrs Fekter, three measures. First: Step back at last! You are not able to run this place. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Take the BIA right away!]] Secondly, we need an increase in executive forces. And thirdly, Call or your successor a security summit to which we finally add experts who explain to your “gold fascian” in the ministry how to actually protect Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20246	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20267	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Grosz, you become almost "nearly" when you are a member of the Security Corps and listen to you! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] This is actually a diffamation of the entire police force when you slander our high-ranking and best-working officer “gold fascinates”. I really want to know where you take your prepotence in your size! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not understand one thing with God: to accuse our minister, to stop recruiting staff or to do nothing, to do more at 400 planning posts, to train 400 officials more! I do not understand when you always discuss the security report exactly there or take out the figures that fit you. Today, we would actually debate the 2007 safety report, although very late, that's true: excellent data, excellent figures! Of course, there have been changes over the last two years that do not matter to us. We must respond to this, and the Federal Minister has responded to it. What are we supposed to do? We can't put a policeman behind every criminal, behind every wall of the house. When Mr. Grosz, as an example, takes Graz – only 50 officers for nighttime safety – as an example: Take other regions of Austria! That's on average, and that's basically all right. [[Abg. Grosz: That's even more sad!]] No, it's not sad, it works. [[Abg. Grosz: This is even more sad, an official for 5,000 people! Do you know what that means? Incredible!]] If you are constantly saying that statistics, criminal statistics are being faked, then please submit to our colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, that they are doing wrong. One can only enter the offences in the statistics as they occur, one cannot delete or divide something afterwards. So confess color! Do you think that officials and colleagues consciously record something wrong, misstatise it, and actually commit a fraud or criminal offence, or that they are too stupid? [[Abg. Grosz:... take care of the people, and now you're swinging big speeches!]] I'd suggest to you: Let us take the issue of security seriously together! We are not constantly insecure the Austrian population, but we are addressing the problems together wherever they are! [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: The population is uncertain!]] Mr Mayerhofer, if you make a mockery of prevention, I do not understand it at all, because it is one of the police's most important tasks in addition to repression and the Enlightenment to stop the people from providing themselves with protection through their own behaviour, through skillful behaviour. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Fekter must remain in office, because there is something going on! There is also something to be done for the safety of Austria. If we were to form a safety pool with you and include “safety experts” à la Grosz in this group, it would be really bad about safety in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20362	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20383	Ladies and gentlemen! The safety report also contains a statistics which has not yet been addressed. This is a statistics that has an extreme increase in ads because of crimes with a right-wing background. [[Abg. Grosz: Because of left-wing extremism and right-wing extremism!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] From 2006 to 2007, advertising increased by 80 percent because of crimes with a right-wing background. If now the FPÖ argument comes – as in the Committee, obviously a little ideological advocate of right-wing extremism – you should look at the left-wing crimes, then you can do it. I don't think it's a computer, but let's take a look at that. Ads with right-wing extreme motive: plus 80 percent; left-motivated criminal acts: minus 50 percent. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Condemnations?]] Or in absolute numbers: 752 ads with a right-hand background; 72 ads, 72 left-wing crimes. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this problem is to be taken seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Condemnations!]] We must not make the same mistake as in the 1990s in East Germany, since we have also had a lot of luggage and looked away. What was the result? – The far right have created so-called liberated zones that have become no-go areas for many. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: This was the communist education in the GDR!]] This problem must not be underestimated, so it must also be addressed with all determination so that the population is not terrorised. Ladies and gentlemen, the right-wing extreme violence does not occur in the Hooligan scene or just – because you say “mental justice” – in the burgers. No, Austria in March: Skinhead beats passerby, brutal death in the city, suspect from right-wing scene in jail. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Skinhead is setting up police presidents! In Bavaria!]] He's supposed to be in extreme circles, he's not supposed to know the victim. – That’s how reality looks, that’s the right-wing criminal scene at the moment! Mrs Fekter, when I address you to the committee and you tell me that the left are just as important to me, I am not satisfied because I do not ask you who you prefer to prosecute for ideological reasons, but I want to know how you react to this blasphemous rise in the right-wing advertising. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] You obviously have nothing to say. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The rule of law must show its teeth, police and justice are required. No wrong tolerance! Every crime belongs to persecution, without exception! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's why he's called the rule of law! Not left-handed!]] If any youth from some stupidity paints a cross of hooks, we'll make a disversion. He's not like a Nazi, and I'm not for stigmatizing him; there's nothing good about it. But he must know from the very beginning that the state is wrong to respond to it and does not look away! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: With the left-wing extremists, what are you doing?]] For the backmen and organizers of the far right networks we need the full program of the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen! We need to react to this. We need criminal law to its full extent. No relativization of the Prohibition Law! Second point: We should see who the ideological backmen of this right-wing extremism are. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Oilling!]] When I look at who appears in the Burschenbuden – the Neonazi Barde Müller; Mr Irving was obviously arrested before, but he was on the guest list – then that's not a small thing, but then obviously the ideological hub of that foot people sitting there, which then commits the crimes outside, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In the protection of immunity you can claim such a thing!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In the protection of immunity you can claim that!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Say this at a press conference! In the protection of immunity, you can claim that!]] Therefore – under black and blue this was obviously abolished for intervention – we also need the surveillance of the citizens again! If you are insured, if only soaked, sabered and sung there, then you can stop monitoring. But it belongs once, at the guest list, what is happening there in the burgers. Last point: We must use the right of assembly to stop the appearances of the right-wing criminal scene. In this sense, I also welcome the fact that the demonstration in Braunau has been banned. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] ==References== A demonstration of the NVP will take place in Linz in May. So that there are no misunderstandings: The National People's Party has nothing to do with the ÖVP. [[Abg. Grosz: Who knows?- Oh, my God!]] No Linzer wants the right-wing extreme criminal scene to make Linz unsafe, so it is also necessary to examine the possibilities offered by congregation law to prevent this march. I already have to say that it is interesting that the FPÖ in Linz has its EU election start on the same day. Obviously one wanted to save the mutual rallying participants travel and appointment stress. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We've been driving on 1st in 20 years. May be there!]] Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, you are required. I do not criticize the fact that the ads are rising, I see this quite positively. This shows that your officials are responding. But You now have to draw the right security policy conclusions from it, you cannot always rely on FPÖ. You also have to see it with other eyes: The FPÖ will in a sense perform an integration performance. While the paintball partners, as Strache says, sometimes still make forests, meadows and roads unsafe today, at least because of the integration performance of the FPÖ, Mr Strache is able to practise his raucous activity in Parliament non-violently. Don't rely on this integration activity of the FPÖ, Mrs. Federal Minister! I therefore ask you to respond adequately to the rise of ads with a right-wing background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20629	Mrs Lueger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20650	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that the much quoted 2007 Security Report, which is on the agenda today, needs some explanation. It extends its focus from crime prevention, crime investigation, human rights advisory board, migration, arms, crisis and disaster prevention, civil protection and much more. The second part deals with extensive statistics on internal security. In the Committee itself, we did not actually talk about the security report, as the opposition parties felt that the figures were too old and therefore not worth a discussion. I would recommend it anyway. It is a shame that Mr Vilimsky is not here, because he could read those figures that Mrs Fekter mentioned first on page 197 of the safety report. Only: If I haven't read it, I can't talk about it either – and can refer to current numbers. It is also impossible to understand those figures which Mr Westenthaler has mentioned. [[Abg. Grosz: Take this back!]] He just made the claim in the room that any second asylum seekers would be criminal. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's right!]] – It is not understandable what you put in the room! The security report contains figures that disprove this! And you will certainly not accuse those who have created it that they have manipulated these numbers! Nevertheless, I would now like to come to the crime statistics of this year or the first three months. I would like to address two positive points: firstly, the sharp decline in youth and child crime. For the under tens, we have a minus of 9.1 percent, for the ten to 14 year olds a minus of 16.5 percent, and for the 14 to 18 year olds a minus of 8.2 percent. I say forward-looking or, therefore, because you are always making fun of prevention, this very positive development is due to the strong media presence, intensive prevention work in schools and excellent networking, and the resulting project work, which is mostly tailored to the Gravetzel, in many local areas has led to the fact that this decline was so strong. We all agreed that we wished – the Minister of Justice has today also promised – that the 2008 Security Report would come already in the summer of this year, and that there will be a networking with the Federal Minister of Justice in order to achieve a better understanding between the ads and the convictions, thus strengthening the power of statement. [[Abg. Grosz: Or next year!]] [[Abg. Pendl: Great!]] We will therefore vote in favour of the 2007 Security Report and wait for the next one.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20730	I call Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20767	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pendl, I know your speech has been a long time ago, but I can still make a small replica in your direction. It is obvious that the SPÖ's language regime, as soon as the Prime Minister's or the Executive Criticism comes into play, will immediately bring FPÖ's government participation into play – and then a Konnex will be created immediately. I ask you: If everything was so bad, why didn't your Chancellor Gusenbauer take all these supposedly bad things back? [[Abg. Grosz: The “great” chairwoman Gusenbauer!]] Why didn't Gusenbauer do that?- Oh, my God! So it can't have been that bad. On the contrary: I know that during his term of office as Federal Chancellor and responsible for the planning situation in the public service at the Executive 396 office he has definitely saved. [[Buhrufe bei FPÖ and BZÖ.]] – This can be clearly read from the latest financial budget report. That's how it looks! But on the matter: Mrs Fekter, I can refer to your press release from this afternoon, 15.54 p.m., on today's safety report 2007. It says – I quote – that: 'We have 1 000 training places per year,' In the case of a natural exit of 800 police forces, there was a plus of 200 ().’ [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That is, kindly said, the untruth!]] They know – I assume – that the training of a police officer lasts for 24 months, saying two years. Every year we could train 2 500 executive officials at 5 000 training places. A parliamentary question was raised on the 2nd of July. February of this year you informed me that by 2013 2 226 executive officials will retire. This results in an increase of only 274 officials within a 5-year calculation period – and no more than 200 per year! But obviously this is the same discrepancy that we have already experienced in the committee; the Ministry of the Interior does not take it exactly with the figures! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bravo!]] With regard to this press release, I would like to address another point: They are talking about key strategies needed to master crime. I'm with you in principle. However, if these strategies look so as to bring together police officers from all parts of the country to mediate announced priority actions, which there are then almost as a fairy tale police of the population security, while they are missing in their own tribal departments and in the areas where they should actually serve, and thus opening up the crime almost door and gate again, I must tell you: This is the wrong way to increase security efficiency in Austria! I may perhaps express it a little bit plausibly and conclude with these words: Mrs. Minister, while you're collapsing the executive in front of the House of Austria for the media group photo, organized gangs – that is, supposedly the Serbs and the Germans, as you said in the committee – clear the House of Austria through the back door! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20845	Mr Gahr has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20867	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Estimated Tyrolean friends at the gallery! Thank God you are also a few Tyroleans in Parliament! We are discussing the safety report today. There is, as it were, an East-West gap: in the East, development is relatively rapid, while for the West of the Security Report 2007 there is some stability. This clearly shows that, especially in the East – I mention in this context the key words of East Borders, Openness, Schengen – and from the point of view of the structural reform “team04”, where there is overall need for improvement and optimization. But I think our Mrs. Federal Minister is brave on the road, and you are changing structures. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very!]] – Yes, God be Thank you, Mrs Bundesminister, for changing structures and improving where there are problems. [[Abg. Grosz: Whoever has such a defender needs no enemies!]] This safety report, I believe, is an important basis for making comparisons in this area and highlighting the potential for optimization. A brief replica shows that we are well located at the 2007 Enlightenment Rate, but unfortunately in 2008 we have fallen a little. But also in the field of fines – there are also positive things for the state – there are revenue increases of € 36.3 million, i.e. 28 percent. I believe that there have also been improvements in radar penalties in this area. But this also shows that our executive is on the spot. Yeah, and since you're talking about it, Afterwards, I think it's about security and that we're optimizing our system. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's great!]] I am grateful to Mrs Fekter for having announced today that in the future this security report will be increased in the power of statement to respond to the scenarios after which crime becomes more complex and incalculable. I also say in this round: Mr Pilz is not sitting there now, but he has spoken about this today that the working conditions do not fit so much. If we were talking about control, DNA analysis, and fingerprints here, he would do that every time. And if Mr Pilz is saying here today that we are not using working methods properly in this area, this shows, I believe, that he is acting only with polemics and is not concerned with safety, but is helping to spread panic in the country. We reject that. We trust in our Federal Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20928	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20951	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! When I heard the banishment of my colleague Steinhauser, the protection hand of the left-wing extremes against the protection hand of the right-wings, I would now say, a saying of Helmut Qualtinger has come to my mind: ‘Simmering against Kapfenberg, the non i brutality’. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] Mr Farkas has said here that since 2000, since the Blue Government's participation in the government, it has certainly gone down. [[Call the SPÖ:Fazekas, not Farkas!]] Fazekas, excuse me! [[Call at the BZÖ:Waldbrunn is behind it!]] [[Cheerfulness in the hall.]] Mr Fazekas has said that since 2000 it has been safe to go down. Mr. Col., you may have memory gaps. Thanks to your then Minister from a very far-left point of view One thing at that time – I think that in 1997 – it was going down deep. The executive has barely recovered from it. However, I must highlight the police reform positively in certain areas. It has also been done a lot better. Unfortunately, some reform steps have not been completed, there have been several resistances. Here you can certainly improve it a little bit. Mr. Kapeller, you have spoken about the fact that there are now 400 trainees in the police schools. [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: Here!]] – That’s all good and right, but when you think about how many retire at the same time...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21010	Excuse me, my colleague, would be Please be so kind as not to film the documents! There are agreements on this!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21029	You'd have to look at how many of you're really left with plus afterwards. I think there's a minute left. As far as I know, more officials are going to retire than new ones are. Now to the 2007 Security Report. – A lot has already been said about it today. We'll see what happens in the fast-paced time. This report is really something for the history books, for reading, if someone is interested, but he has nothing to do with the reality of today. Mr Gahr mentioned earlier that the world is still in order in the West. Mr Commissioner, this may be true of Tyrol. But I will bring a few figures from the beautiful state of Vorarlberg – that is, in front of the Arlberg. In Vorarlberg, we have an increase in total crime of 15.4 percent for January 2009. [[Abg. May. Bucher: Is incredible!]] I think a safe country looks different. If I continue to play this so to speak, I have the comparison January 2008 to February 2008: plus 10.6 percent. Security looks different! If you have read the newspapers lately, you will still have read about Vorarlberg of burglaries on the bright day and nothings. The executive doesn't know where to start, she's sickly overburdened. There are too few staff at all corners and ends, even if there were sufficient staff on paper or according to statistics. In reality, it is not there because it is otherwise assigned, in other areas or perhaps not used in the right places. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kößl – unfortunately he is not here now – had spoken in committee about what Mrs Minister is doing against the increased robbery of gas stations, banks and postal offices. At the post offices we know: Mrs Bures closes her. – So clear thing, you can also lower the statistics! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] [[Call the BZÖ: Pendl, give a Rua!]] What we need is more personnel that can be used to combat higher crime. I think there's a lot of shit going on here. The system also fails in certain areas. If only very few officials are on the move at night, it is clear that we have too few staff. People can't be on duty around the clock. This is where we need to take measures to make the country of Austria safer again! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Minister, Vienna has also been mentioned at the speaker's desk today. I have here a quote from Mr. Pürstl, who, according to your criticism of the Vienna police, holds a little protective hand over executives in Vienna – and rightly so. The conditions under which colleagues in Vienna have to work are shocking – whether from the structural point of view, from the departments, as far as human resources are concerned, as regards the enormously exploding crime. Not only in Vorarlberg, the crime rates rise so massively, but throughout Austria. I would like to quote from a press service of the BMI: Gas station raids: increase from 4 to 23 cases in the first three months of 2009; Robbery on passers-by: increase from 377 to 413 cases; Robbery on taxi drivers: increase from 4 to 13 cases; Intangible thefts – and I am very concerned about that – are: increase by plus 58.3 percent; Theft of motor vehicles or motorcycles: plus 6.8 percent. - Quote. Madam Minister, I am sure you will not want to explain to me that the world is in order. I can only ask you for something, and I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Pendl always thank you. However, I would really like to thank the colleagues of the police, namely those who are overburdened executive officials who really do carry out their duties according to prescription, although they are heavily burdened and really suffer from burn-out syndrome. [[Abg. Pendl: Yes!]] I would like to thank the officials who are frustrated because they always show up without being helped by politics. I would also like to thank those officials who are permanently abandoned by politics, by those who are politically responsible. Thank you so much for continuing to do the job and for allowing the population in Austria to sleep half safely! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, I would like to say something to the Minister, namely, two questions. First question: How does it look in the budget with post closures? One hears that more and more staff should come or come, but if you calculate the funds, the first people who have been involved are already making an alarm, because it is thought to save in the area of infrastructure and logistics. What does that mean for post closures? Is there something planned? My second question is: What do you need books entitled “Czech in the EU” in English when it comes to training in the police school? They cost a lot of money that could be used much better. I mean, there's a waste of money that could better be invested in the actual tasks of the executive! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21122	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21160	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Representatives of the opposition parties presented crime developments and crime groups in a very plausible manner, thus giving rise to the appearance as if these were the very big problems. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There are areas of crime resulting from the 2007 Security Report, which are totally underestimated, in particular by the Freedom Party. I remember Mr Vilimsky saying in the Committee on the Interior, why the Chancellor's Party is addressing issues of Internet crime. – High House, Dear Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in 2007, the Internet crime reached its peak: There were 4 086 offences through IT medium. In 2006, it was only 3 335; in 2005 only 2 430. Why do I say that? – Because issues of Internet crime seem to be underestimated here in this House and in particular with the Freedom Party. As a consumer protectionist, we are constantly confronted with such problems when consumers are cheated on the Internet. By the way, I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior and the Minister for Justice for answering my parliamentary questions. I know it is a great effort, but these answers give me the opportunity to argue accordingly here in the House. Now on questions from the Internet auctions. - High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In 2008, there were 2 206 cases alone, in 2007 there were only 1,976 cases. What's this about? – People who want to get something over the Internet, in this virtual market, are simply cheated. The House, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should pay more attention to this very delinquency, because not only the individual is in danger, but Internet crime in international development poses a danger to society as a whole and to the state. Finally, a number: Symantec has presented the potential damage worldwide in a recent study. It's $7 billion a year. The figures for Europe are not available. I think we must act here, and I can assure you, on behalf of my group, Mrs Fekter, of our absolute support in this area. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21197	Next speaker: Mr Ddr. Werner Königshofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21222	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a Tyrolean Member of Parliament, I would like to address a very special problem today and show you this, a problem that not only you, Mrs Federal Minister, know, but also your predecessor, Mr Platter, the current head of state of Tyrol, has already known: Innsbruck has been held hostage for years by an aggressive North African scene. These are hundreds of criminals who come from Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco via Italy and across the open border to Innsbruck and carry out their criminal trade, namely trafficking in drugs. That's why they do because they can achieve only €3-4 for a gram of heroin in Milan, but in Innsbruck the market is still better for them and the price is about €10. If these rulers will “be entered ” in their criminal activity, as it is so beautiful to say in official German, they will call: Asylum, asylum, and already the procedure is under way, and they will be friends of our Green-Left Group. Then they get into basic care, and their criminal action and action continues. In Innsbruck, entire districts are in the grip of these criminal North African bands. I can tell you what these reigns have already done in Tyrol. I am not bringing statistical figures here, but I am bringing you three cases so that you can see how tight this development is. In February 2005, five criminals – schinasylants, asylum scams – attacked, robbed and raped two Austrian women in Wattens near Innsbruck, who were on their way to shift work. – Ladies and gentlemen, this has happened in Austria for the last time about 60 years ago in the Russian occupation zone – but unfortunately there is something like this again in Tyrol today. We don't want that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In another case, which has just happened recently – Mr Huber knows him from a question response – four North African criminals have held and disgraced a girl, a seventeen-year-old, in Innsbruck for hours in her violence. The girl was drunk and incompetent; that is, the lawyer calls it not rape, but disgrace. The four were arrested. One of them was injured and was then kindly treated immediately at the Innsbruck Children's Hospital. The last case, also a crass case, happened last Saturday at 9 p.m. in Innsbruck in a tramway. I quote from yesterday’s “Tyrol Newspaper”: Black riders turned through. Because an IVB passenger was caught without a ticket – a North African – he went through. He cut his arm with a razor blade. A bloodbath in the tram was the result. - Quote. So much about the cultural differences in black riders when they come from Tyrol or from North Africa. Ladies and gentlemen, some Tyrolean Members have already recognized this, but a few years too late. Mrs. Worm and dear Hermann Gahr, you then turned to the press, showed this up a few weeks ago. We did this years ago. We've done this before thousands of crimes were committed by these sham asylants. And: The municipal council of Innsbruck has taken a decision. Of 40 councils, 32 agreed to address this problem to the Federal Government in Vienna. Eight councils, Greens, did not agree. However, these 32 councillors, including the mayor and vice-president, are now severely disappointed because they have not received any response from the Federal Government. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: We have put in place measures!]] You've taken action? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Yes,...!]] – Well, look at what's happening in Innsbruck, Mrs. Minister! However, the Innsbruck communities are disappointed. They didn't go to the press for nothing with their disappointment. So that we can speed things up a little bit, I now make the following request – it is almost the same as the Innsbruck municipal council decision –: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to agree to this request, particularly the Tyrolean Members, who have already been informed of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21306	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21364	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21385	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I can still remember when, last year, our Federal Minister for the Interior was praised. It began the fight against youth crime at the beginning. She has confirmed the success of Mr Lueger. The only thing that concerns me in this context is vandalism or damage to property. If I make a very read-only daily of today, I can read the following – I quote – about the offences committed: "The damage to property is a mass crime, as is theft and burglary. It is difficult to explain because the structures are difficult to understand. Most of them are young people who become Vandalen from frustration and boredom.” – Quotes. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that is something that concerns all of us: as parents, as guardians of education, as teachers, as a whole society. I think we need to do something. And the Federal Minister will accept this very intensively. Mr Grosz – I am sorry he is not here now – I would like to say: I am also Grazer, and as a Grazer I notice that we have more executive officers in Graz than in 2007. I notice that the Graz police have much less agendas: The Graz police have no more parking control. The Graz police don't have the Pasamt anymore. The Graz police don't have a car registration office anymore. And the Graz police don't have the fund office either. So there's a lot of agendas out there. Nevertheless, we have an increasing rate of crime. But, Mr Grosz – I thought you were coming in now – if you already say that 50 people have night shifts, then you have to tell the truth half-way that it is much more officials this weekend and that it is also more officials in the night hours. [[Abg. Grosz: We have 14 officials less!]] [[Abg. Grosz: 14 officials since 2007 less!]] The only thing that is not true is perhaps related to the police director, but not to the Minister of the Interior, because Mr. Police Director can very well intervene in organizational management, and then he knows quite well that, for example, the Gries, the city centre, and the university meeting between Thursday and Saturday are the highlights of vandalism and criminal events. And if Mr. Police Director of Graz thinks only a little bit, he can employ the officials accordingly. – Just so much to Graz, Mr Grosz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21480	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21501	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr DDr. Kingshofer, even we don't want women to be raped. It does not matter to us, however, whether the perpetrator is a resident or a foreigner. It also doesn't matter whether the perpetrator is known to the victim or whether it's a stranger: We are always against violence against women! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Security is probably one of the highest goods, it is in the needs pyramid of the people in the first place. And that politics is called for and it is the task of politics to give the sense of security to people and to ensure that the goods and property are protected and thus taken into account the security need, in which I believe we are all of one's opinion. I am sure that we all agree, too, that it is positive that the government's programme states that over the next few years, 1,000 police officers will take up more service. It says that too, I guess, without any doubt. This is a very, very important measure, because in the years from 2000 to 2006 some 3,000 police officers were separated. And even though the colleagues from the FPÖ and the BZÖ did not like this, it was now under the government participation of liberals and also of BZÖ members. This measure, which we have now put into the government programme, is a very, very important one, Mr Grosz, because it simply shows that people's concerns are being taken seriously, and I am convinced that the police officers who will be more involved will also ensure greater security in Austria. Furthermore, this measure is important because it will relax the sometimes very tense situation of the local police. And it is very important that Mrs. Minister – as you have said in the Committee – that the pool that we have been talking about for a long time is really being filled with life and that the police officers who are going on police inspections – through assignments, through karenz leave – can really be represented, because the situation in the police stations is really one that leads to too much, very much overload of the colleagues. There is no question that crime development is worrying, but I believe we must all work together to find effective measures against it. In my opinion, it takes a lot of motivated policemen, it needs the best possible working conditions, and it also needs the best possible equipment. In this direction, work must be done, and the government is also working in this direction. This also shows the 2009 and 2010 budgets. What will not help, colleagues from the Freeman and also from the BZÖ, is that one deals only with this topic in a polemic way, that one seeks scapegoats and that one contributes to the division of society and not to solidarity and cohesion. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Who do we divide?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] I do not think it is useful to hotten and flatten 'colleagues from the FPÖ, but we must work together against crime and also ensure that the reconnaissance rate at last increases. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Who do we divide?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Who do we divide?]] Then people's security will be improved again.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21579	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21601	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== The report on the internal security of Austria, which is submitted annually to Parliament, was jointly prepared by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice and provides a very good overview of the current criminality in Austria and, secondly, a very good picture of Austrian legal and criminal justice. The safety report for 2007, like the reports of recent years, is very detailed, covers more than 700 pages, and it is very clear from statistics and graphics. Overall, it should be noted that overall crime increased slightly in 2007. In 2007, a total of 594 240 criminal acts were committed, i.e. 0.8 percent more than in the previous year. And the 240,849 offenders found out result in a 0.5 percent better reconnaissance rate than in the previous year. Nevertheless, Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, and the present security report of the Federal Government supports it accordingly. It is important how these figures and data are interpreted, and it is crucial to interpret the safety report properly. And here the spirits sometimes separate: On the one hand, at the government level, the right conclusions for politics are drawn from it, while on the other hand, some in the opposition would rather just cry. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: We are not sorry!]] Under the rule, thank you very much to all those who have worked on the security report, in particular both ministers, Federal Minister Fekter and Mrs Minister of Justice Bandion-Ortner. It is an excellent data material on which you can build.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21635	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21657	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! High house! Of course, it is not satisfactory for our Members to discuss the 2007 safety report in Parliament only in spring 2009. But there is an explanation for the delay: Late statistical data from the judicial department. However, the 2008 Security Report will be sent to us more quickly – the Minister has already said so – and the date will be summer 2009. However, the main problem with the security report is the limited comparability of statistics in the areas of home and justice, especially of the Ministry of the Interior with ads and on the other side of the Ministry of Justice with convictions. However, this problem has been known for a long time, and there is an urgent need for reflection here. This Federal Government has provided for revision in its programme, and a serious statement can be made after the coordination of statistics on internal and judicial affairs. According to the 2007 Security Report, over 594,000 crimes have been committed and reported. Every single crime is too much and is partly associated with great suffering for the victims. For 2009 we already have the first records, and unfortunately there is an increase in crime, an increase in the number of criminal offences. However, appropriate countermeasures have already been taken by the Federal Government. Firstly, long-term measures. The Federal Government has agreed that over the next five years, 1,000 police officers will be trained and trained each year. That is, after five years, 1,000 police officers are more on the job. [[Abg. Pendl: Great!]] The police will also improve their equipment. Furthermore, data protection is adapted to the technical challenges in order to ensure efficient crime control. Secondly, short-term measures. Strengthened police controls were carried out in conurbations along the main traffic routes, which was very successful. Nevertheless, many other measures are necessary in order to be able to counteract the increasing crime as effectively as possible. The decline in child and youth crime is very encouraging. Mr Lueger referred to it in her speech. To the BZÖ's security spokesperson also a comment. – Mr Westenthaler, in your statements on the security report, you have probably ‘difficulted’ the present figures in your favour – I say once. They spoke of 65 crimes per hour in the debate in the Committee on the Interior, of course, here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 67!]] – 65, you said! You put this number in the room very quickly, but does this figure also have a real background? A small example of this is: 65 crimes per hour, 24 times 365 results in 569 400 crimes per year. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's the number!]] The fact is, the 2007 Security Report states that there is not even a quarter of the crime. – Still too much, but your number is not right, which you have put in the room. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Punishment, not crime!]] Maybe a little definition: Crimes are all criminal acts with a criminal threat of more than three years, crimes are all with one under three years old. Let's leave the polemics and work together for our Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21738	The next speaker is Mr Maij-Wegzovits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21759	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Statements like: We have a security emergency! or: Vienna is an Eldorado for criminals and strizzis! were made here today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, I quoted a newspaper!]] – You will know! Or: “They are something like a patron saint of the organized intrusion” – so Mrs. Fekter has been titulated today. [[Abg. Amon: A scandal!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, particularly Mr Westenthaler and Mr Grosz. I don't know what country you live in, but you can't talk about the country I live in. [[Abg. Grosz: My apartment has already been opened! Thank you!]] The Republic of Austria is a very, very safe country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And not only do Austrians appreciate this, but they also appreciate the many guests who come to us. If you are talking about the opening of the Schengen border, that all criminals and criminals are invited to Austria, I can tell you, as citizens living on the border, that the crime statistics of the Burgenland, Mr. Westenthaler, are the only ones that show that we have the slightest rise in crime and 6 percent less crime, although we are now no longer Schengen external borders. It is thanks to our Mrs. Federal Minister and also to our police officers that they have been prepared in good time and that, with their good training, they also ensure that Austria is not the country you are talking about. [[Abg. Grosz: That's just the Pendl!]] Mr Westenthaler, I was very surprised that you said you were for the establishment of borders. This year, for the twentieth time, it is the case of the Iron Curtain, when Alois Mock, together with Gyula Horn, has torn down this border with us in St. Margarethen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: East border!]] They want to build borders – we want to reduce borders! If you start to reduce your limits in the heads, a crime statistics will also be interpreted as it is to be interpreted accordingly! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: An unlimited MP!]] You must also take note of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21872	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Schmijsschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21904	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2007 safety report, like the previous years' safety reports, goes very far into the Detail, with over 700 pages, numerous statistics and graphics includes a lot of content. I would like to address a very sensitive, but especially important issue for young people, namely drug crime. In 2007, a total of 24 166 ads were reimbursed under the Drug Law in Austria. Unfortunately, a trend can be seen in the area of drug problems in particular: Drug use or the drug scene is increasingly moving into rural areas. Thus, drug use is no longer only taking place in the centres of the population, but also more and more in the federal states outside. The use of drugs will soon no longer only take place in quiet streets in the anonymity of the big city or in dubious back rooms, no, there is a danger that drugs will soon be used at the kitchen table at the corner of the Lord's God. That is why I would like to thank Mrs Fekter and her executive officers for their strong commitment in this area. Many attacks, successful international cooperation and the numerous seizures of drugs are mentioned here. But it must also be the population of the world. It is the duty of politics, since it is not to speculate with others, to legalize or loosen something even in any area, as it has been the subject of so many times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No to statements such as the following: Well, once you can try it, once pull on a little stronger cigarette! – Appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, this is not fun! The report and statistics clearly show three drug addictions, which focus on the black market and thus on drug trafficking: In third place we find cocaine, in second place heroin, and in place one is cannabis, which is commonly considered the entry drug. Cannabis is the world's most consumed drug. The report also shows that most cannabis products are imported from the Netherlands, i.e. that country, which unfortunately has much too easy legislation in this area. In 2007 we had 175 drug deaths in Austria. It is particularly alarming that the largest group with 46 dead are the 20 to 24 year olds. In this area, we must continue to be very attentive, for one thing is quite clear: Drug dependence leads to isolation and isolation – and this is undoubtedly the feeding ground for further crimes!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21967	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report III-34. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. - That's accepted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ddr. Mr Königshofer, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. by the criminal North African scene became precarious security situation in Innsbruck. Whoever joins this request, I ask for a sign. – He finds no majority and is therefore rejected. [[18:49:13]] 5. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report, vol. 2009/1; Volume 2 – WIEDERVORLAGE (III-17/164 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22031	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22055	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! In the Court of Auditors’ Report, the Federal Government 2009/1; Volume 2 – WIEDERVORLAGE in a chapter we have worked very intensively on the comparison of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse with the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse ( Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse). Health insurance is a permanent topic. The Court of Auditors' present report and the comparison between Upper Austria and Vienna in this respect proceeds according to its ceiling, since the Court of Auditors has the task of examining the economy, economy and effectiveness. In the health system, however, it is also very important to build on the confidence of patients and all those involved in the health system, as well as to look at the efficiency in our health system, that the treatments are well done and completed successfully. Of course, it is also important to pay attention to high quality. For the first time, this Court of Auditors report acknowledged that the legal measures from 2000 to 2006 contributed very much to the deficit of the Vienna regional health fund. It has also been pointed out that the Vienna regional health fund has a “large city factor”, so that some things have to be calculated differently, because there are differences in whether you live in a big city where unemployment is higher and severe diseases occur much more frequently than in other areas of our country, or not. Furthermore, this report points out that the cost of medication is a very important factor, and also the medical and medical fees. The measures proposed by the Court of Auditors have been implemented by the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse: in the case of fees, the reduction of tariffs, the limitation of expenditure and the revision of the service catalogues. Here again, an example of the fact that the Court of Auditors, in its lively exchange with our political system, continues to make improvements towards sparing, but there must also be improvements in the way that the system remains efficient and people continue to have confidence in the system. At the Committee meeting, Federal Minister Stöger said that patient care is a very important area in our country – and not, as requested by the opposition parties, health insurance associations, so that this will make a health insurance institution. On the contrary! Then patient care means to be on-site, means to be with the people and also means direct, efficient and successful help. It is important that benchmarks be introduced to ensure that quality improvements take place, because health is a precious asset – and we also need to call the health system a valuable asset, a system in which one can continue to work with trust, efficiency and high quality.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22106	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22128	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. I would like to draw from this report III-17 of the Supplements two examples: a positive example and, unfortunately, a more negative example from my point of view. First, as a positive example of the report on Austria's advertising, where the Court of Auditors examined the development of Austria's advertising from 2000 to 2006. The restructurings were assessed and presented as positive, as well as strategic orientation and overall labour efficiency. Even after the change in management in 2006, now the managing director is Dr. Stolba, who by the way has given very competent answers in the committee, the system works in Austria advertising. At the time, it was precisely the case that advertising in Austria took the Court of Auditors' recommendations seriously. There was an examination – and at the time it was Federal Minister Bartenstein who, starting from the RH-Rohreport, commissioned the implementation of the Court of Auditors’ recommendations. In this context, business agreements have been concluded, cost management has been introduced, the salary system has been changed on a performance basis and many more things have been done. – So overall thanks and praise for this report. There are quite a few suggestions about this, and I think they are quite feasible. We often discuss public institutions here in the House, where the Court of Auditors' recommendations have not been implemented. I therefore believe that such positive things and reports should be taken as a model, including in other institutions. For the second comparison – Mr Lapp has already mentioned this – to the comparison between the regional health telephone Vienna and Upper Austria, which I have to say critically that, unfortunately, many of the Court's recommendations have not been implemented. Yes, there are different requirements and requirements in these two cash registers, but one has to say that the legal frameworks are roughly the same. You can also see very clearly what functionaries can do, what the management of the company, what the employees can do from it – and that is where Oberösterreich is cutting off extremely well. My colleagues from Upper Austria, Singer and Wöginger will report in detail. At any rate, the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse ( Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse) was able to see exactly: One can increase efficiency, adjust tariffs, and also introduce fees limits. In Upper Austria, Honorary amount-limitation savings amounted to € 28.8 million. – Unfortunately, this has not been enforced in Vienna. In conclusion – and with every appreciation for certain officials –: In fact, I was very angry that the chairman of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, Franz Bittner, was not at all clear in the committee and tried to shift everything to politics. Federal Minister and Deputy Chancellor Pröll said clearly today: Money for the local health phone, yes, and you will be able to provide bridging aid, will help financially, but structural measures must also be implemented. – This approach, as clearly indicated by the Minister of Finance, is the right approach and needs to be dealt with in all local health telephones. A lot of money flows into the health system of taxpayers. I therefore believe that it must be up to everyone to use this public money efficiently, with a measure of economy, in the interests of citizens. The principle of solidarity in the social system – as requested by the Court of Auditors – must grasp, and therefore, as I believe, such comparisons between individual states, when we have always been talking about federal systems, are exactly the right approach, which the Court of Auditors clearly points out. I would like to thank these employees and officials who support reforms that implement them – and not put their guilt on others. In this sense: To show responsibility, accept responsibility, and manage sparingly in the field of health telephones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22198	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22219	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr President, Mr Moser! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to join with what my previous speaker said that health insurance companies have to do. – Of course, health insurance schemes should implement the Court’s recommendations. Of course, this should also be done by the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, but it was nevertheless possible to read out from this report of the Court of Auditors – you have to say quite honestly –: Now there is the time to put these health insurance funds together – and then we don't need such comparisons at all, and then we don't have to fight around, which president is the better or the less good one who worked better or worse. Austria is a small country, and it is really not to be seen that people get different supplies only by chance, through where they are accidentally born, where they work by chance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A combination of the local health phone does not mean that the patient's care is getting worse on the ground or that doctors would be withdrawn, but we simply want to make the administration slimmer. In this context, I have put a question, and I would like to stress very clearly now that President Bittner, as the chairman of the Vienna County Hospital, has so far been the first and only one to answer this question. To answer this question itself: It is already very clear that almost 40 percent of all employees are needed for administration and that per sonal costs for the administration in 2008 were € 87 million per month at the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. Since, ladies and gentlemen, you can no longer say that everything has narrowed down anyway, but there is now the command of the hour to finally save, finally put the cash registers together and make the administration slimmer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] It is not necessary – I tell you quite honestly – that in every federal state there are health insurance palaces, and unfortunately I can only quote here the example of Vienna, where it is shown that for the administrative building on Wienerberg monthly operating costs of € 100 000 are charged. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is crazy! That's done, it's slimmed, because we don't need it either! - No, I'm sorry! [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: There's a health center in there!]] It is quite precisely listed here: Total operating costs for the administrative building of the Landeskrankenkasse am Wienerberg: exactly 984,26 € per month! This amount must be spent only on the Wienerberg monthly. That's something I'm saying: We cannot afford to do that, we do not need to afford it! And that's just one of nine buildings we have for the local health phone. That is why, at last, a merger of the cash registers must take place. Ladies and gentlemen, the combination of the health insurance companies is a command of the hour. It's not polemic to say: Let's finally put the checkouts together! Let's give back the money that patients pay, even if they need it when they're sick, and let's not waste it by bloating ourselves in this area of bloated administration by spending huge sample palaces that devour huge amounts of money! This Court of Auditors report also shows that in 2006 the Vienna Regional Health Fund would no longer have been able to provide the population with proper care. This must give us thought, ladies and gentlemen. It can't be that on the one hand, we have to spend so much money on administration and on the other hand, people really need to be afraid of their care. If Minister of Finance says Pröll, despite the debt he's sleeping well, I have to say: This is very good for the Minister of Finance, but I wonder if the Austrians will do the same if they ask themselves if their health care is still secure in the next few years!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22278	The next item is Mr Grosz. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22299	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Estimated members of the Federal Government! You can still shout out of the trade union series when my predecessor calls for the merger of social security institutions, as you can still complain that you have obviously shuddered as union officials due to the lack of professional opportunities in the protected area of social security institutions, so that you can create a living basis at the expense of the contributors and the patients and then register the pension, despite all of this, we remain in our demand. I have to find the entrance: I am surprised that the Minister of Health is here – I also thank him for being here; I ask him not to misunderstand that – but where is the Minister of Social Affairs? Both resorts have a supervisory duty and both resorts have a supervisory right, and therefore it would only have been appropriate for the Social Minister to return to the Government Bank after his sausage breaks, in order to discuss a really essential issue also on the basis of this Court of Auditors report. This is about the Wiener Gebietskrankenkasse, it is by far one of the largest “scandal-sickness-phones”, which in the last eight and nine years have kept considering us with record deficits. But this report by the Court of Auditors, for which I thank the President and also his staff, is only a mosaic stone, is only a synonym for the overall state of the Austrian regional health telephone. Mr Belakovich-Jenewein said that there was only one example for this, namely Vienna. I will give you the example of Styria: €50 million in salary costs for 1 220 employees in 2008, 74 service weights et cetera, and that at the same deficit level, namely €56 million. Deficit € 56 million and salary costs € 50 million – even with a weak mathematical understanding it could be that it starts to slow you down, though only slowly that something is wrong. We don't give up hope. That is why we also take this report on the occasion of calling for the consistent aggregation of social security institutions to bring together social security institutions and to decompose administrative areas to use synergies, but above all to finally introduce performance justice in Austria. [[OBJECTIVES]] We from the BZÖ want to achieve justice between Neusiedler See and Lake Constance, we want to get equal benefits throughout the Austrian health system for equal contribution payments and that not the hard-worked contribution money, the patient's money, the employee's money, the business money in Austria will be misused to allow Mr. Obmann Bittner in Vienna and Mr. Obmann Pesserl to be led from one buffet to another in Styria with their shifts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22348	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. I would like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22369	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! To my previous speaker: My God, if all of this were so simple, we wouldn't need the Court of Auditors. I would also like to have it if we sometimes operate here with fluffy sayings or if we are otherwise criticised, but you know, Mr Grosz, if that is all that can be read from the Court of Auditors' report, that we say – but I do not want to appreciate the joke – that we are being led from one buffet to another with service workers, then I must say: I'm more interested in looking at all the privileges and going in there, so to speak. For this purpose You always have us as a partner, we are always ahead of you. But the point is quite different when you look closely. With regard to administrative and representation costs, if they play such a major role in health insurance, one will find in the comparative report – in fact, far too little has been done about what the Court of Auditors' methodological performance in this area is and was – if one looks at the administrative costs in relation to the total costs, one finds: It is true that you also need more efficiency there, but we will not solve the problem alone, not even close. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why it is useful to look at the Court of Auditors' central statements. I would also like to thank the introduction of this method; it is not so simple to make comparisons. Exactly, just, right and true is not like everything in life at the end of it, but it's a very big approach. There are several effects that have been isolated, so that you come back to a semi-good comparison. The selection of the Upper Austrians, who were also very bad in the deficit – I think it was 17 years ago – and then developed differently from the Vienna where the deficit is higher, I believe, was correct and reasonable. But to derive from it and to say only because of this: There are the good and there are the bad! would be wrong. Then you don't get anything or you don't want to get anything, because that's exactly the performance that was done here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is nothing to be done if we were to discuss the matter in Parliament at 7 p.m. if we were actually able to look at it on the material basis. My colleague, Mr Oellinger, will still comment on a few things, so I can do this at this point more briefly and draw attention to a few things where I have noticed that this is a very big issue. When in Upper Austria and In Vienna has different conditions and if you are so much better in a rest area in Upper Austria – always only in the comparison of numbers; the comparison of performance is different again – then this is one thing. But if you also pay attention to the additional factors that are particularly stronger, different or more negative in Vienna than in Upper Austria, then you notice two things that are not so much at the heart of this report, but if you were allowed to talk to your officials for long enough, you know that too. The question of the distribution of power in the negotiations, of course, arises here. If the Vienna Chamber of Physicians is set up as we are now experiencing, and if it can drive more or less unlit by politics, I have to say: This is also part of the result, because negotiation results always have something to do with the initial situation of the negotiating power. You shouldn't miss that! That should take those who are very happy to show up there. Mr Bittner is to be criticized where he is to be criticized, and he is to be supported where he needs support, and not to pass through the country with the drench and not even through this House. The other story is – and perhaps the Dreschschegel would be really worth it to simply hit the grain and separate Spreu from the wheat – the relationship to the pharmaceutical industry. Even if this was not primarily in the report, it is striking that where the conditions are a little worse, the pharmaceutical industry, which reaches the negotiating power, has better conditions to widen out where the stories are shown to be mediated differently for the same things. And I think that's a problem. If you go deeper and more deeply and talk to Mr Bittner about what we have done in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, I have to say: At least at this point, he was the credible witness for me that this was not drawn to the hair, namely that one has to see where the health system really distributes power so that you, Mr Health Minister, have a little more room for play. But you have to fight for the room yourself. Even if you represented the good Upper Austrian model because you had it to manage before, I would already appeal to you: If this report is also interpreted politically – and I plead for that – then just listens to it, not to say: Here are the good ones and there are the bad ones!, but that one says who the players are behind them. And if it is true that we should shape politics, we will do the same!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22438	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22457	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I should like to comment briefly on this item on the agenda and refer to a few key elements of the underlying review. The Wiener Landeskrankenkasse had a balance sheet loss of €71 million in 2006, and the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse had a profit of €15 million. We have 1.5 million entitled persons in Vienna and 1.4 million are entitled to entitlement in Upper Austria. At the end of 2009, the Upper Austrian CCC expects a clean capacity of €253 million, and the negative cleanness of the Vienna regional health insurance fund is forecast at almost €650 million. I assume you know the Court of Auditors report. The Court of Auditors, in a highly qualified way, compared these two cash offices and looked at them very closely where changes have occurred and how these results have come about. The main statements were that the legislative measures had an impact on both cash offices. For example, the new regulation of contributions to the health insurance of the unemployed in the Vienna regional health insurance fund has resulted in less revenue of € 41.6 million. The non-replaced expenditure on the weekly fee was €26.7 million at the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, which is also to be booked as a reduction. The triggering of contract staff from the group of compulsory insured persons according to the ASVG in 2006 led to a loss of income of €7 million at the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. At the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse, this amount was even higher at €8.1 million. The loss from the only partial pre-tax replacement after the GSBG was €19.6 million at the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, and €8.2 million in the Upper Austrian CCC. The new scheme of hospital financing in 2001 led to an additional burden of €12.2 million for the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse in 2006 and €10.6 million in the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse. It would be inappropriate to consider administrative costs alone as the cause of the negative development of the cash registers. The cost drivers are not to be found there. As regards the merger of the cash registers and the harmonisation of the benefits and the medical fees, which has often been required for parts of the opposition, I note that: I am clearly opposed to such a measure. Why? – This report has shown that benchmarks are necessary for further development of the system, that it is necessary to try out different ways of access and solutions. I don't think any of the fees are equal, either, because they would only be levelled at the highest level. If you compare, you will see: All federal banks pay higher contributions to the medical profession and also pay higher contributions in the field of medicine. In reality, this human-oriented system creates a very, very good comparison, and by doing so you are also trying to act cost-effectively. In the final effect, it is important not to put structural criteria in the foreground, but results criteria, because people need results. We're not so bad. We were in the first place in 2007 in the presentation of the health system we have from the perspective of patients. In 2008, we were still in considerable third place. We have one of the best health systems in the world. The Federal Government has responded. Through my initiative, a package of measures was decided in the government clause in Sillian to ensure the long-term balanced conduct and the gradual reduction of the negative clean-up assets, i.e. the decommissioning of social health insurance companies. This has also been expressed in the budget speech today. In this sense, €45 million was made available as a unique amount for 2009. We build a cash-flow structure fund with an annual donation; for 2010 it is €100 million. We take measures to improve quality and to ensure transparency. We put in place economic measures in the area of established/ambulatory areas. We take measures to optimize contract relations. There are cost-absorbing measures in the case of medicinal products. I am thinking, among other things, of the e-medication that will play a major role in this. And of course we will also optimize and implement internal organizational, structural and administrative potentials. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am prepared to continue with all those involved in the constructive dialogue that has already been launched, and I will not exclude anyone, and to discuss realistic ideas on the various areas of the overall package. I would like to express my express thanks to the Court of Auditors for this qualified report.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22540	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22561	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! If one has followed the previous debate, one must say: It's really interesting what's going on. This report can be read out, for example, if Mr Grosz believes that in the Styrian local health fund, the staff cost is 50 million and there is a 56 million drop. If he had kept talking, which was not the case, maybe he would have meant leaving the staff there. Then the Styrian local health insurance fund would be balanced. So really ‘interesting’ data, of which this report does not contain anything. Mr Gahr, on the other hand, has said that the Austrian advertising has already implemented everything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] Mostly! I do not know whether this is actually the case, Mr President of the Court of Auditors. I think the follow-up test will follow. It's gonna be exciting. If it really is, it's good. But I would like to point out one thing: I wonder how to make up for the invitation to tender of the managing director, where there were twelve applications, where a hearing was promised, and where one suddenly came to realize that one does not need the hearing, because the old managing director was so good that one does not have to look at the applications at all. The reason why you've done this is really exciting. After everyone here probably had to deal with public invitations to tender for posts, I can only read them read them out in writing. It reads: ‘In addition, the proposed procedure in the course of the preparation of the procedure had been set up as a ‘linebook’ and was also decided by the Bureau. The Bureau would therefore have been entitled to amend the procedure originally envisaged." That's really exciting! This is about public money. Austria's advertising is financed mainly by public funds. It is quite simply an invitation to tender for null and void. The people who applied did a writing exercise, so to speak, because the old managing director was so good anyway. In my view, these are ways that should not be imitated.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22613	Next, Mr Singer. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22634	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! The Court of Auditors' report does not leave a good hair at the Vienna regional health fund, in reality it is debilitating. The RH report shall read the following: “The over-indebtedness was so high that the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse was dependent on the creditors’ good will to grant them further credit. A loan received today by the Vienna regional health insurance fund is likely to be covered only by further borrowings in the future.” Or: ‘The financial situation of the WCC (...) was extremely worrying at the end of 2006. The WGKK [...] will be charged with a further 45 million. EUR.’; In this tone there are many statements in this report. In contrast, the Oberösterreichische Landeskrankenkasse: The implementation of the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors has also succeeded in achieving an increase of €15 million in 2006. and this, although the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse had around 108 € per entitled income at its disposal more than the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse. That is to say, the difference is exclusively due to extra expenditure. A small excursion from it: Eye pressure measurements are honoured in Vienna with 9,60 €, in Upper Austria with 2,74 €, computer tomography: 155 € to 105 €, and a result report in Vienna was twice as expensive as in Upper Austria. In summary, the Court of Auditors sees a potential for savings – I can expressly say that – with the special conditions of Vienna – they have already been addressed by my previous speakers today – of around €80 million. It proposes a better control of medical aid and cure expenditure, a reduction in tariffs for comparable benefits, a reduction in total fees for general contracts, a reduction in administrative burden, and, for me, the creation of a restructuring plan. This rehabilitation concept is still not recognizable. Unfortunately, from the chairman of the Wiener Gebieskrankenkasse Bittner, the Court of Auditors was again only to hear the demand for more money. Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder, Why is there something in Upper Austria that is not possible in Vienna? – Because in Upper Austria there was obviously the will to change, even among the above Austrian doctors, and I can do so very positively. The Vienna regional health fund obviously lacks this willingness. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Payments to deficient health insurance funds are now planned again. I pay for compensation, I acknowledge solidarity, but I am committed to implementing the proposals and the measures required by the Court of Auditors, as was done in Upper Austria many years ago. I refuse to use compensation to stop holes! I call for finally a reorganisation concept, and I hope that these measures will not make a sentence from the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” last Saturday’s “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” a reality: “Vienna says one thing, it has solidified its deficit.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22695	The next point is Mr Grastaur's speech. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22717	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Now I have to hurry again, as before, I therefore start a motion for a resolution again. The report of the Court of Auditors III-17 also concerns the Austrian high school and the Austrian high school students. In this context, I would like to inform you of a motion for a resolution on the introduction of e-voting at the next high school election. I quote from the request: “At the ÖH elections at the end of May 2009, e-voting will be possible for the first time. It is applied as ‘The choice of the ÖH by mouse click’. Since the possibility of an unobserved and unimpeded vote and thus the preservation of the election secret is already problematic in the post election, it is foreseeable that an e-voting is still far more opportunities to circumvent the constitutionally guaranteed right to an equal, secret, direct right of election.” I would like to quote from the 2005 electoral order for this e-voting. § 68, understanding, reads: “Be declared invalid by e-voting” – one listens and marvels, in a secret election votes are declared invalid! – “This is how the voters concerned are to be informed in writing.” – This is really a disaster! I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution on behalf of the honourable Members: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now a few words to the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse: This Vienna regional health fund is actually pleaded. We have heard from the committee that there is a minimum of €610 million. I recall that social insurance is a total of €1.2 billion – a true game of mourning, and I believe that, according to what we have heard in the Court of Auditors, mourning is far from over. There is no concept of stopping this development, there is no concept of rehabilitating. But I do not want to go into detail anymore, these have already been explained in sufficient terms, I would just like to make two proposals. The first proposal concerns e-cards: I think one could save costs if we had a picture on the e-card and thus suggest to the misuse of this e-card a bar. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second proposal that I make is the pooling of health insurance, health insurance and 22 social insurance companies with 22 members, with 22 supervisory councils, with 22 board members only to do two times: one for the Austrians and one for foreigners. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22805	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22872	Mr Spadiut spoke next. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22896	Mr President. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! I would like to thank you for the Court of Auditors' report with regard to the comparison of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse and the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse. The disastrous financial situation of the health insurance companies is well known, but the Court of Auditors report makes it very clear how urgently a health reform or cash reform is needed. per claimable 106 € more for medical services than the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse. This is due, among other things, to the different pricing of doctors, as the doctors in Vienna demand higher tariffs than in Upper Austria; furthermore, different methods of examination, diagnosis and treatment are chosen in the federal states for the same diseases, which, in turn, leads to different costs. – All of this highlights our demand for uniform treatment directives, uniform service catalogues and uniform tariffs across the country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A reason for the better financial situation of the Upper Austrian Regional Health Fund is certainly also that patients in Upper Austria are moved from the settled to the stationary area, thereby reducing the cost of the local health telephone, which also distorts the tariff and the cost of the claimants. For this reason, we demand funding from a single source for the intramural and extramural areas. How important this is is is shown only by the example of the high costs of the Vienna regional health insurance fund, which arise from the outsourcing of preoperative diagnostics into the established area. Although the Greens do not necessarily want to be true, the misuse of the e-card by the high number of non-insurance foreigners living illegally in Vienna has a high share of higher expenditure. As studies in Germany show, this results in billions of additional costs. That is why we should accept the demand to provide the e-card with a photo and to upgrade the e-card by various entries. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you see that the Court of Auditors underlines exactly what we demand from the BZÖ for health reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22951	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22972	Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, we could say that the debate is unfortunately the same as it was to be feared: The one defends Vienna, the other attack Vienna; one says, Vienna is the model that others say, Upper Austria – one can also replace it with another federal country – is the model in this area. So, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, we will never bring together a health reform! And it would not change anything if, like the colleague before me now, for example, several parties thought we needed a checkout or we needed several checkouts. That is simply not the point! I have to say, Mr Federal Minister, that I like what you said, It's better though you're in my position. It depends on which goals I pursue. Our goal as a green person by pooling the cash registers is not primarily the cost savings – I would underestimate them – our goal is to achieve what is still missing in the Austrian health system and what has not been discussed in this debate: We have a multi-class health system! Why don't you talk about the following? – I'll give you an example, that's my personal experience, I'll give you a brief description: In the search for an ophthalmologist for my mother in Vienna, it happened to me – not only to an ophthalmologist, but to several; this is an experience that everyone else probably share or at least know – that I was asked: What is your mother's checkout? – Then I asked: Why do you want to know? – Answer: If she's with the local health insurance fund, half a year's waiting time if she's with one of the small federal banks, one month's waiting time if she's a private patient, she's coming right away. This is a reality, and I suspect that this is not only a reality in Vienna. – Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, says he does not know. I'll give you another example: My mother is from Upper Austria; she doesn't come to a hospital in Vienna. You know why: She is an above Austrian social insurance provider, and if you want to go to the AKH in Vienna or in one of the other hospitals, she needs an assignment by a specialist. What are the realities in Upper Austria? – The specialist, almost in any field, is usually also the one who is in the hospital of the doctor, the competent primary. And the competent primary in the hospital will not transfer the patient to Vienna, but he says: I'm doing just as well! – Then you just come to the competent district hospital or district hospital, but you do not come to Vienna to the top medicine. Mr Federal Minister, I tell you these are realities! You don't have to fix it to this example, but these are realities from everyday life that all insured people have to do with in different ways. If the doctors, who know me in part, talk to me and say, You do not believe, honourable Member, what we are experiencing in this and that area. – and there is class medicine, it is reality in Austria – then, I think, many people beyond me know much more what it means to live in such a system. We do not need to complete this at all, because that is where I share your view, Minister: We don't have too bad a system. If we don't talk about special cases now, we don't have too bad a system. But it's important: What's our goal? – One has as its goal the savings he wants to achieve by any combination; my goal, I have already mentioned it to you, is another. Not only do I have a goal to want to achieve equal access, equal performance for all – or is that a green goal and not my personal one – but there are other ideas in this area. For example, if Mrs. Lapp explains here that a single insurance structure or a cash register – no matter what you call it – is patient, I say to Mrs. Lapp, this has nothing to do with patient or insured persons at all! But one thing I already know, Mrs Lap, is that the self-administration, as she now exists, is something that is far from insured as anything. Watch the Internet and try to find out your insurance representatives in any local health insurance fund! You don't even have names and addresses inside! Just once you can reach the caretaker when you look at the Internet portal. But that means self-administration! This is not the self-management of the insured, but it is a self-management that manages itself! Yes, it is, but that has nothing to do with how we want a patient or insurrection agency. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now you can still believe that this is a system that has worked somehow so far. - Yes, but was it? Are you satisfied that it works somehow? You have to purchase that it is so and that there are these differences between Upper Austria and Vienna and no matter where – that is the case! –, or have Do you somewhere else still want to do something together and to improve it? – I have not noticed this in the debate. In fact, the Court of Auditors' report provides a film, a basis on which one can discuss and on which one should not produce and say: It's all right anyway! – One says this regarding Upper Austria and the other says this regarding Vienna. Well, good night, Austrian health system! if that is the answer of Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23078	The next speaker was Mrs Marek, Secretary of State. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23099	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Minister of Health! Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of Mr Gaßner's speech, I have now made a statement on Austria's advertising. After all the requirements of the Court of Auditors to the Austrian advertising have already been fulfilled and implemented or implemented, I think there is a great deal of positiveness here, but Mr Gaßner, in turn, has said what he has already said in the Committee. I have rejected this, I have told him quite specifically, but he has repeated it here. – Untrue is not true by repetition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] The fact is that there were twelve applications in the appointment of the managing director Dr. Oberascher, which were evaluated by the evaluation commission. The fact is that Mr. Dr. Oberascher was the only one who had fulfilled the required qualification, and thus the need for a hearing was not given. [[Abg. Oils: How happens to happen!]] And just so that you have done it – even if you know exactly that there is only one who has the qualifications and fulfils them – would, I think, be a question of cost efficiency, so this decision was well justified. Mr Gaßner is not here; I would ask you to tell him again, after the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23140	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23161	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make one more point on behalf of the Group of the European Comparing the financial situation of the two cash offices, because the issue of health and health care is very important to us, and we take it very seriously. I think the analysis of the causes of these different operating results is very important and these are very precise. Changing something sustainable here is important in order to ensure the health system for the future as well. Indeed, the Court of Auditors report has shown that there have been very serious interventions in the past – the Minister has also mentioned it – between 2000 and 2006, which have had a very serious impact on less revenue: Under cover of the Federal contributions to the health insurance of the unemployed, under cover of the weekly allowance, incomplete pre-tax rate, disadvantage in the financing of hospitals and so on. There are two thirds of the statutory minimum exemptions relating to non-ressort areas, and therefore, I believe, it is important in the future that the health insurance companies are compensated for such non-ressort benefits accordingly. Furthermore, the difference between urban and other areas should also be taken into account. These are different requirements for the health system. In the Committee's discussion, it has also been recognised that in the metropolitan area, the medical density is much higher, including the specialist density, which naturally causes other costs. It is important to stress that we support the efforts of our Minister of Health, who will no longer allow further restraints, and also measures and projects such as – he has mentioned – e-medicines, or the establishment and establishment of a cash fund that is very important to us. I think we all have to take on responsibility for financing and therefore also for maintaining the good health system in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23201	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. I would also like to speak for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23233	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Members of the Federal Government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors, I thank you and your staff very much and expressly for comparing the two regional health telephones, namely Upper Austria and Vienna. The report explicitly identifies and maintains – as it has just been mentioned here – that the legal measures are not the sole cause of the high deficits of the Vienna regional health insurance fund, as they also affect all other health insurance companies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] The Wiener Landeskrankenkasse has a minimum of €71 million for 2006 and the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse has an increase of €15 million, which is why this is to be questioned! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] If it is said here, Mr Oellinger, that the big city factor has not been taken into account, that is simply not true. The Court of Auditors has taken into account €140 million for the major city factor, which undoubtedly applies to the Federal Capital. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oils.]] Additional € 40 million for the age structure. Do you know what bothers me as a Upper Austrian? – Since the mid-1990s, cost reduction measures have been implemented in Upper Austria – so far! – not always to the delight of the insured, for example when it comes to the professional density, in accordance with the doctors, the responsible at national level and, of course, the local health insurance fund. [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, but this is a problem!]] That is why it is important to act here, because it is necessary to keep the finances of a health insurance fund in order. Therefore, we do not understand Upper Austrians that this Literary Drive will continue on the Vienna level. That's not all right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the Greens.]] Remember what Mr Bittner did to us committee members in committee. He said that he was actually not interested in everything, that was not the problem, that 20 million euros in the administrative sector were only Peanuts, he was not talking about these. - We're talking about it! But that's not the main reason. Two things can't exist: In addition to the €45 million emergency aid that the government has agreed on and that is also in order, there can be no additional tax money without structural reform measures. Today, Mr Vice-Chancellor has also clearly explained this in his budget speech. Second point: The compensation fund cannot be the cow that is fed in Upper Austria, Vorarlberg and Salzburg and milked in Vienna, Styria and Burgenland. We do not allow this in the future, we demand Upper Austria, Salzburger and Vorarlberger. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Prince.]] Money follows performance, ladies and gentlemen, and not vice versa! Upper Austria, Salzburg and Vorarlberg show how to do it, and this will have to be implemented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to express my express thanks to the President-in-Office for this report.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23313	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23334	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs State Secretary, Mr Gaßner von der SPÖ was already right when he put his finger on the issue of managing director re-order. Only: Both of you have not mentioned what the real point is on this issue. The fact that the hearing was blown off because none of the twelve other candidates had the qualification is one topic that is another: Six months after his re-order, the managing director, on his own request, left the Austrian advertising and received 47 000 €. And this is the issue that the Court of Auditors has rightly dealt with. But, as you have said, Mrs. State Secretary, and the new managing director, Mrs. Stolba: All these abuses – after all, there were 17 points of the The Court of Auditors has complained – it is said that in the meantime it has been abandoned. This will be crediblely assured; the follow-up check will show it. However, what is noticeable is the following: After the withdrawal of the national tourism organizations from the association in 2000, the budget fell from €42 million per year to €32 million per year, and Austria's advertising managed to compensate more than 17 million in 2006 for performance revenues. And there you really have to say: well managed, hat off! So positive and negative in this report. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, it is a shame – I now use the opportunity for the Secretary of State to be here – that, although you have been demanding a budget increase of €10 million for two years – because the 32 million from 2000 have never been increased; in these times, in times of crisis, this increase would not really be too much – unfortunately, only an increase of 4 million. You pay €22.5 million for the scrapping of old cars. This is nothing but money that flows into the import of new cars and thus as an economic promotion abroad, because there the new cars are produced. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – The 10 million for Austria's advertising, Mr. Colleague, would also flow abroad, but with the difference that this money would return to Austria in the form of paying guests, and that would be a much more sensible and sustainable measure.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23394	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23416	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' report deals with rehabilitation of the local health telephone. The need for rehabilitation measures has already been repeatedly pointed out. It was the years 2000 to 2006, in which the government of that time added €2.6 billion annually. For the Vienna cash register, it is also confirmed by economists that it could end with profits without these burdens. The financial viability of the funds is undoubtedly an urgent problem. The comparison made by the Court of Auditors between the Upper Austrian and the Vienna regional health funds is intended to provide information on savings. This comparison can be revealing in terms of cost increases, remedies or medications, but whether this can be seen in general is doubtful. I think that this is a little more cautious, as structures and frameworks of the individual cash registers are too different. The discussion, which is being held in this context and in some cases is now being distinguished between good and evil, does not lead us further to what we should consider in our discussions. The restructuring concept proposed by the Court of Auditors for the Vienna cash register is certainly a necessary step and can also have a role model for others. However, when it comes to saving, it will be crucial for the insured, where it is saved. There is no doubt that the demand to save in the administration is also popular. However, if the administrative burden is about 3 per cent, it can be seen that the large savings potential will not lie in it. Therefore The savings will be primarily to be sought from the contracting partners or the remedies and medications. In any event, the fact is that the contributors across Germany, in all the federal states, are equally responsible for social security contributions. Therefore, it is at least a question of justice that the same contributions also face the same benefits. Therefore, any rehabilitation discussion will also have to include this consideration.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23461	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. Fixed speaking time: also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23482	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into the Court of Auditors' report on Austria, a few words on the motion for a resolution, which has just been tabled by Mr Graf, Mr Mag. Stefan and Dr. Rosenkranz were introduced to abolish the e-voting for the high school elections at the next election. We all know why there is e-voting – it was decided not too long ago; in fact, in 2001 –: It should bring greater participation and more democracy. In 2001, following the wish of the ÖH leadership at that time, this law was passed with an amendment by a resolution - in the third reading also with the consent of the Greens - to this law. And if I remember correctly, there was an ÖVP-FPÖ government back then! [[Abg. Weinzinger: You can be failed!]] According to the Stenographic Protocol, Mr Graf, at the time, said that we are a pioneer and that the universities also want to show that they are doing something first. One would see the project as a democratic pioneer act. That was decided at the time. Mr Grosz spoke here today about the health insurance companies, about centralization. I do not want to repeat all of this now, but I just say that I know another statement from the head of state of Carinthia, who, when it came to centralization, said that he will not let the Viennaers determine what happens to the Carinthian health insurance companies. Perhaps there should be an internal vote in this respect. About Austria Advertising: Thank you for the report. I think the public sector is really a demonstration project of this state. It is responsible for applying for one of the most important sectors of activity. About 15.7 percent of GDP is through tourism and leisure. This area has delivered the second best result in the history of Austrian tourism last year with 126 million and is responsible for around 230 000 employees. Especially in the current crisis period, we see how important tourism is for Austria. Tourism has not yet heard that there are mass announcements there that people will be released, but we are actually looking for people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] The points you have raised are important. The years 2000 to 2006 were examined – at the time other managing directors were at the plant. ==References== Ms. Dr. Stolba is responsible for her work in November 2006. The criticisms which I do not want to mention individually, but which are justified, have been addressed by it, are eliminated. I think that it is also necessary for Austria's advertising, which, as has been said, is a demonstration project of this state for the application of tourism, to put it to the test over and over again. Weaknesses arise in every company, including in Austria advertising, and these weaknesses are eradicated. It is gratifying that these criticism points have always been taken seriously by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also by Austria's advertising, always taken up and implemented as soon as possible – what I really hope – or are they still at work. - Thank you. Unfortunately, I don't have any more speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23531	Mr Dr. Karlsböck is next spoken. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23552	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Mr Oellinger, I would like to ask you: We must define the objectives when we talk about health reforms. Today's discussion is followed again by the usual scheme of such a discussion: It is a health policy exercise that basically does nothing at all. In the current situation, I am not sure that only one of my previous speakers would have referred to the economic crisis. We have to deal with the largest economic crisis in the Second Republic. The bad luck for the health system is that it depends on wage income, on working conditions. Unemployment rates are rising, the health insurance system is becoming more and more weak. That is why the Court of Auditors' report, which, of course, was really done in good working order, is a historic 2006 document in which there was a kind of high-economy. We can't do that in any way on today's situation. Mr Minister, we have to say a very radical goodbye to social-Romantic ideas, to ideological pitfalls, and we must take action immediately, as my previous speakers have already suggested. A cash collection is to be implemented without discussing it. It is necessary to obtain a financing from a single source. There are also painful measures to be taken, such as reorientations – I do not want to say closures, but reorientations – of hospitals that are located in communities where they are simply no longer economically viable. Staff savings are the main argument, the killer argument, I would like to say, in this discussion. But when we look at these figures, we note that expenditure in this area does not account for more than 7 percent of total funding for this budget. That's an inappropriate measure. We can't compare economy with quality. This is also a cardinal error in this discussion. I would like to address this Court of Auditors report very briefly. In the mid-1990s, the Court of Auditors told the Austrian authorities that it was asking to carry out rationalisations, which were then carried out. Today this has been presented by the previous speakers and this is a great success. I've got a paper here that says "confidential." It is from 2003; You'll probably know. Mr. Minister, you can't help it, that was before your term of office. It is about oncological care in Upper Austria. To make it short, as the light unfortunately already shines: The conclusion of this story due to all the savings is that there are around 23 percent more patients there having late consequences for a mammary carcinoma. That is, because of all these structural measures they already come to the doctor with a late metastatic carcinoma. In the prostate carcinoma, this percentage is 30. The last sentence of this study is: “An additional model of explanation for the phenomenon of relatively low number of benefits could also be a hidden undersupply with appropriate facilities that make timely and community-related therapy difficult and thus lead to increased treatment interruptions.” That means people are already coming to the doctor sick, and they die earlier. I can't imagine anyone in this house wanting to have it. - I think you don't want to. That is why we have to avoid massive reductions in performance – that is my last sentence. The only concept that I see personally and that is what my group sees is that there must be mixed financing. This means that we are maintaining the current system, the Bismarck system, but through a clear financing through taxes, because otherwise we will no longer be able to maintain our health system.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23617	The next item is the speech by Mr Faul. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23638	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Obernosterer, you are of course right as a hoteler when you consider the overall situation of tourism. That's all right for me. I think we've really been through very well. I also see this from my personal experiences. But we talked about the Austrian advertising today. At the time, I had discussions with Minister Bartenstein. Mrs. State Secretary, your statements were so typical of Austria's advertising. For me, this is more and more about inner life, the cost of the interior. No one has talked about how powerful we are. No one has talked about where we should develop. No one has talked about what the future is for Austrian tourism. Is it the way it is, or should we not turn to other areas such as health tourism, recreation tourism, almentourism? I believe – and I say only as a synonym, Mrs State Secretary, for this system – that there is a lot of money in this system, but it is managed very near-chamber and very institutionally. My personal opinion is that an institution like Austria belongs advertising to the free market, because advertising simply demands the free market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23671	The next item is Mrs Schönpass. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23695	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Finally, I am also referring to the comparison of the health insurance funds – the Vienna and the Upper Austrian regional health insurance fund. When comparing the two yet very different territorial healthcare telephones, some particularities were not taken into account – for example, the higher supply density of practical and, above all, specialist doctors in Vienna naturally also caused higher costs. The Court of Auditors considers that measures could be taken to reorganise the precarious financial situation in three areas: first, savings in benefits, second, the introduction of self-maintenance and/or thirdly legislative measures to influence revenue and expenditure. – This view of the Court of Auditors can be shared or not, but the following, ladies and gentlemen, have been clearly worked out in the Court of Auditors’ report: The main cause of the deficits was legal measures from the year 2000. Without these measures adopted by the ÖVP/FPÖ government, for example, the Vienna Regional Health Fund would not have generated a deficit in 2002, but a surplus of € 156 million. Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian health system is still one of the best in the world. To keep it that way, we have to act. We from SPÖ do not stand in the way of meaningful solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23728	The next item is the speech by Mr Sacher. Fixed speaking time: also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23749	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Mrs. State Secretary! One last time in this debate, the topic of Austria's advertising. A lot has already been said about this. There was an interesting discussion about Austria's advertising in the Committee. I would like to point out that the Court of Auditors' public control is very important to us, but I have only noticed – even in the pursuit of today's discussion – that if one is concerned, if that falls into one's own place of business, one often sees something through a rosarote glasses. In our opinion, we should now look very closely – and that is what I say to my previous speakers from the ÖVP side – whether the required measures are actually implemented by the new management. I really expect a positive result from the Court of Auditors' follow-up review. Austria's advertising is very, very important to us, so you should - and I say that again - not see it through the pink glasses. There, where it is appropriate, it is also to be really encouraged, for the benefit of tourism and advertising for tourism in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23780	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Musiol. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23801	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Even if it is due to Your presence now would be seductive to talk about family policy and its problems – this is not in line with the Court of Auditors' report, which we will do tomorrow. But what I still have to say is the request of the colleagues from the FPÖ for e-voting. We will agree to this request, even if we do not believe in the tendency of the explanatory statement to reject e-voting in principle. We already believe that in times of modern technology and innovation you can also think about and have to think about what modern means you use in elections, but of course this should never go at the expense of electoral principles. However, since the forthcoming ÖH elections do not ensure that it does not go at the expense of our principles of direct, personal – and much more – elections, we will agree to ask the Minister not to make use of e-voting in the ÖH elections. Federal Minister Hahn, holding on to e-voting, has a sense of democracy policy. He has raised students as an experimental rabbit in a choice by using a technically unmatured system and a company that is duly familiar with e-voting those people who have received an award in an award procedure, which has been cancelled and where the award has been awarded differently. There are numerous evaluation reports from various countries that say that the technology used by Scytl is not safe and cannot precisely meet these democratic requirements. And there is also a lack of the data protection basis on which a safe and above all a legitimate implementation of e-voting can take place. International reports are available almost daily. Most recently, the Supreme Administrative Court in Finland abolished the attempt of e-voting in a regional election. The German Federal Constitutional Court has also already adopted such decisions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Green Alternatives Students together with us Greens have been protesting against e-voting for weeks and against the use of e-voting. We will continue to review and take all legal steps to prevent the use of e-voting. Mrs. National Council President Prammer, you, too, as the media can be seen, have spoken against e-voting and have said that you also thought this to be very worrying. . The more exciting this vote will be. I'm also very excited about how you're going to behave there. Finally, I would like to make another appeal to the Federal Minister for Science: Cancel e-voting for the 2009 ÖH elections, because just as you want to do it now, prevent any serious discussion about the use of e-voting in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23862	Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23884	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to thank you very much for the fact that the work of the Court of Auditors has fallen on very positive ground. If Mrs. Abge- Mr Lap mentioned that the Court of Auditors was doing a little bit further, showing that his work was being taken seriously. The debate in the Court of Auditors and today's debate here in plenary shows that we are dealing with the Court of Auditors' recommendations. There are a total of six reports on today's agenda. As the report has been discussed in depth with the comparison of the Upper Austrian and the Vienna Regional Health Fund, and some comments have been made in this respect, which are not included in the Court of Auditors' report, I would like to say something in detail here. I would like to point out that, in 2006, the Court of Auditors, in particular, took the different operating results of the Vienna regional health fund and the Upper Austrian regional health fund and the differences in the conduct of these two cash offices to compare them, because the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse – that is already mentioned by the Minister – had a plus of €15 million in 2002, but the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, however, had a minimum of €71 million. I would like to point out that the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse has always had a worse result by 1995 than the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. As of 1996, this has turned. I would also like to point out that the Vienna regional health insurance fund has already had a higher administrative burden since 1998. By 1998 it was reversed, as the administrative burden in Upper Austria was higher. There was therefore a reason to look closer to these two cash registers and even to highlight the structure of how the cash registers are designed, how the delivery of the individual cash registers looks and what effects or fields of action are involved in the event. In Vienna it was such that the insurance of the population of Vienna was no longer guaranteed as early as 2006. Loans could only be covered by the addition of additional loans, on 363 days a year. It is true that the net operating result in Vienna has been negative since 1999, and the net assets of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse also from 2001 onwards. Since 2007, the negative clean assets have amounted to € 530 million. Federal Minister Stöger has just carried out, and in 2008 the negative net worth of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse already amounts to € 650 million. The interest rate burden is therefore becoming a further burden on the insured. In 2008 it has already amounted to more than €16.9 million at the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse alone. There have been legal measures in this area which the Court of Auditors has also implemented, in particular by mentioning those measures where legislative action could be taken or other measures could be taken, without increasing additional labour costs. There have been, as it should be, loads and redundancies that have been made by the cash registers in different ways. At the same time, however, there have also been causes for these differences caused by the cash register itself. For example, measures have not been put in place in the Vienna regional health fund, and it has not used synergies, has not implemented cost optimizations, nor has it raised savings potential. From 1993 to 2006 the Vienna Gebietskrankenkasse has the added effort, which I would like to mention, in comparison with the Upper Austrian regional health insurance fund. kenkasse 260 million €. It was the so-called big city factor of € 140 million, because even in 1993 the difference amounted to just € 140 million. It was true, however, that, as a result, the cost increases for medical assistance in Vienna were higher by 17.4 percent. Costs rose by 54.9% over this period. The cost of cures has also increased by 26.7 percent. Overall, they rose by 148.4 percent. That is to say, the increase in the cost of medical aid was 54.9%, with cures 148.4. In this area, if the insured structure is to be removed from this €140 million, then €80 million will remain, where it is evident that the Vienna regional health fund has not put in place the measures it could have just put in place, as the comparison with the Upper Austrian regional health fund has shown. Mrs Schönpass, we have explained that in the field of medical assistance, where more than € 106 per person entitled has been spent, including higher tariffs, lack of expenditure limitation, frequency differences, missing fixations, or even, and that is crucial, a different medical density is the cause. However, in Vienna there are no more practical doctors, but by 5 percent less practical doctors, but for example by 250 percent more radiologists. We have identified measures to be taken: Source analysis, collective improvement in the packaging, optimization of the establishment plan of the contractual doctors. We have not, however, proposed that self retention should be increased as such. We have only pointed out that the main association of social security institutions would have been obliged to adopt an annual regulation establishing whether and to what extent a share of costs should be fixed or paid in the event of the use of medical assistance. The Court of Auditors only pointed out in its report that health insurance providers should be given guidelines on the conditions under which further borrowings should be carried out or self-retained. I do not want to deal with the cures more closely and I therefore conclude: If the Federal Minister argues that measures are already provided for in the budget accompanying law, I believe that these measures will certainly not be sufficient to clean up the funds and secure the supply. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Scheibner.]] It will be necessary for further cost reduction measures to be taken in the area of the cash register itself. Cost optimizations must be carried out in the field of medical care. Measures should be taken to dampen the expenditure on medicinal products. Only if these measures did not take place would the legislator also call for measures to be taken in this area to ensure the stock of the cash and the provision. It will be necessary, in this area in particular, to address the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations very well. If you look at the preview of all the local health telephones alone for 2011, you will see that the exit will be more than €530 million from the current perspective alone in 2011. Thank you for your attention. I hope that my remarks were not too long – and I am looking forward to further cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23984	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-17 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues, on the introduction of e-voting at the next high school election. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, fellow Members, to vote in favour, to vote against, to vote against, to vote against, to vote against, to vote against, to vote against. I now ask Mrs Schreiber to start by calling Mrs Hagenhofer for a name.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24064	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24099	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote as follows: Members cast: 169, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 67, No votes: 102. The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Graf, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Dolnschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hagen, Haider, Haimbuchner, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek, Kurzmann; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, Pirklhuber; Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Weinzinger Lutz, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Souschill; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, cup, binder-maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Eßl; Faul, Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Grossmann; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Sonnberger, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Weninger Hannes, Wöinger, Worm. [[20:32:50]] 6. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 516/A by Mr Mag. Heribert Donnerbauer, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (165 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24302	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stefan. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24329	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This is an amendment to Article 87a of the Federal Constitution, which seeks to amend the provisions on law enforcement. Legal officers are persons or federal servants who have so far been able to act in civil matters in the transactions of the jurisdiction of the first instance. That's a success story. They are already responsible in company book cases, basic book cases, insolvency cases and in extradition proceedings. It must be imagined that 81 percent of the decisions of lawyers are taken in the District Court. Now, the extension of the activities of the lawyers to criminal matters is to be decided. This too is an old liberal requirement to relieve the judges. In our view, however, it would have been necessary to include a restriction in the Constitution: that the legal guardians in criminal matters are only in suborder. ad hoc activities, but not in the case law itself. Although this is the case in the explanatory notes, it states that it is thought that the lawyers are particularly involved in cost issues. But that is by no means binding. It would therefore be imaginable that, at a simple and legal level, the competences of the lawyers will be expanded and are no longer limited to what is stated in the explanatory remarks. That was our criticism point and our request to the government groups to make it easier for us to vote. That was not the case, which is why we voted against in committee. We will also vote against this legislative proposal at second reading today. However, since we are in principle in favour of this proposal, in principle, we are in favour of increasing the scope of law enforcement and, in principle, it is right that justice should be relieved, we will vote in third reading.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24378	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24399	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that we are now implementing an old liberal demand – as my previous speaker has already said – here together, even if so to speak, in stages. Once again, other political groups must ensure the constitutional majority so that this demand can be accepted by the Freedom Party at third reading. But be it, it's nice to do this together today. There was something else in the committee. It has already been explained where the concerns lie. As has been said, concerns should be expressed. I do not wish to appreciate this at all, but still believe that these concerns may be justified in principle, but are unwarranted in the matter, because that, on which the concerns are addressed, actually excludes the federal constitution as well. It is not only the text of this application but also the text of Article 87a in the previous version, which states that the Federal Act “can transfer the supply of individual types of transactions of the jurisdiction of first instance in civil matters to specially trained non-judicial federal officials”. Even now secured in the federal constitution according to Abs. 2 of this Article is that ‘the judge responsible for the distribution of business may, however, at any time reserve or draw upon such transactions’. The fact that the lawyers continue to be bound by the instructions of this judge, who is still in charge of the principle, is also already enshrined in the federal constitution. Therefore, I believe, it is sufficient to ensure that even if we extend the jurisdictions of civil law lawyers to criminal matters, nothing can happen in the sense of those concerns which have been articulated before, because always overriding a judge is responsible for the control, can attract the matter and can also issue instructions. I therefore believe that this is a good solution. Perhaps some additional areas, for example, in order to be able to address the last concerns of the Freedom Party, if you agree at third reading. . For example, it is about charging decisions, decisions on fines, postponement of payments, Council approvals and so on, and so on; that is to say, subordinate transactions. In order to ensure efficiency in the enforcement of criminal law that judges of non-judicial activities are relieved as much as possible, I believe it is an important step in the federal constitution to create the prerequisites. We will, of course, have to discuss, in the Committee on Justice and here in plenary, the simple and legal implementation of these criminal law officers, which areas we would like to see and use for. All in all, I believe, despite the difficulties in a time of crisis, which our Minister of Finance has clearly put on the table today, despite the economic and financial difficulties for the budget, it has also succeeded in ensuring the judicial budget with about €1.2 billion for 2009 and the same amount for 2010; especially in the context of greater flexibility, with the possibility of re-implementing this budget freely within the department. We will have to discuss such measures as these, for which we are now creating the prerequisites in the federal constitution, in the coming weeks and months, in order to simply create greater efficiency and really to free judges for judicial activities. Then, I think, we will do well with these framework conditions, which are also given to us from outside, because of the economic situation, so that in the judicial system, we will also be able to do well in the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24447	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24469	Mr President. High house! Mr Donnerbauer, I have now listened closely: My skepticism is not cleared. First of all, it is right – and it makes sense – to say well, well, we will also entrust a lawyer with the cost regulations in the future. This could, in fact – this is a question of the demarcation of state powers – even in the existing legal situation. It is certainly so cleaner, but one could also regulate this in the existing legal situation. – Cost-Determining issues, this is a matter of how to shape it. In any event, the fact is that with the restriction that the term ‘in civil law matters’ is deleted, the legal guardian can be used throughout the field of justice. He remains a legal dogmatic body for the administration of justice – criminal justice in the case even. Now I am telling you that if you were actually to restrict this – I have heard it, on cost terms, you say on it “punishments on fines”, it will become more critical – but Mr Donnerbauer now has something else to do. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer talks to Abg. Prince.]] Mr Donnerbauer! - Yes, I didn't have the impression. [[Call the ÖVP: Attention, please!]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: I'm listening!]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: We can do that!]] – I know, the Napoleon was also able to do that, you just grew a little bigger than the Napoleon. That's why I'm asking you to just listen. So if you include the orders on fines – and this is not contained in the application – then this is the first extension. And my fear, the fear of my group is as follows: On the criminal law side, it was first introduced as a replacement in criminal proceedings before District Courts as an indictment of the district attorney. Now, as an organ of case law, we are introducing the lawyer. Who guarantees us that not the next step is that, so to speak, at the level of the District Courts, the lawyer will not sit under the supervision of a judge on the bench and the non-legally trained district attorney represents the accusation, so to speak, that is, a lawyer sitting above, who falls under the sentence, of course, in the name of a judge who is not there at all? You understand, this is our scepticism, and this scepticism is not eliminated by this application text. We do not believe that in an area where the personal rights of an accused are so deeply involved as in criminal law enforcement, the judge should be replaced by someone else. This is the trend towards the court of office, as the Federal Republic of Germany has, but this is not what we imagine, especially since it also raises the problem of the “trial” concept after the ECHR. In other words, I do not believe that a situation will be clarified, but it will continue to be at the expense of the accused, at the expense of our traditional division of powers, at the expense of the rights of the accused and at the expense of the quality of criminal justice to date. We do not want to take this course – quite openly, this is a legal decision – but we want the judgments and the relevant meritorical decisions to continue to be taken at the level of criminal justice in the district courts.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24551	Next item is the report by Mr Wittmann. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24572	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Stadler, I can actually join this. We too are not necessarily friends of some of the points mentioned by you, that is, we also reject it in order to state precisely that judgments or judicial decisions are to be made by non-judicial staff. That is not the intention of this law either. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Not yet!]] We only have to complement the Constitution to allow other activities which are not legitimate to be carried out by other bodies, namely by law enforcement, as has been the case in civil law enforcement. Nor do I think that the principle is that the case law is exclusively a judicial matter; that would be wrong. But the possibility of introducing law enforcement officers into criminal justice is, I believe, a reasonable extension of the spectrum, but not into the Constitution, because I believe that the legislation on materials must be. This is a typical case of material legislation, because otherwise, in the Constitution, you have parts of material laws, because you could then extend any constitutional provision by declarations. I thought that was wrong, and this is also not provided for in our Constitution. Therefore, the removal of the words “in civil matters” is sufficient to enable it and to ensure in the material legislation that this does not happen. I can already imagine that there is a lot of things you can do. A decision on fees, if it is not included in the main proceedings, does not necessarily involve a criminal. Or council agreements and whatever can be made by such lawyers. I believe that it is reasonable to extend this in this direction and not to take the task of material legislation into the Constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24612	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24633	Ladies and gentlemen! The lawyers have proved themselves to be a reliable partner and part of the judicial system in many years. It has already been said by Mr Stefan, you hardly believe it: In civil law, 80 percent of judicial decisions are taken. That is why I also believe, Mr Stadler, that, although civil law lawyers are now allowed to take legal action, the essential decisions of judges are still being made. I therefore assume that this principle is also respected in criminal law. I admit, the opposition, of course, gives the two-thirds majority up to a certain degree the opportunity to intervene in a simple and legal way. That is why I hope that the demands will be kept. We have also been promised that the opposition will be included and that, in fact, only the lawyers will be included in determining the costs and other smaller points. That is to say, the opposition's approval today is of course also an advance of confidence that these commitments will be observed afterwards and that other measures will not be implemented back then. You have to say that. I see the problem somewhere else: We will discuss tomorrow that the judicial system has 169 planning posts less, and I wonder where the courts in the area of law enforcement are to come from. – Certainly not from civil law, because now, according to estimates, we already have 100 too few. The burden is supposed to be 120 percent, and we know that right-wing officers are used in sensitive areas as in maintenance proceedings. I certainly can't imagine taking legal officers off to use them in criminal law. That is, who seriously means that – and we mean it seriously; we believe it makes sense to use law enforcement in the area of criminal law – he must also tell us where the planning sites come from. That's important. The Federal Government remains guilty so far, and we will observe the whole thing very closely. Last point: I believe that we are not yet at the end of the discussion, but we should also have the courage to discuss whether we cannot use lawyers in the field of prosecutors. For example, the district lawyers who already exist could be replaced by lawyers. In other areas as well: Not the decision on the division, but the monitoring of the divisional measures among the lawyers would be absolutely useful, because we currently have the following situation: The prosecutors are responsible for the implementation of the division. There are too few prosecutors, so less and less disversion measures are offered. That is to say, extrajudicial compensation and non-profit payments are stagnating because the prosecutors do not have the time to apply these important funds. It would make sense to relieve the prosecutors and to use the lawyers so that these important means, such as the division, can also be used and used more effectively. In this sense: We agree with the Greens. This is a great advance of confidence for the Federal Government. We will soon see whether he is justified and whether the promised fields of action of the public prosecutors in criminal law actually look as discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24688	The next item is the speech by Mr Jarolim. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24709	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler, we have so far had the rule in Article 87a of the Federal Constitutional Act, from which in fact the cause or legal basis for the administration of justice in civil matters has been derived, without ever having had any problem. And, of course, it is quite clear that the case law as such is one thing and that the aid possibilities and aids are something else. And if we speak here of types, of transactions of jurisdiction, that does not mean, of course, that the most original core area, namely the case law as such, is that. That is quite clear in constitutional terms. I would therefore ask to leave the church really in the village and not talk about the possibility of this provision opening up something that can be applied throughout the civil jurisdiction – and there are very large rights available there. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a difference! That's a huge difference!]] Unfortunately, something else has happened in the government of Schüssel I under Minister Böhmdorfer. We all knew that the criminal procedure system, as we have now changed it, is very difficult to implement with the personnel equipment as it is currently available. It's just as it is. It is very difficult, but we should also talk about the extent to which it is possible to use these lawyers in the field of prosecutors, because they are certainly better trained from the qualifications than the current district lawyers. We will certainly discuss tomorrow in the field of justice that there are major challenges to adapt the current situation to the need to deal with human resources. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24744	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. Fixed speaking time: also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24781	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Stadler, it is true, I believe, that everyone – and this for a long time – should be freed from administrative activities. I think that this has already been done in civil law proceedings – the first speaker on this item on the agenda – has actually been working for years. I have already wondered – including in the committee – that we had the discussion about whether this is not regulated in the Constitution. I do not want to repeat what Mr Wittmann has done. I think on the one hand, one has always agreed that it has failed to regulate all of this in the matter laws. That's where we all agreed! I do not think anyone who was there – and I can remember any discussion on this legislative initiative in preparation and committee – has any idea that the case law is going elsewhere than to the judges. As an administrative simplification, as a discharge for the judges, to increase efficiency, this is quite simply a real step. I'm sure we'll also decide on the matter law together. That is why, I believe, this is the right way.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24812	Mr President, Mr Ostermayer, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, spoke. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24833	Mr President. Dear High House! I thank you for this constructive discussion. We are talking about an example here, about a small area, which is also a subject that has been discussed many times over the day, namely the question of how to use the resources of the state as efficiently as possible. It was in fact undisputed that the past activity and the previous use of legal practitioners worked very well. It is now about – and the Ministry of Justice has stressed this – that judges and prosecutors are, so to speak, relieved of auxiliary activities or activities which are not a matter of case law. Mr Donnerbauer has already pointed out that Article 87a B-VG currently provides that the lawyers are bound to the instructions. A form where the lawyer would decide almost upon the guidance of the judge would be the principle of immediacy of the kind. 6 against the ECHR. So this too is so to speak excluded. It was and is also the decision of the Ministry of Justice to use the lawyers not in the first instance case law in the future, but in areas where it is about discharge, cost statements et cetera. I think that's a sensible way. It is a small step towards increasing the efficiency of resource use. And I therefore believe that it is a sensible decision to make this change. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24872	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 165 of the supplements. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also accepted by the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. [[20:57:44]] 7. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 157/A(E) by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues on the recognition of religious communities (166 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24940	Now we're on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stefan. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24967	Ladies and gentlemen! I submit the following request in advance: [[Quoted print version removed]] We had already made an almost equal request. The government groups then submitted an amended request, and it was decided by it. However, in this government proposal or in this government decision, it is only said that “with the religious communities there is a dialogue” that “to develop a common procedure, how their institutions, souls and religious servants in their activities can promote the objectives and values of the Austrian federal constitution in general and civil education in particular in the context of the respective teaching”. This is already very sluggish and very weak formulated and therefore very disappointing. There, even the recognition law for religious communities is even more tangible, where it says it needs at least a positive basic attitude towards society and state. I am reminded of the Federal Government's attitude at the German Islam Conference, which was introduced, where it is all about having a dialogue. There it is said that it is about discussing how “the German constitutional and legal system developed for centuries can contribute to the development of modern German Islam”. - So a pure dialogue form. CSU Secretary-General Söder rightly said: “I am against the fact that we have a false dialogue” – in this case in Germany – “. If you want to live here permanently, you have to confess to our values. If you don’t confess to it, you don’t have a future here.” – And that’s what it’s all about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: The former Secretary General!]] I am very grateful that you have pointed out this: the former Secretary-General. [[Abg. Grosz: The current European Minister of State of Bavaria!]] That doesn't change the statement – but I'm glad for you that you've found it now. [[Abg. Grosz: Enjoy!]] The Central Council of the Ex-Muslims has also clearly called for this... [[Abg. Grosz: Ex-Central Council!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The Central Council of the Ex-Muslims, Mr. Co., has called for the resolution of the Islam Conference because it has found that such a form of dialogue contributes to the Muslimisation of society and in fact leads exactly to what these people have fled from and where they eventually wanted to escape these Islamic repressions. Therefore, we must ensure that the basic order of our society is not undermined under the guise of religious freedom. This is about the animal torture in the shock of refusing blood transfusions for caregivers about the forcedness, rejection of the separation of church and state, forced circumcision, oppression and violence against women and the application of Sharia and the preference of Sharia to our legal order and even the representation of these ideas in textbooks. That's what it's all about. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can only ask you to recognize this delicate situation in which our society is located. To talk about dialogue with the cowardice, instead of taking a position, will not be successful. Only the clear statement that legal recognition as a religious community depends on the absolute recognition of our social principles would be an effective signal. And such a signal is more than necessary in view of the completely out of the row!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25076	The request just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25137	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25158	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think it is not surprising that the FPÖ is always arguing in the same direction and taking advantage of all the opportunities, even with requests for topics you love to discuss here. In my opinion, your request is unnecessary insofar as the confession to the Austrian legal order as such is given in the State Basic Law 1867, where churches and religious communities are actually bound by state laws. Article 15 of the Basic Law states that every legally recognized church or religious community has the right to common public religious practice and independent regulation of internal affairs, but is nevertheless subject to general state laws. As a result, the appeal to religious freedom cannot be used to disregard legal provisions. Furthermore, in the Confession Community Act, the prerequisite for the recognition of religious communities is their positive basic attitude towards society and state. But that already meets the essential demands, and there is no need for any further debate from you. Rather, because the issue has just been brought in by you and we consider it to be a serious one, we have tabled an amendment whose content you know about, which has also been discussed in detail in committee, and I believe that this amendment is actually a correct reference to normality, with which to deal with and discuss this very difficult question. I hope that you will generally take note of this, and I am convinced that this amendment will also be approved here today – and not Your request, which we consider to be absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25200	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. Also 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25222	Mr Donabauer! One should have simply rejected the proposal in the Committee. Today we have a motion for a resolution which is almost identical. This time, he is not only directed against Islam and Judaism but against the Witnesses of Jehovah, and we should reject it as a whole. Now you will have to confess color. The Federal Constitution in Article 15 of the Basic Law only requires churches and religious communities to comply with the framework of the laws. And not even those who are not recognized are forbidden. They may also operate in the domestic field, provided that they are not unlawful or infringing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our religious right. Now we read the FPÖ's request for this. The colleague Stefan comes out of here and speaks of courage, but does not have the mumm to say who he really means. I quote: “Everybody in Austria” – every, not Islam and Judaism! – “acknowledged religious community must confess itself to our constitution and to our laws and to the separation of church and state.” It's white nonsense! No religious community must enter into the creed that it confesses itself to the separation of church and state! This is a principle in the form that the state undertakes to separate church and state. This is a principle of self-determination of the state, not the churches. That's a complete misevaluation. Not the churches and religious communities are obliged to give a creed to separate state and church, but the state is obliged to do so. No religious community must confess itself in its creed to the respective constitution and to the respective laws of a country. That is therefore not true at all, that is white nonsense and is clearly contrary to Article 15 of the Basic Law of 1867. But it's gonna be much thicker. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Paranoic!]] – I am not a paranoic! I'm just showing you what you're writing for a fool! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it will be much thicker. That's the harmless part. As far as you could say, well, you didn't understand the Constitution. But this goes on – I quote: “For example, compulsion, the suppression of and violence against women are not covered in our rule of law by ‘religion’, for example, as well as by animal torture.” First of all, violence against women is equated with animal torture. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Please go!]] If you treat such a sensitive text, you should better consider what you write in. Negotiating violence against women at the level of animal torture is a truly deplorable equation. But, please, you can explain this with some intellectual effort. Only: What's that supposed to mean? There is not a single religion of forcedness and circumcision. This is a cultural matter, but not a religious matter – with one exception: There is a compulsion, namely, with boys in Judaism. Do you want to prevent Judaism from making circumcisions in the future? Then write it in! Then you have the mumm that my colleague Stefan told you. He said he was brave like you, you have to have the mumm. Then you have the mumm and say: We want to settle with the cultus community, we are against the compulsions of Jews. – Otherwise, they do not exist in religion at all. They don't exist. If you are attacking such a topic, you should inform yourself before. To equate the suppression of violence against women with animal torture is perfide. But what kind of animal torture does he mean? Mr. Stefan went out and said that he meant chess. So what shafts now? The chess of the Catholics? – There is no such thing as that. The shafts of the Protestants? – There is no such thing as that. But in the application, above is the talk of every religious community. The chess is only taken over by Muslims, i.e. in Islam and Judaism, namely by Islam from Judaism. So do you want to forbid the Jews in the future to be ashamed of them? Say it! You can talk about everything. There are factions that say that animal welfare is so high that it is forbidden to Jews. But don't say we're the brave heroes of the rights of the animals – and then you don't have the mumm to say you want to ban the Jews in the future. Have the courage to do so! Come out and tell us if you want to forbid the Jews in the future! Mr Cap, I'm just saying: These applications by the FPÖ, especially when they focus on religion, are usually so ball-horned, such as technical incompetence and so dangerous that you have to look at exactly what you decide to do. I only advise you to be more careful in such decisions in the future. This request is basically embarrassing. He's embarrassing with a word. If you want Muslims and Jews to behave differently, please write it in. I am convinced that then the coalition parties would not have been inclined to deal with the request differently than with a rejection. Do I cheat, Mr. Wittmann? But that's exactly what it means here. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann:... not decided!]] No, I know you then decided on an amendment. But it would have been more reasonable to simply reject it. But today a motion for a resolution has been tabled, which has the whole substance again, and is now speaking out against Jehovah’s Witnesses in several passages and additional passages. As a Catholic, I can stand as Jehovah’s Witnesses, as I wish, but as a Member of this country, who confesses to the constitution of this country, which has been in force in these points since 1867, which is said to be one of the great achievements of the 1848 revolution, which has almost annihilationary character among the liberals, I must say: If I take all of this on a scale, then this request for a state like the Republic of Austria is a single blamage and therefore reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25327	Now comes Mrs Mag. Grossmann speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25348	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler, you referred to the explanatory statement in detail here, only: This will not be decided. We are also very clearly dissociating from this argument. As a general conclusion, I would like to point out that religion is private and that a mixture of religion and politics must be strictly rejected. It's never gone well before. Too painful experiences in Europe and observations around the world have taught us this. And yet, my colleague, religious communities – and I believe that you will be right – also have a social role in their sphere of activity, and their members have a key role to play in answering the issues of meaning, in education, in the rules of conduct for their members, and of course the state should have only very limited influence on them. This does not apply, however, if our legal order is violated, for example by rituals such as forced ewes, genital mutilations, inadmissible liberties and – I would also like to mention this in the listing, without risking any equation here – also animal torture. Then, of course, the state has to intervene, and that happens. This is a matter of course, even if such cases occur in recognized religious communities. Recognition alone is not yet a guarantee that there is no abuse within a religious community. As a result, all religious communities are called upon to ensure, in their ranks, that the values of our constitution are naturally respected and, more importantly, actively promoted. In this direction, too, our resolution, namely to call on the government to enter into a dialogue with the religious communities, with all of them, so that they, with their organs, with the pastoral caregivers or whatever they call themselves, can best promote the values of the Austrian federal constitution. That they must stick to it is, I think, clear, but this is about the active promotion of values such as democracy, gender equality and much more where we need to strengthen religious communities as partners. I This is more useful than precepts and provocations that ultimately only endanger social peace.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25394	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25415	Ladies and gentlemen! We shall reject both of these requests, as we have already done in the Constitutional Committee, for two reasons: One concerns the resolutions themselves, the other the reasons. I shall stop at the resolutions. In our opinion, the FPÖ's request is covered by the legal situation, for it is already the case that in recognition procedures, for example, religious doctrine, their service, their constitution may not contain anything unlawful or legal infringing. Article 9(2) of the ECHR shall also apply. So here we see no reason for a need for action. The request of the government parties for dialogue with religious communities is an exciting story, because we assume that democratically responsible governments are taking up this dialogue with all the forces in a country – not only with religious communities, but with all NGOs, civil society, with associations, with institutions. For example, if you look at the debate on the right to stay, you cannot say that you have started this dialogue, quite the contrary: You have not heard of all the reservations that have come from the institutions active in this area. Dialogue means something else. Dialogue means listening, listening, sharing arguments. In this sense, we do not understand why religious communities are being reduced here, nor do we understand why the political groups here believe that they must ask their government to engage in this dialogue, because we assume that the governments themselves should come to conduct these dialogues if they see the need. On the grounds – and I am unfortunately against you, Mrs Grossmann: Both reasons are far-reaching, because both reasons mean, even if this is only very hidden, a religious community, namely Islam, and leave all other religious communities out. You do that, you have to keep it to your advantage, in a different way, but you still refer very specifically here to areas of Islamic faith. Of course, the ground of fundamental and freedom rights is important, and we are also standing on this, but I wonder if you are making distinctions between the religions, between the religious communities in Austria. For example, if you are thinking of the unscrupulous discussion about the appointment of the designated and then withdrawn consecration bishop of Linz, Gerhard Maria Wagner, then you have to ask: How do you behave here with regard to the statements which were also sharp at the border or are also opposed to fundamental and freedom rights? With controversial theories, such as the healing of homosexuals, to supposedly satanistic Harry Potter books and to Hurricane Katrina as punishment of God, Wagner has already caused head tremors before his vocation to the consecration bishop. Is that on the ground of fundamental and freedom rights, in your opinion? And I'm also wondering, How would the government react if an order had been made? Would you have taken a veto here? – This question will probably remain unanswered.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25469	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Sonnberger. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25491	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! First of all, Mr Stadler. I think he put it to the point of what it's all about: The liberals have tabled a request which, in my opinion, is not very well-founded. They actually want to say something else, but they're a little too cowardly about it. And that is actually what is to be refused. Those who deal with it a little bit know very well that in Article 15 of the Basic Law of the State and § 11 of the Confession Law there are in fact clear rules and the freedom of religion as an individual fundamental right of every individual in Article 14 of the Basic Law of the State, in Article 63 of the Treaty of St. Germain in 1919 and in Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights is also very clearly secured. It is also made clear in the State Treaty of St. Germain, for example, that the exercise must not be incompatible with public order or with good practices. I believe that this matter is clearly settled. And the “obedience to laizism”: What do you mean by that? In fact, there is no longer this term, which has been transferred from the French legal system, and those who deal with the doctrine a little bit with it know that different interpretations are taking place here at present. On the one hand, it is said that separation or cooperation is the model of how to interpret this term, i.e. Swammy, content weak, but still a bit provocative. I think that is too little, and that is why we have tabled an overall amendment, but I do not want to have anything to do with the request of the liberals at all. It is really quite provocative and weak in content.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25528	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25549	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! From Stadler to Sonnberger, you all missed the subject, no question at all. [[Objection to ÖVP and BZÖ.]] You know exactly what it's all about. You know very well that for years we have had a migration of Muslims in Austria to an extent of hundreds of thousands and that the population does not want it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then write it in!]] The population not only does not want this, but the population expects a protection from their Parliament! And of course you want to refuse this protection. And you blame us for cowardice!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Why don't you write it in?]] Let's go back a little bit: Islam Law, Reichsgesetzblatt 159 from 1912. For all those who don't remember history so much: The Austro-Hungarian army is occupating Bosnia – not according to the will of the population. This law of 1912 was adopted in 1988 by the Federal Law of 164. Ladies and gentlemen, that's why we have the Islamic Law. But we have something quite different, and that's much more significant: Here in this house is a relatively small group that supports Islamic immigration out of full heart and deep faith. There is a much larger group sitting here, who believes that they should support it, because they are just good people, as they believe, but are not convinced in the heart of their hearts. And here is an even bigger group, who know exactly that this is the wrong way, but don't trust to say it. And here is a group that is now the largest opposition party in this House, who know exactly that this is wrong and that something is happening here, which our population does not want to do at 90 percent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then write it in, please!]] That is why our fellow citizens, 90 percent of our fellow citizens, expect this house to be more or less committed by at least the immigrants to behave according to our laws, according to our customs, according to our way of living together. We should come there instead of having any dialogue and any discussion with the Lord Stadler, who is there once and for a while and once says this and once that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then why is there “every religion ”?]] We want to protect our people from secretly becoming this our homeland a Muslim state. We want to receive this home for our successors, for our descendants, as part of the Christian evening country!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25650	Mrs Lueger is now speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25671	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The modern rule of law is based on fundamental and freedom rights and should and should influence only very limited aspects of human life, especially the field of sense-making. It is precisely the task of religious communities and has central importance for them to deal with this question of meaning. I am not of the opinion of Mr Stadler here, because Article 15 of the Basic Law very likely states the distinction between legally recognized churches and non-recognisable religious communities and provides for a commitment to the state order. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No! Read Literature! You don't know yourself, really!]] Unrecognised religious communities can also gain a legal personality at the same time, and there is also a need for a positive basic attitude towards the state. A very short time ago with Mr Sonnberger and with regard to laizism, which was mentioned in both applications which were submitted. There is no longer this very harsh concept in the definition in training or in research, which is no longer available. At that time, the harsh concept meant not a strict separation between the Church and the State, but a push back into the private life of the people. This seems quite different in a discussion on the subject of church law, because there is a distinction between the separation of state and church, namely in separation on the one hand, that is the French model, and in cooperation on the other, that is the model we have in Austria. Therefore, we believe - and therefore we have put this request in committee - that we enter into a dialogue with the religious communities in order to develop a common procedure, such as their institutions, soul caregivers and religious servants, in their activities and in their respective teachings, can promote the objectives and values of the Austrian federal constitution in general and civil education in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25711	Mr Petzner has now come to speak. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25732	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler has already quite rightly referred to this request by the FPÖ as simply embarrassing, because he is a smooth issue error in content. You, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, are quite different. The intention behind this request goes in a completely different direction. It may be correct and correct in principle, I agree with you, only the form, as it is put into a request, is the wrong one. What the colleague Weinzinger had previously given of himself was a revelation. This concerns questions such as integration, where the question of the law on religious education is concerned, for example, the question of the implementation of the asylum law or the question of citizenship law and its implementation. That's what you're talking about, and that's the intention that's behind it. To that end, this request must also be rejected with reference to Article 15 of the basic law, because I tell you that it is simply unconstitutional and would be repealed by the Constitutional Court immediately. That is the point on this matter. This is an up-to-date case because we are at the Constitutional Court, which shows the real problem, which was also part of your intention. This is a question of how the Constitutional Court interprets the laws in force. We have here a case where a Muslim hatredist has refused the country of Carinthia the citizenship and this notice has been withdrawn by the Constitutional Court, with the reason that the country of Carinthia has failed to address also on those reasons which refer to the award of Austrian citizenship. And that, although this hateful religious teacher is and as a religious teacher beats children, does not give women the hand, approves of violence against women, and the attacks of the 11th. It's the right thing to feel on September. This is the problem that the Constitutional Court is going here, although the Citizenship Act would offer the possibility not to give this gentleman citizenship, and says that this is the arbitrariness of the country of Carinthia, this Muslim must be granted citizenship. This is the wrong way to deal with the laws in force in our country. We from the country of Carinthia have already refused this Muslim citizenship a number of times, the head of state Haider twice and also the head of state Gerhard Dörfler, and we will continue to deny this gentleman citizenship in the future, even if he now tears me in court and accuses me of a violation of the data protection law. [[OBJECTIVES]] This is precisely the one that has been called a hat-sprayer. I very much look forward to this because I know that the people and the rule of law are here on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25780	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25802	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Social democracy is the movement which, since its inception, has always used vehemently for the separation of state and church, and this attitude has not changed until today. Therefore, we will also oppose any attempt to change, and not accept, this relationship, which is also naturally borne by the majority of the population, by state and church and religious communities. We do not accept, however, that there are individuals who, under the cover of the exercise of religious freedom, oppose our rule of law. Nor do we take it that some archaic customs and traditions, including under the cover of religious content, are spreading in Europe, in Austria and are thus opposed to applicable law. I therefore support the request to the Federal Government to enter into a dialogue with the religious communities, since I believe that it is particularly important to win the religious communities as an active partner, so that they too can stand up for our legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25832	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. I'll set the clock up to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25853	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Mr Stadler has read you carefully, but, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, even if you do not agree with the expression “Leviten”, Member Stadler has nevertheless been perfectly right in his criticism of your request. I would add that it is not worth considering it even more precisely, because my previous speakers have already crushed these points and made clear the embarrassments of your request. But what I would like to point out now is the amendment tabled by the government parties, because it is no less embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, because what you are calling for is just as contrary to certain principles when, for example, it stands – I have mentioned it in blue; it could possibly be the reference that comes from the Freedom Party, because it is about the same attitude –: “The modern rule of law, which is based on fundamental and freedom rights, should, and should have a very limited influence on central elements of human life, in particular the field of sense-making.” And on top of that: Of central importance is a “harmonization of the practices of state and churches and religious societies, ” thus achieving the“ best possible benefit for all people in our country. ” Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be the task of the state. State and church are to be separated! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nor is it the responsibility of the state to “enter into a dialogue. ” What state is “in a dialogue ”? The state as a whole or parts, or are these the government parties? Of course, we also need a dialogue, but not the “dialogue of the state” with the religious communities. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular you, from Social Democracy, I am surprised that, in view of your traditions, which you have very strongly represented here, Mrs Becher, Mrs Grossmann, has accepted this amendment. It is also a question of values; you are perfectly right, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party. That is why I would also like to say: Let's ask for these values at last! But what you're doing about the FPÖ are flat-rate allegations by saying that "the Austrians" are against the immigration of Muslims. – No, many Austrians are Muslims, and the second is the Austrians who have problems with integration, those who face specific problems in our country. Yes, let us name these problems; I will give you the right. I am also in favour of having Muslim girls taking part in swimming lessons, for example. Yes, that is the task of the Austrian state to enforce it – and that is about the notions or interpretations of a particular religious community. There you have us on your side. We clearly believe that the state should enforce its primacy. But let us name it exactly where problems arise – and do not try to bring this sublime tone in here, where Mr Stadler is quite right; I really want to support him, because this is against someone else. Last note: They also do not trust ÖVP and SPÖ to speak plain text, and speak of the “rejection of very certain states” to be prevented. – What state do you mean by “very certain states ”? Liechtenstein will probably not be there; It will not be Slovenia either. It's Israel, of course. But name You must be clear so that we can speak plain text here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25921	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore come to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 166 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 25.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the recognition of religious communities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[21:35:59]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on Sports on Amendment No 529/A by Mr Hermann Krist, Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Dieter Brosz, Mr Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Sports Promotion Act 2005 – BSFG, last amended by the Federal Law BGBl. I No. 29/2007, amended (173 d.a.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Sports on Amendment No 528/A(E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, Peter Haubner, colleagues on the implementation of the objectives set out in the "White Paper on Sport" (EC) (174d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26011	We now come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Krist, speaking with a desired speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26041	Madam President. Minister of Sports! Mr State Secretary! High house! This proposal to amend the Federal Sports Promotion Act creates, as I believe, many good and interesting opportunities for sport as a whole with the proposed transitional right. On the one hand, it ensures that the umbrella organisations receive sufficient resources for their daily important and indispensable work in sport, especially in so economically difficult times. On the other hand, professional associations also receive rapid and uncomplicated funding to support their work. For example, in order to name only two possibilities, a stronger basic support in health and broadband sports will be possible, as well as for professionalization in young people and top-level sports. In addition, this transitional right creates space and nearly two years for intensive discussion and work to reconcile structural improvements in the Austrian sports promotion system. In an intensive dialogue with the umbrella and professional associations – together with the BSO and other sports organisations – guidelines are being developed, wishes and suggestions are discussed and the goal is to reduce money for effort and administration and more money directly for athletes, for new and innovative ones. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against doping. We must certainly support our NADA even more. The willingness of the Minister and his staff is more than given, as is the willingness to do so. here in Parliament to play a part in improving and modernising together. Perhaps this is not always at first sight, but in the end it is quite clearly recognizable. Together, we must support Austrian sport in an optimal way. I urge all those responsible not only to defend their “own kingdom”, but also to support the common and the whole that makes the sports family of Austria so strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26087	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26108	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, sport has taken over a wide variety of tasks: not only in terms of movement, but also in the fields of prevention, health and integration. As regards the provision of financial resources, we have been able to look back on a tremendous increase over the past nine years. If € 32 million for sport promotion was available in 2000, it is now € 71 million. The funds for sport promotion have thus been more than doubled. It is important and right to use these resources optimally. Austria is happy to appreciate, but it has a perfect sports structure – even in the international comparison. Throughout Austria, there is an association network with more than 13,000 associations, an excellent organisational structure with voluntary and unpaid employees to be supported by the trade associations through the roof associations. Thanks also for their tireless use in the sports sector. We also need recognition for our officials, and there is now also the time for the staff who, hopefully, will soon enter into force at the right time, because recognition can also be given in the form of security for the daily exercise of voluntary activity. We demand a lot of sports: On the one hand, sport is intended to correct social misdevelopments such as physical misdevelopments in children. We are therefore required to start working in the infant sector. In the field of school, it is a question of reconstitution of the cancelled sports hours through club work, and we should also motivate the 60 percent who do not move to practice sports. – You see, the sport has many-layered and diverse tasks, and it is important that we also receive the necessary financial resources. The associations do excellent work. No matter whether ASKÖ, ASVÖ or Sportunion, all draw at a strand in the Federal Sports Organisation, including the professional associations. It is also important to put the cooperation between the Ministry and organized sports on an excellent basis in this respect, so that we can realize our projects together in the sense of sports. We can only succeed together in sports. This is particularly true in the field of broadband, as it concerns interests from communities to the countries to activities at the federal level. It is of course also about the top sports promotions, because we are always very proud when it comes to receiving the athletes and celebrating with them, but we also have to create the basis for them in their Associations are given the necessary facilities – in financial terms and, of course, in infrastructure. In this sense, we have created a basis with today's novel, with this new § 11a, to professionalize. With this, sports is on a good path, and I wish we all worked in sports, that we continue the common path in sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26156	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26178	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Both applications are, of course, consensusal matter for us. We will agree. It is about additional funds for clubs in broadband. We all know, however, that reality in Austria is different than it is now largely represented. It is to be feared that the new regulations that are in place in the next few years will be allocated pro-poor or large-scale coalitionary, and that we will naturally have an eye on them. [[Abg. Grill: That's a premise!]] Many clubs are currently affected by the economic crisis and receive fewer sponsors. In this tense situation, the situation is heightened by the fact that the anti-corruption provisions are currently being tightened. The anti-corruption rules are certainly an important step in combating bribery and corruption, but it has been shown that these provisions have led to enormous legal uncertainty, especially among sponsors and sports organisations. It cannot be the goal of the anti-corruption provisions to move any sponsoring support or invitation to a sports event near criminal behavior. Here it is urgently necessary to improve and clarify. The White Paper Sport allows the doping of large space. Doping is a serious and complex problem. As regards the White Paper on Sport, it must also be said that at the present time there is nothing but a statement of intent. Unfortunately, we are far away from EU-wide minimum standards for doping control. Sports fraud is handled differently in every country. Austria is currently in a leadership position; we have very good and sufficient provisions on the doping problem. It is now necessary to take full advantage of the existing provisions. I am saying this, Minister, because the discussions are always moving towards an intensification and then – you know the discussion – to arrest athletes under the criminal law. We are strictly opposed to that. We have a constructive proposal on which we will discuss even more in the future: We have thought of setting up our own sports attorneys, for example the NADA authority, as the ASFINAG has, for example, within the framework of the Ministry of Transport. Anyone who performs his service clean in Austria has the right not to be criminalised from the outset. Black sheep must take into account proportionality – I value this point! – are excluded from the sports business. Wide-ranging sport must be supported by all of us, and there must be harmonisation across Europe. So, I think, we can win the fight against doping – and not otherwise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26220	Mr Deputies has now come to speak. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26242	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State Defense, now in use for sport! [[Abg. May. Molterer: ZBV!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Mr Haubner, the Federal Sports Promotion Act 2005 is, in our opinion, very, very, very in need of renovation and needs to be revised and put on new feet. Our colleague Stefan Markowitz will explain this later and explain the framework conditions. I am now dealing with two areas of the second item on the agenda in this package, namely the Commission's White Paper on Sport. First of all, on the promotion of the Honorary Office: The honorary office in sports is declining. The trend shows that sports enthusiasts increasingly practice individual sports. The athlete becomes more independent, and he becomes a single fighter. There are new incentives to create new incentives to make functional activities in the sports clubs more interesting. For example, tax relief for functional activities in various associations can also contribute to this. The tax relief of around €500 for volunteering is a useful promotion. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We expect from you, Minister of State, that this request for the support of the Office will appear in your report at the end of the year. Secondly, I should like to focus on: “Together against doping” of this White Paper mentions sport. They all know that doping in sports is a threat worldwide. Doping contradicts the principle of open and fair competition. Doping is a poison for sports and puts the professionals under pressure. The cyclist friend of Pröll could not resist the temptations and cheated. Doping seriously damaged the image of sport. The cross-country trainer and fighter in the Austrian army is a bad example. Doping represents a serious health risk for each individual. Many hobby athletes resort to forbidden means. Adolescents, for example, who want to achieve bizep growth in the gym will soon find their way into the gym. You don't know, ladies and gentlemen, what they're doing. You have no idea of the serious side effects of the preparations. They are therefore permanently damaging their bodies. That's what every health officer will tell them. Doping is a scourge of the present. The Commission therefore calls on all actors in the areas of sport and public health to pay particular attention to the harmful effects of doping. Sports organisations are invited to develop a code of conduct to improve the awareness of young athletes about the doping substances and their health effects. The athletes need to know what dangers they face. Dear ladies and gentlemen! These recommendations from the White Paper should be reflected in the report of the sports resort to the National Council. We will support you, Mr Minister, if you act accordingly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The last sentence: Mr. Federal Minister, place both demands – namely the promotion of the honorary office and the fight against doping – entirely, far ahead of your report. Only through a doping-free sport you stay healthy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26297	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26319	Madam President. Minister! While Peter Haubnerin referred to sports promotion in Austria as Paradise, the request itself showed that perhaps it is not quite paradisiacal everywhere, otherwise we would not see the need to share certain priorities. A certain principle of casting can already be used in the promotion of sport and has a certain degree of permission. However, it should be possible, on the other hand, to go more closely towards successful associations, to see where structures work, where young people work, and to provide more funding there accordingly. Setting priorities in the field of wide-ranging sports is something we have long called for, but by the way it is not that simple as an opposition party, because it means giving the Ministry, de facto, more scope for action, and then the question always arises how this is used. We have already seen the directives as a draft, we will see how it is being filled out. But the confidence advance is definitely there. It's also typical – I don't know, the other sports speakers will have gotten that – that we're already getting resolutions, what's not going on in any way; the professional associations, each one should not be put worse. There's basic support anyway. On the other hand, it must be easy to say where good work is being done, where there is success, should also flow in accordingly more. On the other hand, there are associations that have not really been on their feet for years. For example, I think of athletics as an association that has not necessarily shone with particularly innovative projects in recent years. – On the contrary, there is the impression that the attempt of former successful athletes to work with concepts is more hindered than promoted. In this area, one will have to say, if something does not really come, then there is no money that might be there for better structures. Second point: White Paper Sport. Yes, that is to be presented, we also had it in the last period. I'm not quite happy about the addition that there should be a strong coordination. I assume that the report will definitely be in place in the National Council, and that the concept of voting is also more interpretable. Of course, the main responsibility for the provision of measures is that of the Minister. Last point: Doping cannot be completely unanswered in the current situation. The first subcommittee meeting was, I think, quite interesting. On the other hand, it has also shown that there are already quite ideological beanie. I think it should focus on the question of which legal frameworks are the most useful to combat doping. The question which areas of criminal law can play a role I would address very pragmatically and simply consider how to really achieve the purpose of discovering the structures that are behind them. to bring to light all those who are closer to it – but who are much more widespread than we have taken on for many years, and who really get to grips with the whole situation. This is not only about the top sport, but of course also about broadband, where it is mainly about drying the structures. I am not just talking about the fitness centers and the well-known phenomenon, what is happening there in the field of power sports at doping. I only read yesterday the chapter in the new book of Bergmüller, in which he comes to talk on doping – I don't know if others have already read in it – and in which he has read the phenomena in the field of broadband – not the absolute top sportsmen! – described very clearly. There people come to him to do performance tests, so to speak, and if you ask for a little closer – in turn, typical in the cycling area – athletes are in situations where it becomes life-threatening. For example, Epo has been used for years, which has led to the night being spent in such a way that the alarm clock is connected to the pulse meter and in a certain pulse range, which is then already so low that it is located in the area of heart arrest, in the night the alarm clock is ringing, so that you don't accidentally die in the night. These are things that should open your eyes. It's not about saying that this is a cavalier crime or something that's somehow operated by many. I think it's really about preventing it because it shouldn't be that you can only practice certain sports if you get into the doping box. This has also been made clear in the Committee's statements: If you are an exceptional talent, if you train extremely well, you have the opportunity to get to the top of the world. If one has arrived there and is in an area where the other good people take unauthorised means, then it is almost impossible to compete. To this end, the fight against doping is essential, and there is still a lot to be done in the next few months. Let's see how it goes. It was a good start. I am not sure if there will also be an end to agreement. At least the commitment to making more is comprehensive. To that extent, I am looking forward to the expert discussions, where soon the field of medicine will also be on the agenda, and I believe that this will open up some more of the eyes and make it clear that we must take further steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26389	Next speaker: Federal Minister Mag. Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26410	Madam President. High house! Very soon: I can thank you for having become a five-party agreement from a four-party application. The request goes from Parliament and I think it is correct and important. It is also laid down in the Government Convention. We thus show that the High House takes the importance of sport and the support system seriously in sport. Above all, the introduction of § 11a – which has already been mentioned – is also an essential step towards a comprehensive reform of the Austrian Federal Sports Fund, which we are negotiating with the High House with 1. ==References====External links== What exactly is it about? – It has been mentioned several times. It is about the realization of the current needs of organized sports. Without organized sports, it is not possible in Austria, and that is also a confession to this organized sport. However, it is also about adapting the promotion to work and the needs of successful associations, clubs and athletes. I am very glad that a speaker of the opposition has also mentioned that the economic crisis has caused a great many sponsors and that we can also achieve a balance with this decision in this regard today. It is about supporting top athletes. It is also – I say this quite openly in this body – about the delivery of large-scale sporting events. For example, to mention a small example, I've been grabbing out the swimming pool that has been working successfully for years, which will now send 20 athletes to Rome to the World Championships. He has difficulty in financing this too. This revision of the funding system for the next two years to be decided today will also help the successful associations better than before. It should not be mentioned that due to the current administration in top-level sports, especially through the professional associations that work very successfully, such as the swimming association, such as the Table Tennis Association in 2009, some of them receive less money than in 2008. This is not desirable because the successful ones should also be given the opportunity to be financially supported by us. That is why I thank you for this five-party decision. But that's only the beginning! We are in the process of drawing up guidelines to meet this § 11a also with life. There are evaluation and perspective discussions. We will, together with the BSO, with all the umbrella organisations, hold individual talks with all trade associations and also implement this new policy classification. It is about flexible and goal-proof promotion. It is about direct support for athletes in the top sports area. It's about transparency, and it's about controlling. Once again, I would like to stress that this is a transitional right, which is to be incorporated into a very modern new federal sports promotion law. Secondly, if I may speak briefly to him on the White Paper on Sport: I am quite in agreement with my previous speakers. We will draw up the recommendations of this White Paper by the end of the year, as requested by Parliament, and I will also send you a report. However, I do not believe that this White Paper is too inconsistency in a number of points, even though on other points, such as the fight against doping, it is quite useful incentives and initiatives. You can count on us to take this White Paper seriously, and it has already succeeded in implementing many of the suggestions contained in this White Paper for Austria in the last legislative period under Minister of Sport Gusenbauer and the State Secretary for Sport Lopatka. I am – I think a colleague from the BZÖ has said this – of your opinion, if you believe that there must be a common European approach in the doping sector. Austria is now a pioneer in this field, but Austria cannot be seen as a pioneer in Europe alone, there must be a common European approach. There are some initiatives in which Austria is leading at European level, but that is not enough. The last point, the doping problem, which has been raised several times – and I also believe that the Subcommittee has done a good job so far – will have to be discussed in more succession. If we had a decision on this today, we would have led the subcommittee ad absurdum. We still have a lot of expert discussions ahead of us. I just think that at the end of the day in Austria there must be clearly a tougher approach to doping than it is now possible by the good anti-doping law, which was adopted in August of the previous year. But an intensification is essential from my point of view due to the occurrences – the word Fall Kohl, the word Fall Hütthaler. Again: Thank you for the support, for the joint five-party agreement on both points – the White Paper and the point of the new sport promotion, which should now apply for over two years!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26483	Now, Mr. Dr. Wittmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26504	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This new type of sport promotion has two thrusts. I believe that this is a very quick measure, a targeted measure and a response to the fact that sponsor funds are mainly lost to the small associations. Although we cannot compensate for everything that is now happening in the withdrawal of companies that sponsor clubs or other organisations, we can therefore make a significant contribution to supporting those associations that are under pressure. – This is the part of this application that supports broadband. The other part is a targeted top-level sport promotion, a professionalization of the top-level sport promotion and ultimately also a support to those associations that are successful. I think it is very important for both sides to be attacked at this time. I think this is a direction-setting law because, as we all know, sports promotion has so far included a very overwhelming bureaucracy and administration. This is an application that does not include any of these administrative superimpositions, but according to which it is targeted and directly breakable and the promotion is targeted and direct to the final consumer – speak to the small club or to the successful association – so that we do not have to submit projects that need to be evaluated, but can be addressed very quickly and objectively. This is, as it were, a prototype for a greater reform, so that the administration of these various pots, which have been targeted in the course of various activities, but which have involved a great deal of administrative effort, is now being re-established, which will ultimately result in less administration. I think this is an excellent approach. I also believe that the ministry has already responded very well in other areas and has responded quickly. I only remember the movement initiative for school and kindergarten, in which it was one of the ministers' first activities to release these funds in order to ultimately invest in school and kindergarten. There we can take the approach that the children not only sit in front of the TV screen or in front of the game console, but also again deal with their own bodies and ultimately have fewer health risks. That was a targeted measure, and it is, I believe, a tangible package that has been developed here in the last six months. I think we're on the right track together. Of course, a request to the Minister is that, in re-designing the sport promotion, the administration and administration should be given a very substantial light, and perhaps this truly targeting, targeted law as a prototype, because it includes much less administration than the other pots.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26541	Mr Höfinger has now come to speak. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26562	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is good that there are also issues where, despite different perspectives and opinions, we are in principle in agreement where we find a basic agreement and where, as here in the field of sport, there is also mutual understanding, because the resolution on the subject of the White Paper has been adopted unanimously. As a headline, you could say: Sport is to be promoted and promoted in the future. Within the European Union, this is also to be done strategicly and organised, of course in cooperation with the sports organisations at European level, but also with the individual Member States and the leading sports organisations there. As a basis for this White Paper Sport, there is an analysis carried out over two years in close cooperation with well-known sports organisations and institutions. For the first time in the field of sport, a real review of the case law of the European Court of Justice and Commission decisions has been taken, and for the first time, this White Paper on Sport is also a comprehensive discussion by the European Commission on sport. There are three aspects that are particularly addressed: the social role, the economic dimension and the organisation of sport. A structured dialogue with the sports organisations at European and national level and a detailed action plan with concrete measures is envisaged for further progress. I think this White Paper should not be reduced to the pure doping theme; it contains much more. Of course, a central issue is the effort to achieve a coordinated EU-wide approach to the doping issue, but it also concerns the development of new guidelines for physical activity and the creation of an EU network for health promotion. It is also very important, for example, to create opportunities to promote social inclusion and integration through sporting activities. In summary, I think, you can say: Sports is important, sport is social and economic, but also health policy is an important factor that takes a high priority in our lives. With the implementation of this White Paper sport at national level by this House, but also above all by you, Federal Minister, and your analysis and your report to this House can we, I think, together make an efficient, important contribution to the further development of sports in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26615	Mr Ing. Höbart is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26637	Madam President. Mr Darabos! High house! Of course, the Freedom Party supports and demands all initiatives that promote sport in general and, of course, top-level sports/breeding. In this sense, these two legislative initiatives are quite legitimate and supportive. We will also have a positive assessment of these two initiatives and we will vote positively here. Of course, we must say that we must always, and in the nearer future, try to ensure that the budgetary, financial resources used, which are pumped into sport by means of sport promotion measures, are also under review again and again, because transparency must be given. I would very much like to address political associations here, but do not necessarily want to mention names. It is important, however, that you really always act here in the sense of sport and that not – there have already been some events in the past – these means may then be channeled into dubious channels. It is therefore a question of transparency, and we must also stand for this transparency. However, we also need to have an open discussion about the many, innumerable volunteers who put their heart's blood into the sport every day and actually have very little of it. We can imagine that these volunteer employees are being put under the arms and supported by other means, not only monetary but also monetary ones, because I think it is a command of the hour to support these personalities. A few words on the anti-doping rules, which are also found in the “White Paper Sport” their legitimate rainfall: The FPÖ is of course also committed here to a clear and uncompromising fight against doping. However, it cannot be that sportsmen – whether from the hobby or from the top range – are already prophylactically criminalized. Here we have to introduce a bar, and we believe that doping is such a complex topic that it is not so easy to answer. There were also discussions on whether the criminal laws should be strengthened in this context. We believe that there is a need to make greater use of the existing rules. There are fraud paragraphs, there are several ways in the criminal code to intervene here. That is why we also propose to set up our own anti-doping public prosecutorship, which may even involve NADA officially, because it is currently possible to call NADA a toothless tiger. There are certainly possibilities and proposals to better involve NADA. But one thing is finally fixed – and then I'm already done: We need a pan-European solution at the end of the day, because with our own national regulations and legislation, we can “keep our own house” – under quotations – but that is of course not enough for Weitem.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26677	Mr Markowitz is now speaking. I'll set the clock up to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26698	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! To the Federal Sports Promotion Act: Sports is more than a leisure activity, sports in our time is the ideal compensation to the many hours on the office chair or to a monotonous movement. More sport could prevent many health damage. Thus, sport promotion can not only lift public health, no, it also creates a considerable return on the way. When disease or behavioural damage is prevented in good time, health expenditure is reduced, which is a not to be forgotten advantage and a cost factor. Wide-ranging sport is especially important for our children and young people. Instead of spending hours in front of the TV or on the computer, they can prevent the damage to prosperity as early as possible. In addition, due to sufficient sporting activity, young people can also be removed from getting onto the track from boredom. Of course, the promotion of broadband offers still great benefits. From the many hobby athletes, the really big ones can also come out, the supersporters who successfully hold the international reputation of Austria in the sports world. Ladies and gentlemen, come to the conclusion: There is still much to be done in the field of sport promotion. We from the BZÖ are in favour of pooling the activities of the Roof Associations in order to avoid dual and multi-trackness, both in the field of promotions and in the individual areas of activity, for example in the administration. This would create resources that could flow back to sports and athletes. The Federal Government should draw up a total Austrian sports structure plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26732	Now comes Mr Mag. Maier speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26753	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Doping, of course, also plays a very important role in the “White Paper Sport”. The European Parliament has also expressed its views on this issue and on 8 May. A common legislative approach was requested by the Member States in May last year. I think that this is absolutely necessary and I consider different rules to be absolutely counterproductive, because in this case there is no cross-border persecution of doping offenders, neither sports law nor criminal law. That is why we need a common approach here, and I hope that, after Mr Darabos has presented a report, we, the Austrian Parliament, will decide in this House that Austria is of the opinion that there must be a common legislative approach to combating doping in sport. A critical comment to my predecessor from the FPÖ on NADA: The NADA is not a toothless tiger! The NADA task area is based on the WADA code. NADA is not an investigation authority but an independent doping control authority, with the following tasks: Organisation of the Doping controls and second, then to decide on appropriate sanctions. The sanctions are implemented in Austria by the NADA Legal Commission. I'll hold on to one thing: This path was the right one, and the legal commission of NADA Austria GmbH has already taken appropriate decisions for the benefit of Austrian sport. The “White Paper Sport” is the Commission’s first discussion of sport. We will also agree with many regulations contained in the Coubertin Action Plan. But there are areas – Mr Darabos has already said – which we cannot agree with. Let me give you an example. There are many active former footballists or delegates in this House, for example colleague Rasinger, colleague Wolfgang Katziano, Federal Minister Norbert Darabos. This is the question: Do we want to support UEFA and FIFA on the question of the 6:5 rules for club teams in international competition or not? The EU Commission considers that such a 6:5 rule violates the freedom of establishment and freedom of movement. If we were to vote here in this House, I do not know in which direction we would tend. I do not think we would follow the Commission's recommendation here, but rather we would look more closely at the young Austrian young players. Mr Federal Minister, therefore, the discussion about the “White Paper Sport” will be a very strenuous, but a very successful one for Austrian sport. - Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26807	Mr Pack has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26829	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Many of my previous speakers have already mentioned how Austria is at the top of the world in sports, for example with its club network, and that we all expect a lot from sports and clubs. That is – Peter Haubner has explained – we must provide the necessary financial resources to meet these expectations, because only through these means can our non-profit associations, which form a very dense network in Austria, maintain their wide range of sporting services. One of my previous speakers has already mentioned it: Without width sports, there will be no top sport, and without the signboards in the top sport, there will be no long-distance sport again. Finally, I would like to address the issue of doping very briefly, because many speakers have mentioned this point. I think it is important that we doping is not impoverished, but that we also do not generalise it and damage the sports world in Austria, assuming in principle that every athlete is doping and that doping is one of the most serious crimes in Austria. The prevention tasks – and this also shows us the work in the area of drug policy – are extremely important. This is why we should be here, in the field of prevention. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. In this sense: The two applications show that Austria is on a good track.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26871	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26892	Madam President. Mr. Minister! I think we agree on one point in this House, namely that sport is something important and is also a major factor in the social field. That is why I also believe that all the measures that make it possible to promote sport are welcome and correct in the field of broadband on the one hand, but on the other hand also in the top of the sport. We will support both requests – the previous speakers from my group have already said it. The request concerning the amendment of the Federal Sports Promotion Act certainly goes in the right direction, of which we are convinced. The aim is to ensure that free-standing funding is used for basic support in broadband and for good projects in top-level sports. Both areas – width and top-notch sports – have important functions: Breitensport is a field of activity for more than half of the Austrians, and the representatives of the top sports represent not only Austria worldwide, but also serve as a role model for our youth. That's supposed to be an assignment to us, too. We also believe that the second request concerning the implementation of the White Paper is in the right direction. A meaningful discussion, ladies and gentlemen, and a review of the European Commission's suggestions are, I believe, important and correct. All measures which improve or drive sport in the right direction must be supported. Mr Darabos, the Federal Minister, since you are both responsible for sports and for the defence of the state, please ask you: In all cases, it is important to continue to promote military sport, not only in the top-ranking field, but above all also in the field of sport with the recruits. From my own experience, I know that sport in the Federal Army is partly the first contact of young people with sports. Therefore, it is all the more important that the training of trainers – the trainer and the teacher guard – be carried out at a high quality level. So saving in this area would be completely wrong. My Last Appeal All of you, ladies and gentlemen: I would say don't let us go into a political hack in the field of sports! Our athletes – and I would like to remind you, most athletes – go an honest course and perform their achievements through training rather than doping, and they deserve a respectful handling. There are complete misconceptions or prejudices!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26939	Mrs Oberhauser spoke. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26962	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been reported about the changes in the Federal Sports Promotion Act today, including the causes: Intrusion of sponsorship due to the economic crisis. We all know that it is especially important to get young people off the street with broadband. How often have we heard that clubs do work to prevent crime in order to prevent drug use?- Oh, my God! In other words, support for broadband in this area can not only promote the health of young people, but can also contribute to the further way of life in a very positive way. Minister Darabos has already said that this change dates back to an initiative of the House, and he has thanked the House for the appreciation of sports. I believe that these two laws should also have deserved the appreciation of the chairman of the Sports Committee. In the debate on these two laws, Mr Westenthaler is clearly going to turn out to me today. The participants of the Subcommittee on Doping know: He has tried in a very populist way to attract public attention with a non-business-conform application – and was then not willing to take up business-conformity. I would therefore have liked the chairman of the Sports Committee, Mr Westenthal, to give these two important laws the appreciation you give them all.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27000	Mr Obernosterer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27021	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think I need to explain that Austria is a sports nation. Austria can be proud of its athletes. I know what I'm talking about. As a former multiple national and state champion as well as European Cup winner in a sport that was not very popular, in the Naturbahn sport, I am of course a fighter for supporting precisely the unpopular sports outside the country. Each of us who has children knows how important the sport is, how important it is that the children stay on the sports ground and not on the parking lot. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I am particularly pleased that on this issue, which concerns mainly our youth – although top sports are quite, very important – all five parties have a clear confession and that we agree that we need sport, that we need to promote it and that sport, sports activity is the best way to introduce youth into the work environment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27060	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27084	Madam President. Minister of Sports! The European Commission’s “White Paper on Sport” deals with the social role of sport, the organisation of sports structures, but also with misdevelopments in the exercise of sports and the environment of sports. This paper presents both the width of the topic and the social, health, social, educational and economic importance of broadband and top-level sport for citizens. Consideration is being given to the importance of sport in European policy. It is not about limiting national competences or the independence of sports associations, but rather about strengthening the importance of sport at European level and responding to common challenges and problems in European cooperation. The Commission is relying on sports structures and not on a harmonisation of the sporting organisation. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already discussed economic contexts, the exploitation of young athletes, doping, violence and racism. All these problems cannot be debated nationally, but must be debated at a larger international and global political level. The SPÖ is very interested in a wide-ranging and open debate on the role of sport in our society, both nationally and internationally. I am very glad that Austrian sport is in good hands with Minister Norbert Darabos.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27121	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Federal Sports Promotion Act in 2005, together with the title and receipt in 173 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 174 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 26.) [[22:28:59]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on motions for resolutions 483/A(E) by Mr Mag. Alev Korun, colleagues on the freedom of punishment for members in the event of unlawful residence (176, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27202	We're now on the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Hübner. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27230	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today, in the security debate of all political groups, including the Green Group, we have heard that we must strengthen the rule of law and protect citizens. There, where the fight against citizenship and rights ends, this fight seems to end at least for the Greens when I look at the current business. Now it is about not strengthening the rule of law, but drawing his teeth. Mr Steinhauser said that the rule of law had to show teeth. Now he's obviously not allowed to do it anymore. The present proposal is a small but not insignificant mosaic to undermine the enforceability of our state. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] It is a small, but not insignificant way, way to overcome one of the biggest problems we face, namely illegal mass immigration across Europe, which executives are putting out of hand the tools. Although I am not surprised that this is a request from the Greens, I am surprised that the government parties have tabled an amendment here and have also agreed to it in the Committee, which is identical in its importance and consequences: While the Greens have called for the removal of this favour, the government's request to deal with the privilege of the family. To the request itself: The reason for allowing family members to benefit from people who oppose the deportation is supposed to be inequality. The reason is that, in criminal law, a member of the family may be allowed to benefit in circumstances when it comes to withdrawing someone from the law enforcement or arrest. But we are not in law enforcement, but we are at the end of an illegal state – and the illegal residence in a country is an illegal state. If we want to continue the parallel to the criminal law system, it must be noted that there is support for a insistence in a criminal act which is a contributory and also punishable. In the criminal law, it is even punishable to refrain from anything necessary in order to ward off or end the criminal act. That is, there is no reason to get the executive out of control. I therefore call for the amendments to be rejected, both of them, both the Greens' request and the amendment proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27282	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Kapeller. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27303	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Hübner, I somehow find it difficult to understand your argument here. First of all, with regard to this repair of § 115 – so we see it – that there is a privilege of family members in a criminal offence: I can't quite understand that the police are supposed to be taken out of hand, so to speak. Nor can I understand that you are not going d’accord with us, which we are in favour of this resolution, that this will in fact help the right to break through. Indeed, there are many other criminal offences in the criminal code, in which there is very probably also a privilege for relatives. This is simply about repairing something, namely § 115; it is about the privilege of members who are accused of the aid for illegal residence. That's why it's about no more and no less. Therefore, I think that if we look at that from this side and therefore the police do not take away any instruments – against which I would always act – we can very well agree to this motion for a resolution in order to be able to act in accordance with the law here in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27338	The next speaker is Mr Grosz. - Please. [[Abg. Grosz: I quit!]] You don't mind? [[Abg. Grosz: Yes!]] So, now it's gonna be complicated. – That is to say, next, Mr Vock will speak with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27383	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Since some Members here in the House are obviously not aware of the Convention on Refugees, allow me to quote two paragraphs of it briefly. Chapter I, Article 1(2): ‘As a refugee within the meaning of this Agreement, who:... shall be persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, belonging to a particular social group or political attitude as a result of... events arising out of well-founded fear...’. Perhaps this is not yet known, but it is nowhere here as a reason: if someone wants to improve economically. – This is the classical immigration. Everyone is entitled to the right to immigrate – but not under the title of asylum law. Article 2 of the Geneva Convention on Refugees, ‘General obligations’: ‘Every refugee shall have obligations vis-à-vis the country where he is staying, in particular by subjecting himself to his laws and regulations and to the measures taken to preserve public order.’ We want to fix something today. The application states that in 2007 there were 17 cases where refugees have been submerged. That is, they have not submitted to our laws, for example, our notification law, but they are illegally subjugated. The relatives have not betrayed the stay and have been condemned for this. That's what we're trying to fix: In the future, one should be able to conceal this as a member of the family. That is to say, one should simply deal with the actual act within the meaning of our law, in the case of the Reporting Act. This clearly contradicts Article 2 of the Geneva Convention on Refugees, the general obligations. But You want to change the legal system today and here. They want to facilitate violations of the Geneva Convention on Refugees. I'll tell you one thing: Neither the request of the Greens nor the amendment of the Government parties can do so. Whoever is praised for the Austrian Constitution cannot be against a change as it exists here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27433	Mrs Hagenhofer is now speaking with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27454	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) § 115 Foreign Police Act normizes the aid for unauthorised stay. This is a very sensitive matter which the legislator should and should address with great sense of responsibility. It is, in principle, reasonable and currently regulated in such a way as to penalise those who deliberately refrain from the procedure for the adoption or enforcement of measures to end the stay, thereby facilitating the unauthorised stay in the territory of a Member State of the EU. If you cannot afford to pay a small fee for the above-mentioned act, you will have to expect a more severe punishment, and if you are involved in the game, there will be a further intensification. The objective of this provision is clear, but the problem is often in detail. And so, as I mean, in part rightfully, many charitative organizations, but also experts from NGOs, have been massively criticized that even close relatives can be punished for humanitarian support from foreigners. This was all the more reasonable than, for example, in § 299 of the Criminal Code in the case of the case-law of favour in paragraph 3, it is normed that it is not to be punished who commits the act in the intention of favouring a family member. This means, in the extreme case, that one may favour a murderer as a member of the population, but it is punishable if one commits aid to an administrative offence under the Foreign Police Act. For good reason, the government parties have therefore stated in the Government Convention that it is precisely in the § 115 Foreign Police Act, “aid for illegal residence”, a privilege – and this is what it is about – to be normized for members of the criminality. It is also in line with the rule of law of most citizens and, above all, with the principles of the democratic rule of law. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is clearly in the interest of the citizens that the towing industry is fought with all consequence and hardness, that commercial activities in the event of aid for unauthorized stay are severely punished, and that people who do so against pay should not escape. On the other hand, it is also clear that the moral duty of relatives to help their close relatives in need is not It is not necessary to object to criminal law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27494	Mr Mag. Stadler is now speaking. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (on the way to the speaker's desk) It will go faster!]] – honourable Member, the BZÖ has a total of 8 minutes of remaining speaking time. I'm just paying attention to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27543	In Stakkato: We will reject both matters – that is, we can only reject the Committee's report. We do not agree with both texts. I also do not know, Mrs Hagenhofer, where the difference to the Greens' request is. It's basically the same thing you decide here. First: If one looks at the family concept that the European Commission's draft directive is now trying to bring to the Member States, then I was wrong. It literally provides for the extension of the family to include even married minors of asylum seekers in the future. In other words, even the spouse of the minors falls under the family concept. This will be a “loving” definition that will allow tow organisations to expand unanticipatedly. Something to clarify: The telos of privilege in the criminal law in force, Mrs Hagenhofer, that is, why family members are privileged to be treated under applicable criminal law, is quite another thing. The aim of the law is not to burden family-internal relations unnecessarily by criminalization, to play spouses or children in relation to parents. – On the other hand, this is something else: This is a question of introducing family privileges in order to relieve a contributory. This has nothing to do with the family relationship between family members and each other. You see, and that is a completely different, completely different goal. And we will not accept this goal, we will not carry it. We think it is wrong for us to be right-wing. The fact is, if you decide that and actually write it into the § 115 Foreign Police Act, then in the future – what “wonder”! – entire towing organisations are only more family organisations. I swear to you, you'll be amazed how soon they'll all be related. That is what I am looking at, how we will then continue to conduct criminal proceedings. They thus open the door and door for the abuse of the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27584	Now comes Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27605	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) § 115 of the Foreign Police Act has been criticized from the beginning, since its adoption, and rightly so. The Greens have repeatedly pointed out, in parliamentary ways, that this – I am now taking over the quote of Mr Stadler – is unnecessary criminalization of family members who have taken place in the Foreign Police Act not only is unnecessary, but would also lead to avoidable hardships. What we have prophesied has also occurred; we now know that too. In 2007, 15 persons were sentenced by courts under § 115 of the Foreign Police Act. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Right!]] These were close to family members who, for example, provided only a sleeping place to their close family members who were not in possession of a residence permit. This was, for example, the spouse of an asylum seekers in Leoben who was sentenced to a two-month imprisonment. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Condition, please! Tell me about it.]] We all know that there are several, certainly a few hundred cases of binational marriages where people cannot return before and not because the foreign third-country nationals, family members of Austrians have landed here, so to speak, often cannot leave because they are former asylum seekers, but in most cases they were not allowed to bring in the application for family integration and thus were illegalized by Austrian laws. [[Abg. Scheibner: By chance!]] If, with a section such as the § 115 of the Foreign Police Act, you still have an additional criminalization of family members who simply don't like the illegalization of their next family members, and who refuse to put them at the door and not even give them a place to sleep, you have to assume: There's a lot of lazy. That is why we have proposed that family members should remain impunity in such cases. The parallel to the Criminal Code has already been mentioned by Mr Hagenhofer. We also agree with this attitude. However, we were voted on in the Human Rights Committee with an amendment, and now the text is that there should be a privilege for members in terms of criminality. We will go along with this committee report because we think that a privilege is better than nothing at all. The legal situation must be changed. However, we are also very excited about the proposal for a law that will come from the interior area. We assume that, especially since the Government Convention also wants to propose a solution here, we would like to believe that the Federal Government is aware of the problem and that it really wants to address and solve this problem. That is why we expect the new law, which we hope will soon be presented to the House, to provide a real solution and a genuine freedom of punishment for family members in these cases. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27668	Mr Kurzmann is now speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27690	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party, as my previous speakers, Mr Hübner and Mr Vock have already said, will not agree to these requests. [[Abg. Scheibner: Can we hear Mr Vock again?]] I would therefore like to make a few general comments on the asylum debate. We liberals assume that the laws of foreign law must be implemented consistently and that they should be improved where they are lacking – that is to say, they should be tightened up and not liberalized. Freedom of punishment, ladies and gentlemen, for illegals would lead to another suction effect in our country. We would then suddenly have all the Zogajs of this world here with us in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say quite openly, we liberals take the view that the boat is full, because: Over the past 15 years, about 1.5 million foreigners have moved to Austria. Austria, the Austrian Federal Governments were not as cautious and selective in this migration by Weitem as the US or the Australians were. The result can be seen everywhere in the country today: Hundreds of thousands of disadvantaged and unqualified people have landed here with us who are not needed on the labour market. If almost 50 percent of the prisoners in the Austrian detention centres are foreigners or even citizens with migration backgrounds, as you sometimes call them – that is, those who have been nativeed – then all the alarm bells must be heard by the advocates of the so-called multicultural mixed society. [[Call at the ÖVP – in the direction of the rather sparsely occupied series of greens –: there is no one there anymore!]] In 2008, according to the Ministry of the Interior for 17 000 asylum seekers, considerable €80 million was spent on basic care alone. This is particularly difficult for the Austrian taxpayers at a time of economic difficulties. We liberals, ladies and gentlemen, want asylum procedures to be shortened as far as possible within a year. For years, therefore, we have been calling for a ban on innovation which makes the famous chain applications impossible. We simply have the obligation to consistently deal with the return of criminalized foreigners or illegal asylum seekers. The Greens' request is diametrically opposed to our convictions, and therefore we will consistently reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27745	Mr Glaser is now speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27767	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! To this request of the Greens, it must first be said that he is one of those hard work which the government has already taken precautions in the Government Convention, because this revision of the § 115 Foreign Police Act is already contained in the Government Convention. However, we will support the committee's amendment because it must be understood from the logic of criminal law that this is the way forward. It is clear, however, ladies and gentlemen, that the illegal residence is a central issue of the Foreign Police Act and must be seen in the context of asylum law. This government and Mrs Fekter, the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, have already made an intensive effort and will continue to strive to keep up with all that the opposition always tries to mix. On the one hand, we want applications from asylum seekers to be dealt with quickly and to decide quickly whether they can stay here. On the other hand, we also want to make it equally clear that the abuse of the right of residence, the right of asylum, and that people who make repeated applications will be decided and postponed as quickly as possible. But it is just as clear to us and our concern that people who are rightfully here are as well integrated into our society as possible. I believe that all these areas in our Mrs. Federal Minister are well removed, that she is a guarantee that this is really being done in accordance with the law and also in terms of human rights. So that's in real good hands with her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27799	The next speaker was Mr Plessl. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27820	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Minister of State! High house! This application is submitted to the National Council a novel to the Foreign Police Act, to which the Federal Government has announced itself in the Government Convention with the amendment of the § 115 Foreign Police Act – a novel with the aim of achieving a privilege for members in terms of criminality. For a uniform and clear legal interpretation, the continuous use of the term “members” in the criminal code is a prerequisite. This innovation creates the necessary basis for the privilege of the next family. In view of the different figures, I would also like to say a few words about the area of asylum. We got the numbers now; I quote here from an APA issue of 16. ==References== I'll get you together. In the first quarter of 2008, 2 812 asylum applications were submitted, 3 788 asylum applications in the first quarter of 2009. This is a strong increase of 34.7 percent. Most of the applications came from citizens of the Russian Federation, Afghans, Kosovo's citizens and Serbs. To relativize some comparisons. Some 69 000 applications were submitted between 2001 and 2002. Between 2007 and 2008, around 24 000 applications were submitted. In addition, we carry a backpack of over 30 000 open asylum procedures from the previous years. The last SPÖ-ÖVP government has made enormous efforts to deal with these open asylum procedures quickly and under the rule of law. The establishment of the Asylum Court will add these open procedures to a final decision. Due to the above challenges, the SPÖ supports a common European asylum system, but on the basis of fair burden distribution. This would improve the situation of Austria. It is essential to ensure that EU Member States fulfil their obligations and exploit their capacities. In conclusion, the revision of the § 115 Foreign Police Act is necessary and this will cut off another point of the government programme today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27858	Mr Prehauser is now speaking at 2 minutes' desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27879	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! I want to be – and I am grateful for that – nowhere in my life. 70 years ago, there were a number of Austrians who sought asylum abroad who had to leave their home country. I don't think we can really appreciate how happy we are that we have brought this time behind us. But on this occasion do not forget that there is no such happiness in the form for other nations, other peoples. I think that it is precisely in the willingness to grant asylum that a country's basic humanitarian idea can be held and determined. And it is good for us to really look at how we deal with asylum seekers. I see in this resolution a well-intentioned step towards a fairer approach to the next wave of asylum seekers in the house. I do not think this is an excuse for us to attract asylum seekers. We should give shelter if it's necessary. We have to create the legal conditions for this, so that in our country there is no political mud battle on the back of those affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27915	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27937	Madam President. Minister Mitterlehner! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We have already incorporated the family privilege for the § 115 Foreign Police Act into the Coalition Convention. This is a consensus between the government parties. We will be sending the Novelle of Foreign Rights in May to review, so that we hope to be able to lead these legislative measures to the National Council before the summer break. I would be pleased if we could still assign this novel so that we can decide it immediately in the autumn at a meeting of the Committee on the Interior. I hope that an appointment coordination for autumn will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27961	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 176 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – It was adopted by a majority. (E 27.) [[22:58:16]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government Template (156 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Gas Economic Act (162 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28010	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Ing. Hofer. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28044	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is a good opportunity to point out that we have made ourselves dependent to a very high extent on fossil energy sources and the gas crisis has shown that this dependence has, in reality, a fatal impact on private households and on the domestic economy and will continue to have. We must therefore focus on the domestic renewable sources: Hydropower, wind power, biomass, photovoltaics, solar thermals, geothermal. This is what we need to pay much more attention to in the future – not because we are eco-romantic and we are following our dreams on the spicy scented campfire in the au, no, but because we know that Austria's energy supply is a central question for the stock of our homeland. We have no pleasure in investing additional funds in projects such as the "Nabucco" pipeline, because we believe that this continues the dependence under other omens, because of course Turkey is sitting on the long lever and has the opportunity to lead the whole of Europe and, above all, Austria on the band. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to infrastructure, we must be very careful that we invest in the field of electricity supply, because we know that the power grids, which were built and renovated some 20, 25 years ago with a high financial effort, are now again in need of renewal and it would be wise to invest in these pipelines especially in times when the labour market is in crisis. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Why? – This is also why we can transport renewable energy; because if the wind blows in the Burgenland and the wind power plants in Parndorf produce a lot of electricity, then we have to save this electricity, with pumped storage power plants located in the west of the country. That is why we need these powerful networks, and also because of the fact that we will have to deal with smart grids in the field of national energy suppliers in the future. There is also a high level of investment in this area. Therefore, my appeal to E-Control is also to ensure that network operators do not make financial outrages through the network so that investment in infrastructure can be made right now, in times of economic crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28087	Mr Steindl is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28108	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are dealing with a repair of the Gas Economic Act, more precisely a section of it, namely § 23b para. 2 Z2, which constitutes "the legal basis for the system for the summary of network areas for network levels 2 and 3, because of the violation of the provision of the type. 18 B-VG (...)’. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] ==References====External links== ==References====External links== – We change exactly one word: We leave the word “can” away. There are then opportunities to set up appropriate networks, especially in solidarity, in order to be on the one hand, especially when new networks are being developed. the reason for costing network operators and providing the customer with cheap networks and networks on the other hand. Mr Hofer has stated here that renewable energy is particularly important. - I'm with you. That is why Mr Mitterlehner and his fellow minister Berlakovich have already prepared the appropriate strategies. We all know that by 2020, we will also have a share of 34 percent of renewable energy in Austria. We do everything we can to create the infrastructure for this. And we will also value appropriate security, namely security of supply, and we will do everything we can to achieve it here. This also requires appropriate networks and networks. Hiezu is required for an amended version of this legal provision. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28160	Mr Katzian is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28181	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out that § 23b of the Gas Economic Act had to be amended due to a finding of the Constitutional Court. It's a word, but it's a very hard word to follow. This amendment now makes it clear that the competent authority must combine the networks of different network operators with the seat within the same federal state for all network levels into a network area. This innovation of the Gas Economic Act also gives us the opportunity to discuss important strategic decisions in energy policy. In the government programme, we have known that security of supply is an essential pillar of our energy policy, and my previous speakers have already pointed out this. I think that if we take security of supply seriously, then the social issue in energy policy is also raised. In particular, we must take every step to ensure that energy is a viable raw material, that energy remains something of a good quality for all people in society. This is a criterion that must meet all our efforts and actions. Especially in times of rising unemployment and increasing poverty, the social question in the energy field must be asked and answered accordingly. If we take security of supply seriously, ladies and gentlemen, this is unthinkable without the necessary development of the line or necessary extension of the line. Therefore, the improvement of the legal framework in order to be able to meet overarching public interests is also the focus of future legislative changes. Measures to speed up planning and approval procedures will also be necessary, without which it will not be possible. It is here that the focus must be on the public interest in the expansion of hydropower and the increased consideration of climate protection in the approval of hydropower projects. – We are just preparing a novel of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. I think we must do everything we can to support those who, regardless of all the state measures we have put in place, can ensure that employment arises. There the energy supply companies have a brightly filled cash register, which only waits for appropriate investments to be made – always among the aspects I mentioned earlier. I would like to congratulate you, Minister of State, on your previous activity in the field of energy policy. I believe it is important that you – at least this is my perception – have taken steps to ensure that energy policy is operated by those who are democratically legitimate in this respect. I thank you for that. And I assume and hope that will be the case in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28229	Mr Ing. Lugar is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28251	Mr President. High house! The amendment of the Gas Economic Act is a purely formal matter and is therefore supported by us. But I immediately grasp the opportunity to talk about basic things here: We need to talk about the extent to which gas security is given in our country. We've got a shot in front of the bug twice now. We've had to experience twice what it's like when the gas tap is suddenly turned on, and the last time is not that long ago. When the last time the gas tap was closed in the winter, the Minister of State also made some thoughts about it. He said at the time: We need to develop an energy strategy for Austria in order to create security of supply. [[Abg. Grill: Energy authorship!]] Now, a few months later, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Environment, together with the Minister for the Environment, presented an energy strategy for Austria. And this energy strategy for Austria, which the Minister of Economic Affairs has presented so “great” has included nothing but the declaration of intent to develop an energy strategy for Austria! [[Call the ÖVP: Expect it!]] So I think an energy strategy for Austria must contain more than the intention to develop such a strategy! It should contain concrete measures so that we can finally take something against this untold dependence on Russian gas. There is a final need to do something, and it is not enough simply to agree with a second minister that something needs to be done, but we need concrete measures. [[Abg. Grill: We are acting! We're not just talking like you.]] Let us look at why nothing goes on in this area! What your predecessor said was not much. Mr Bartenstein – I do not know if he is there; yes, he is there – said at the time that he cannot imagine how we can become independent from the gas supplies from Russia. Even in your statements, I can't really discover something that would show me how you imagine it. I can only tell you: There is the possibility of becoming independent. If you look closely at the figures, you can see that we are alone with biomass in Austria to make ourselves independent of the gas supplies. In the end, we would only have to implement this possibility. That's the point! To develop an energy concept in which there is nothing in it is too little. We will not continue to do so, Minister of Economic Affairs. That is why you are required to take concrete measures here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28314	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28335	Mr President. Minister! High house! Before: We have agreed to this amendment in order to achieve a constitutional state with regard to the summary of individual networks to network areas. However, I would like to say quite clearly that from our point of view, beyond this innovation, there is a need for change in the gas industry and in terms of the development plans for gas projects, especially in the light of the recent gas crisis and also of the economic crisis. You know, and it has already been mentioned: We are 70 percent dependent on energy imports, with natural gas being 80 percent – 60 percent of them come from Russia. Solutions à la “Nabucco” do not help us achieve energy independence, they only create other, new dependencies. What the government intends to do in the field of gas are 11 other gas power plants. Investments of €4 billion are planned for this purpose; an additional €1.5 billion will be invested in the necessary pipelines. Unfortunately, this will increase Austria's energy dependence. The gas crisis seems to be a little forgotten here. The so-called Energy Master Plan has also been addressed. Unfortunately, however, the development projects in the field of gas are opposed to this master plan. Mr Minister, you know, we welcome this energy master plan, but I wonder what room we have in the preparation of this master plan if the development of gas power plants already creates facts before that. If we want to take this Master Plan seriously and change it to renewable energy sources – we need an energy mix of different energy sources – and if we want to achieve our climate change objectives and want to create security of supply and, above all, jobs in Austria, then we need to distance ourselves from these gas projects and put the money that is planned for them into renewable energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28373	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28394	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The proposed amendment of the Gas Economic Act is an imaginable simple and unspectacular: It is deleted only one word, the word “can. ” This will hopefully result in a clearer and fairer calculation of connection costs. I would also like to remind you, in connection with the Gas Economic Act, of the eco electricity law which we adopted last year and the Still not in force. This is incomprehensible to me wherever it may be. I believe that it is really high in time that the eco electricity law, in which we have made funds available, will soon enter into force. I hope that will be the case in the next few weeks. Ladies and gentlemen, together, we should really benefit from the breathing break that the economic crisis brings to us, as painful as it may be, thanks to God in the field of climate change. The fact that there are really strong savings in the field of fossil energy is that there is a lower fuel consumption, a reduction of 7 percent, and that there is much lower transport costs and costs, so that we really have some room for use here as the responsible person. And this government is using this time too. It has already been mentioned that we are developing the overall energy plan by 2020 – by the way, with the help of a colleague from the Greens, which is also worth mentioning. Interesting in this context is certainly also the fact that this government is currently implementing the thermal rehabilitation action plan. It is €100 million in addition, which is invested by the government, and this sum is multiplied by private investment. Summary: This government is not talking about actions in the distant future, but is actually acting now! That's, I think, the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28439	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28461	Mr President. Minister! It is certainly undisputed that the slow access to energy is one of the central issues of our society not only in Austria, but throughout Europe and worldwide. While there is a welcome basic consensus in the internal Austrian energy debate, for example, that we distance ourselves from the production of nuclear energy, that the share of renewable energy is increased to 34 percent by 2020, that energy saving measures are promoted, and that modern environmental and climate technologies are used to increase energy efficiency. Safe and durable energy supply and fair energy prices for consumers should also be an essential part of this basic energy policy consensus in Austria. It is not only in economically difficult times that the rising energy prices are suffering from particularly low-income people. The energy-related fixed costs for heating, hot water, cooking and tanking are becoming an enormous financial burden for more and more households. I therefore expect from the ministers Mitterlehner and Berlakovich in the announced “Energiestrategy Austria” also a clear signal towards a basic social supply of energy. I also say that we must finally make competition work, that the liberalisation income must finally be passed on to consumers and that we urgently need effective and noticeable price controls against the extraction, for example before the heating season in the oil sector or long weekends in petrol and diesel. This is an urgent need to put forward a bar. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic social provision of energy should be one of the minimum standards of any social and welfare state. I expect this confession in the “Energiestrategie Österreich” because the question of security of supply is also a social question and a question of distribution justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28497	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28518	Mr President. Federal Minister! The amendment of the Gas Economic Act is necessary and important. However, I should also like to make a few comments on energy policy. I believe that if we want to achieve 34 percent renewable energy by 2020, we will have to use all possibilities. It is now recognised that the potential for savings is first to be used, but biomass also plays a major role. Mr Lugar, as you think you can replace biomass gas, I would like to know about you. I think that belongs to the realm of fantasy. We need solar technology, photovoltaics and wind power, and we have created an eco electricity law that must finally come into force so that we can promote all of this. The great opportunity for Austria lies in the expansion of hydropower. That's where we have the biggest resource. But I do not see any good signs, because Austria has become a power import in recent years. The increase is between 1.7 percent and 3 percent. It would be possible to generate additional 7 billion kilowatt hours by 2020. We could thus create 100 000 jobs. We should do the same, because the expansion of hydropower is really alternate. The alternative would be called atomic current, and we don't want it. The alternative would also be to deal with Russian oligarchs, Caucasian tribal princes or, when it comes to lines, Mrs Mag. Brunner, with puberty republics, and I don't think we all want to do that. That is why we see that we can expand the energy industry. The Water Framework Directive, when it comes to negotiations, only causes us to lose power in the existing power plants. This is simply a matter of energy policy and economic stupidity. We must prevent this and see that we are enormously forcing the expansion of hydropower.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28559	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28580	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The recognition of the Constitutional Court has already been addressed. Security of supply, increasing energy efficiency, increasing the share of sustainable renewable energy are key pillars of forward-looking policies. It is very gratifying – and I would like to mention it in particular – that the companies active in this sector in Austria are very innovative. The key enterprises that invest a lot in research, and the large number of small and medium-sized enterprises which have benefited considerably more from research funding in the last two years, must be encouraged. Benefits These Austrian companies are excellent, and I expect and I am also sure that many important measures will also be taken for export. At the same time, the economic package of the Federal Government was decided – keyword: thermal building renovation. This has been supplemented and reinforced by measures taken by the federal states – I may mention Upper Austria in particular – but also by measures taken by the cities and the municipalities. This creates work on the ground, in the regions for the skilled workers in the local businesses, and has a lasting and positive impact on energy policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28612	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28634	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It may be incomprehensible that this law must be changed because of a word, namely the word “can”; but it is also not incomprehensible again, considering how important the question is – and I am thinking of my circle of acquaintances: How do you feel about the house being heated up? What do you do that the gas actually flows? I believe that we should thank Mr Mitterlehner and his predecessor, Mr Bartenstein, who has negotiated very well, at this point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also grateful that it is possible in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to negotiate and discuss the issue of energy systems of the future and heat. I believe that this law is important, and I hope that everyone will agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28673	There are no more words available. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 156 of the supplements. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is decided by a majority. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this bill, to show it by means of a sign. – The draft law is also adopted by a majority in third reading. [[23:24:34]] 12. Point First reading: Request by Mr Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law on the exercise of social work (428/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28722	We're coming to the 12th. Agenda item. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Hofer. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28749	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In times of economic crisis, we must be very careful not to disadvantage those who really need our help where social measures are concerned. There are many measures that cost money, about which we will be able to argue, such as a value adjustment in the care allowance, the allowances for disabled people and many other measures that burden our budget. And then there are other measures that are purely organisational and do not burden the budget, for example, when it comes to – we have just talked about it – to ensure that traffic signs are affixed at a certain height, so that blind people do not hit their heads and hurt themselves, or to prefer measures for accessibility, which are already planned, so that we can now boost the labour market and now achieve that people working in the construction and construction sector find a way of pursuing their work precisely in these measures for accessibility. An important measure, which is the subject of this first reading today, is a professional law for social workers. You will easily recognize that this draft law, which I have tabled here as an application, is the draft of the association. Without a doubt – and we have already talked about it – all the political groups here in the House also have proposals for amendments to be tabled in the back of the head, amendments which we will, of course, implement in the course of further discussions. It was important to me that, after all these years, we finally reach a decision in Parliament. This is important not only for the professional group concerned, but also for all those who benefit from social work, and that is not very few in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you very cordially to discuss this professional law very objectively, and I hope that we will quickly come to a decision-making process. Once again, I ask you not only to forget that in times like those in which we have to deal with economic difficulties, we are not forgetting those in need of our support in the social state, not only in terms of financial grants, but also in terms of organizational measures for people who, due to disability, because of their age, or because of a disadvantage of other nature, have not been as easy as those who have spent € 10 million in the last few months for their “beautiful” activity, for example at a Constantia Privatbank. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28786	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28807	Mr Hofer has just said that this request submitted by the FPÖ is a professional law for social workers. In my opinion, this is really a matter which should be dealt with in a positive way, especially as the Council of Europe has already Year 2001, i.e. at a time when FPÖ itself was still at the government, recommended that Member States adopt national directives dealing with the principles of effective training, training, practice and working conditions of social workers. Just one thing you have to say: During the time you have set up the Social Ministers, in these six years, nothing has actually moved in this respect. You yourself have said, Mr Hofer, that you have broken down this request, but I think you have forgotten to bear in mind that this is a request already made from the “Year Snow” because if you demand in § 18 that there be a four-year training in the future, then I would just like to point out that there has been baccalaureate studies for a year and that the vocational training can be completed after three years. The fact is that, not least by the ÖGB's initiative in the previous year, a fresh start has been made and that a little bit of momentum has now come into this discussion and is urged that we finally implement it. Only the FPÖ's request has another small hook, namely the clarification of competence, which, as I believe, has not been taken into account, because we cannot implement the law at all, because until now, in accordance with an Article 15a agreement, the countries are responsible for the training of social workers. In other words, we would have to bring about a change in the constitution which empowers the federal government to draw up a uniform profession for the diplomatic social workers. However, since it is such an important matter, I am convinced that once we have clarified the essential conditions such as the necessary constitutional change, we will certainly be able to work together to adopt a five-party proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28850	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28871	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First: This proposal is currently going to be empty because there is no federal competence for this matter. Secondly, In my opinion, the request is concrete from 2002, i.e. that is, it is often obsolete in material provisions and does not correspond to the current legal situation. Thirdly, The concern, of course, is important, and it is important to think about it and negotiate it. However, we should do this in detail in the Committee and include the local authorities involved. So I think that we should move the discussion into the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28904	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28926	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Spindelberger says that in those past years in which we have made the Social Minister, nothing has happened, I must remind him that the social care professions have been given very probably a 15a agreement and a modular training has been developed for diploma care staff, for specialist caregivers and for home caregivers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] It was an Article 15a agreement, because the countries are responsible for training, not the federal government, just as Mr Ridi Steibl mentioned earlier. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that social work should be based on a legal basis and regulated as such in the future. We will have the opportunity in the committees to discuss how we will handle this. In addition, I hope that a five-party agreement will be reached.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28968	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28989	Ladies and gentlemen! A lot has already been said about this. The representative of the FPÖ himself said that this is a proposal from the Austrian Professional Association of Diplomated Social Workers, but, as has already been said, one has forgotten to take in the Constitutional Provision – or perhaps one has not forgotten it, but has done so deliberately. We will certainly need to be improved if we want this law to be discussed here too. I have heard that Minister Hundstorfer and also Secretary of State Marek have already promised that they will support this and have the necessary talks in the political groups on a constitutional provision that is to come. But what you, as I suppose, have not forgotten, but changed, is the gender-friendly language. [[Abg. Weinzinger:... the German language! German is in the majority gender neutral!]] The Austrian Professional Association of Diplomated Social Workers has deliberately chosen this form, and especially in a law relating to a profession in which most of the employees – with a small “i” – are women, it is very strange to be placed here only on the male form. In this regard, I would like to make this comment once again. In addition, all content debates and discussions will follow. – You will get our contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29024	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Application 428/A is assigned to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[23:34:00]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29057	At today's meeting, the self-employed received applications 587/A(E) to 600/A. Questions 1715/J to 1728/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, 22. April, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
