ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6353	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The unreaded parts of the official protocol of the 14th century. Meeting of 26. ==References====External links== He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: On 1 February 2009, the Parliamentary Directorate remained undisputed and undisputed. The Members of Parliament have been reported to be prevented by Mr Binder-Maier, Mr Csörgits, Mr Haberzettl, Mr Praßl and Mr Schüssel. [[09:04:11]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6387	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that MEPs Barbara Riener has waived their mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Mr Werner Amon in her place. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a little more attention! After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I'm looking for Mrs. Mag. Lohfeyer to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6426	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6447	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6463	I warmly welcome the new honourable Member in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[09:05:33]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6490	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Rot-black educational chaos – 100 days standstill government” First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please. [[Abg. Pendl stands at the government bank and speaks to Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] – Mr Pendl, I can ask you to take your place!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6526	Madam President. High house! Mr Bundeskanzler, of course accompanied by Mr Ostermayer's State Secretary! [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Easter is at the door!]] Mr State Secretary, I hope you have already read Teletext for your boss and for your wife Federal Minister. I recommend to all those who are watching now, Teletext page 134 – I hope it's still inside – because that's what it says: ‘Obama requires longer education.’ ‘Teachers should be paid in respect of benefits. Obama criticized that the US students regularly cut off badly in the PISA test. In South Korea there was an average of one month longer education per year. “We can do just as well,” said the President. The challenges of the new century require more time in the classrooms. Good teachers should be better paid, badly retrained. Obama must expect resistance from the powerful teacher union.” Ladies and gentlemen, you can exchange “Obama” and write “Forge” then have Get an Austrian message on this! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] You from the SPÖ are praying to President Obama so much that I thought I would make you happy and quote Obama. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The sad thing about this is that President Obama is going through this – while the Austrian Federal Government has to threaten to resign with the first referendum that it has slowed down. Is this your reform, your reformer, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mrs Bundesminister? A tiny refrain! We've been waiting for one for 100 days, and now a little reflection of two extra hours comes out in classrooms! That is the whole reform, and the Minister of the State must threaten her resignation so that she can carry it out at all! This is a “reformer” of the special class. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Bundesminister, if you are afraid of the teachers' union, please continue to agree with Obama; for the need You're not afraid! This is not a reason for withdrawal. There, your mutilation bills are more dangerous for you, which make you flow into the budget at the expense of the taxpayer. But it's not the teachers' union, ladies and gentlemen! The teachers' union will have to deal with politics. The times when people thought they could do a standing policy over the classrooms are over, Mr President Neugebauer! They're over. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I looked at what teachers are currently distributing at the schools. – I am not saying what schools this is in; I have to protect the children! Today in the early days one has heard on the radio that teachers are already operating politics again about the children, stand-alone policy in their own interest. We also received outraged calls. – There are teachers who say to the students in the class: If that comes what the government wants, you have to stay in school for two hours! [[Call at BZÖ: This is a scandal!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Awesome!]] This is such an insanity of untruth that I would like to say to all parents: Don't let your children get upset, ladies and gentlemen! Tell us, we're going every single case. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The teachers' union is currently required to hold information events on this issue for the teacher's College. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They can do that on the weekend, not in school!]] We have received some messages received to the parents: one from a gymnasium in Vienna, one from a folk school in Lower Austria, another from a folk school in Lower Austria. I could bring you other elaborates like this. It is said that teachers are concerned with ensuring the quality of teaching, and that an information event is necessary to do so. You've guessed right, ladies and gentlemen: This information event will not take place in the afternoon if it is not a class, but in the morning if all students are in school and if they are teaching. And then they are also hypocrites about the quality of teaching! That's hypocrisy to the square! This shows how this whole debate is raised by the teachers' union. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is unfortunate that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have not brought your Vice-Chancellor along with your State Secretary, because he really does not know what he is: Is he now someone to keep his budget in order – or is he supposed to protect the teacher union of his own party? Mr. Neugebauer, what is he now? [[Abg. Grandruck: A good man!]] What did you guess, colleague? What's he gonna do? Do you really want to agree to the Austrian population, which, due to the crisis, currently has to tighten the belt everywhere, that one should discuss with a professional group that has a safe job, which in fact would have to be at work for 40 hours, whether it should be 20 or 22 hours at the workplace and at the workplace? Do you really want to have this discussion with the people, Mr President? Do we want to explain to the trader that this is a professional group with pragmatized, secure jobs, with a safe salary that will discuss whether it should be 22 hours at the job desk instead of 20 hours, should not work in addition, because it claims that it works at home, but should just be at the service shed? Mrs Bundesminister, let's just do it: 40 hours on duty, 40 hours at work – then stop this discussion! – like any other worker in this country too! [[OBJECTIVES]] That's how easy it is. Today, as part of the debate that will take place in the afternoon on this subject, we will present you with a 31-point catalogue of measures, Minister of State! One of the most important measures is that the teacher should have a job in school. [[Abg. Dr. Moser talks to Abg. Scheibner.]] – Mrs. Dr. Moser of the Greens, your green scarf keeps you... [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No!]] You're making state-of-the-art policy in the bank series! You shouldn't be so evocative! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No, my colleague! Come to the schools! Do you come out with a square meter of space,...?]] You're making state-of-the-art policy in the bank series! It is understandable, too, because you, Mrs Moser, are not the only teacher with a green scarf. In the meantime, the teacher profession has become a hord of green ideologe, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is one of the reasons why it has come so far as to believe that, as a social blackmailer, it is better to be lifted up in this country than a working person, who is concerned that there is also a tax benefit in that country, from which you have to pay the others – you and yours alike. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I say right now, ladies and gentlemen, that I always mean the teacher union – that teacher union that no longer considers it reasonable that teachers should stay for two hours in the work they were employed to teach – and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the central accusation that the teachers' union must make. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: I don't know!]] As a father of six children – five of them already in school – I tell you from my own experience that I know a lot of decent, diligent, committed teachers. And I can tell you from almost six years of public prosecutors' work that very many decent, diligent and above all committed teachers then come to the mill of the gear, because they are not wanted by the colleagueship, especially not by party political directors. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have learned such things in these nearly six years, when I was a popular lawyer for the examination of the school sector, that I now want to say to all the visiting teachers: You don't need to file any protest letters with me! You don't need to send me e-mails! I am only convinced of reforms, not protest letters, ladies and gentlemen! I've seen how the whole teacher sector is policing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'll give you an example that a mother sent me because it fits so well with the ÖVP: The mayor of Waidhofen at the Ybbs is HTL teacher with a teaching obligation – of course, you cannot give up your salary! –, the Deputy Mayor of SPÖ is also a teacher with a teaching obligation, the control committeeobmann of the Greens is also a teacher with a teaching obligation and a few privileges he has still dealt with. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: He also teaches!]] And now the point comes: The secretary of the mayor of the ÖVP is of course also teachers, including with full teaching commitment and some privileges which he has negotiated. This is just one of a dozen examples of how, in truth, the teacher's profession has become a political playing field of links and ÖVP, where it is directed and actually adopted on first occasion of the actual activity that one would have to do. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Bundesminister Schmied, you will not avoid a major reform and cutting in the administrative sector. There is no sector – farmers except! – which is so managed as the school sector. We have a national school administration, we have a federal school administration that takes place through the national school councils, we have a school administration for vocational schools, for the music schools a school administration of the municipalities and community associations. We have our own school administration for the agricultural schools, for which the colleges have their own school administration. We have our own school administration for each individual type of school! This is so managed that it is no wonder that today, instead of using teachers in the classroom, they are employed in the school administration. That's grotesk, ladies and gentlemen! That is where you have to put, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, there you are also required! In the countries you also have the say. This also concerns the competence of the countries. And that is why we call for a simplification of the entire administrative system: Teachers' concentration on their teaching profession, and administrative activities are to be carried out by administrative officials. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We ask, ladies and gentlemen, that every teacher in school has a job – that would be an infrastructure programme! The €1.6 billion you have for the next ten years is not enough. For every teacher a job in school, 40 hours in school, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These are core demands we raise on you. This deserves the term reform – and not this referendum, which is why you have already threatened your resignation. I wonder what the next one will be after the resignation: the jump to the Danube? What will be used for Are you threatening next, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6798	For a preliminary opinion, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Forged in word. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6820	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I became a politician, I became a minister – and I decided to do it because I wanted to design something. I would like to improve education in this country for children, for grandchildren, but of course also in the interests of parents, grandparents, teachers and teachers. [[Abg. Scheibner: When do you start with it?]] I would like to contribute to Austria's success in following international developments. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When does that start?]] 30 percent risk students, bad PISA results, economic complaints that the young people in basic skills are too little good to read, write and calculate, rising unemployment, especially among young people with low education, complaints from teachers about labour congestion, overload. These are facts and facts. We have to act, I am convinced of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With tight budget targets – and I have not succeeded in increasing the negotiating budget in two rounds of negotiations – I see the increase in the teaching obligation by two hours, which by the way means an approximation to international developments, that measure that gives us the basis for continuing the education reform determinedly. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then pull it through!]] We have – and I may say: together – started a lot of important projects here in the House in the last two years: smaller classes, small groups, day care, better teacher training and training, better job facilities. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is projects that I cannot implement with a tight budget without simultaneous structural reform. And that is why, from my point of view, my most important employees, teachers and teachers can also be expected to make these two hours more, the shift in working time in teaching as a contribution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll be tomorrow. Talks with the representatives of the trade union. I have already presented my proposals and also the proposals of the Ministry of Finance. I'm open to all other variants. But one thing has to be clear to us: This is no longer a two-hour shift in working time to the children, but it is really a question of whether we continue the reform course, the path of education in Austria, or whether we are catapulting back to 2006. In this sense, it is about the future of our country, and education is a central element. I therefore believe that, together with the budget decision, these structural reforms must also be taken so that we can shape and continue what we have begun. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have already decided on major projects in the field of education in the first hundred days of this Federal Government and have continued: Infrastructure programme, €600 million preferred as part of the economic package, also to improve the jobs of teachers, but also more space for day care and better equipment. The new education, training for all in the teaching profession is very important to me: from the kindergarten teacher to the teacher also in adult education. Minister Hahn and I have set up an expert group. We will have concrete proposals by the end of this year. It is important that teachers have a perspective that they have career opportunities that they also have the opportunity to switch to other fields of work when they can no longer teach. That is why the permeability here is quite, very important. And I've already brought the example: Why, for example, should not a teacher who teaches foreign languages, if he no longer wants to teach, be able to switch to the interpreter? [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Because there are already enough interpreters!]] But that's not because the trainings that do not match the curriculum. We need to improve the quality of education, a very, very important project that we have launched together with the law decision on education standards. This quality is important. Teaching with Matura – also a project that we have decided together here. And I can inform you that 3,000 apprentices are in this programme, so much more than we originally expected. This is very important to help dual training as well. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] One issue that we have often discussed here is the field of vocational schools. We need to expand the capacity there. It is not possible that there are 36 students sitting in the classes. There we will create 8 300 new places until the end of the legislative period. Finally, of course, I am also very pleased that the project New secondary school has come along well. In September 2009, we will teach 20,000 students in the New Middle School at 243 locations. These are elements of a broad reform programme that I would like to implement across party political and stand-alone interests. That's what I stand for, and that's what I like to be Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6936	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6960	Madam President. High house! I think the kids are in the center. It's about the future of our children. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They don't have a school tomorrow!]] In this debate, however, I often lack this focus. There will be a discussion about everything. The children are the most important! And for them is this education system, and for them are our schools. And that is why we are so committed to this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Here I come to a second point, because now in the discussions a kind of – as I should say – “teacher-bashing” can be observed so often. I keep my mind on it – yes, I am against it! It is about involving teachers. And there are many who are just waiting to finally participate in reform projects, many who are disrupting a premeditation by one or another, who oppose and say: It's about our children, we have good ideas, we want to participate in the reform process. And this is to support this mood and these teachers. And the teachers are allies on this path and not opponents. That must be clearly stated once and for all! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But there is some teacher who, as I mean, has a biterl a problem with the centuries. I have looked very closely at the “Salzburger Nachrichten” today, where on page 3 there is an interesting article entitled “School Administration like anno 1781”. This is where ÖVP student Bernd Schilcher, who is very constructively involved in these reform projects, has held a leading position in the ÖVP and rightly determines – and not all that previous speaker Ewald Stadler said is wrong; in this point you are really right – as it is a shift of the different levels. The most valuable thing is that the teacher is in class. And if there has to be changes, then this is in the field of administration, for example, what Mrs Minister has also mentioned in the field of middle management in schools. And then we are invited to think about it and take appropriate steps. Before the meeting began, another employee told me: How was that before? – During the breaks has been excerted, and after 50 minutes the vibration pipe was. Now it's ringing. We do not need to change, because we are running a vote shortly before a vote. That's the rhythm. I think there are really ways to go, such as reducing classes, such as reform in administration. Education policy is also economic policy, and I now hope to hear the words of those who always say they are so active in the economy, for whom the economy is always so important, and for us, and I hope that it is understood that good education is also important for the economy, not only for society, not just for the individual. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ]] That is the crucial question! I'm honest and I say, not everything from the 18th. ==References====External links== Even the old Romans have done many good things. It's not like that again. But once a few centuries have passed, you have to think about how modern this is. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Well, please, Maria Theresia and the school are in themselves a positive example. You only have to work out from the 18th century. I am already in the 21st century. I think we should try to address the matter honestly, especially if we focus on education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have listened very carefully to the statements made by the Minister of Finance and Vice-Presidents, whom he made in the past, where he himself said, education is in the centre, education is important. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] But then you also have to make the money available – you can still praise it – because whoever wants to renew the right to work and pay, who really wants to do something for the future of our children and who wants to shape this entire reform programme, will also need to improve the jobs in schools so that teachers can stay there. And that's not a personal fun, the New Secondary School, but it's also about improving. This is about improving the ranking in future PISA reports, which is about our graduates in Austria, indeed Europe-wide competitive. That's what it's all about! That must be one of the most important points for a government despite economic crisis! Therefore: Thanks to this government! Thank you, Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Thanks to those who participate here that we go this way, even if there is resistance from those who spiritually still in the 18th century. ==References== We're all in 21. As we have reached the century, we should work to ensure that this path can also be taken successfully.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7063	Next, Mr Amon. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7084	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This Federal Government – as well as the coalition parties – has embarked on a very ambitious programme, particularly in the field of education policy; Mrs Federal Minister Schmied said that very clearly in her remarks. – I believe that this ambitious programme is also correct and important because it is decisive for our country in the future. We have launched a large number of educational reforms, and the topic of New Secondary School has already been addressed. The New Secondary School is designed to ensure that each federal state – and in the federal states, once again, different models – try to create a best education system. After a certain period of time, these different models are evaluated, and then it is decided which variant is the best for our children. And here I am quite with you, Mr. Klubobmann Cap: The education system is there for our children and young people – and for no one else! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In accordance with the Government's agreement, we are continuing to expand the afternoon service to discuss the reform of the ageing test with key elements, in order to ensure at least a minimum level. We reduce the maximum number of students to 25 – that is, all the measures that constitute an offensive education policy. But to be successful in education policy in order to remain offensive in education policy requires motivated teachers. This is a very crucial point, ladies and gentlemen, that our teachers are motivated and not discouraged! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What does the message include now when the woman's Minister of Education tells the teachers: You must teach two hours more in the future!Unknown term type: "%s".? What's the message? – Mr Stadler has shown this in a wonderful way, saying: The message is you're actually working too little! [[Call the SPÖ:Well go!]] Here I ask you all, ladies and gentlemen: Are employees motivated in this way?- Oh, my God! Is this the form of social dialogue that is held so high in Austria?- Oh, my God! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am just asking you, ladies and gentlemen, about social democracy, because Mr Faymann, too, explained these days that it does not matter what the trade union means, because it will in all cases come, as announced. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's not all right!]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, and I also ask you as a coalition partner: Should we not, as we do within the Austrian People's Party – we of the ÖVP understand ourselves as a social integration party – seriously there is also a dialogue between employers and employees? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls for representatives of SPÖ]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs Federal Minister Schmied, I would really like to ask you to look for the conversation with the teachers and not send them a new proposal on the media every two days! I really ask you, Mrs Minister: Sit at a table with the teachers and try to develop a common solution! – I would not like to take note of your resignation threat, Mrs Minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] In my opinion, such threats do not achieve anything; I therefore think that they are wrong. I think we should try to implement what we have agreed in the government programme. There is also the talk of a new right of service, and there are many good ideas from the resort side, from the political parties, of course also from the teachership. Let us try to develop such a new right of service, but let us do so together, ladies and gentlemen – and not in confrontation with the teachers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not true that the budget would have been reduced in the classroom. On the contrary! You yourself, Mrs. Schmied, have – we have all been pleased with you – announced that you have been very successful in these budget negotiations, that you have succeeded in achieving a significant increase in your educational budget. That's good, that's right. And also Mr Vice-Chanceller and Minister of Finance Pröll have given a very correct signal, namely to invest more in education. This is absolutely right, ladies and gentlemen, and you yourself, Mrs Schmied, have praised – the media have also done so – that you have been so successful in the budget negotiations, but a few days later you have said that you do not actually get through with this budget. So it is about leaving the reform measures on the one hand – that is a good way, and I am convinced that we can develop the education system very well together – but on the other hand it is also about signaling teachers that they are a very, very important population for us, because finally the future of our country lies in their hands. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7211	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7233	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government here on the government bank! High house! After my previous speakers with so much passion – I think in particular of Klubobmann Cap – it almost surprises me why the reforms do not continue. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Go on!]] The SPÖ is my knowledge in the government, therefore: Where is there now a “reform store” at once? Mr. Cap, there's some problem with your government partner, is there sand in the gearbox somewhere? At any rate – and this is likely to be quite unique in the recent history of Austria – that a minister has exposed the staff of her own department to such a differentiation campaign in the media. One must imagine this once, for example, if the Minister of Justice were to do the same with the judicial guards, the Minister of the Interior would do that with the police or the Finance Minister with his financial officials! – This has given the public the impression that the teachership is both lazy and privileged. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] This impression, which has been raised there, is clearly wrong, because there are teachers who – as it has already been suggested here – are quite committed and motivated and who want to participate in reforms, but who want to know what. Teachers do not want to be the only scapegoat for a missing not only education but generally social policy. It can't be that teachers are being held responsible for all of the things that have been astounded in our society in recent years, yes, decades! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As I am now looking at Mr Neugebauer's applause right now, I must say: Unfortunately, the union must also be blamed. Ms. Schmied, like everyone else, was of course able to predict the reflection of the teacher union. Unfortunately, God’s code is restricted, because besides the words “no” and “streik”, the teacher’s union does not really produce anything special. And so she shows her own representative, the teachers as a whole, a bear service, one that the teachers did not deserve. [[Abg. Amon:... social-democratic trade unionists!]] The whole thing is also being tried by the Minister to sell as a solidarity contribution, as a solidarity contribution in the context of the world economic crisis, according to the motto: There we must stand together; no one escapes! – I am already waiting for the next “Solidar contributions” to be requested in the public service – and not just the teachers. The fact is: Teachers should now be made a scapegoat, although they are certainly not to blame for the world economic crisis. – At least I just hope that something like this may not come because some manager once enjoyed a school system that might not have been optimal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am missing other solidarity contributions, such as the solidarity contributions of those who have actually caused the banking and economic crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where, for example, are solidarity victims asked for by a Mr Ötsch of AUA, by a Mr Huber of the ÖBB or by other managers, or by politicians such as a National Councillor Sobotka, who has spent several hundred million euros in the international financial bubble in Lower Austria?- Oh, my God! There is no solidarity contribution – on the other hand, there should be teachers! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Teachers see it differentiated and say: Yes, we would also like to work two hours longer if we know what it is for! Is it just because the project is to be run through the entire school, now equipped with the signpost New secondary school? “New” always sounds good! Obviously, the left has now been enforced, and the ÖVP seems to have given up its resistance to an overall school, against this level-making school, where it is said: Dear egalitarian rather than elitist!, and where you try to strangle top promotion and level everything down! Could it be that the ÖVP has given up its resistance to this? - No, that can't be. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Meanwhile, even leading ÖVP national leaders join this reputation, but you can of course do one thing: They're screwing up a new sign somewhere on a school building, making opening celebrations, making Sunday speeches – and that's what it's going to be. It's an overall concept. It has already been mentioned: Workplaces. What's missing? Violence in schools – in no way mentioned. Or: The maximum number of students. The question is: How does the share of foreigners or the proportion of children with non-German mother tongues in schools look like, at last, order, so that the level of education for all, namely for those who are to integrate, and for the domestic children, becomes a better one? [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But nothing happens in this regard! Teachers should now enter into a performance for two years. As the last proposal is, they are supposed to provide an advance, and then a reform is made. No, everything has to be on the table together, so that the motivation is right!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7374	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7396	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Madam President. This government is very proud that it does not argue internally that it smiles about problems, but the immense thing for me is that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, on such an important issue as education policy, are expressing your different opinions on the backs of the children, on the backs of dedicated teachers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the one hand, there is a more than immobile finance minister who does not recognize the signs of time: it is necessary to invest in education in times of crisis, rather than delay it again. On the other hand, there is a minister of education, who is supposed to want to reform, but which begins with very unforgivable proposals and very punctual and is ultimately left in the rain by her government partner. There is no one here on the government bank from the ÖVP on this essential issue either. That is why I urge the government as a whole to finally finally confess color in this unscrupulous discussion of two hours more work for teachers and say: If this is a budget improvement, is it a quality improvement, is it a solidarity measure in economically difficult times? If you, Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied, say you're open to all variants, then maybe there'll be another variant, I don't know. For us from the BZÖ, it is only about our children getting the best opportunities for training, for their future, and that they are especially lifelong. That must be our goal! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we say quite clearly: Yes, more time for our children and young people in teaching by teachers, if they use this time, for example, for follow-up and promotion training! Today, as you know, we have a remedial illness: €150 million is spent by parents per year for further assistance! 150 million € for 50,000 students! Coming from different social environments, many parents can no longer afford to do so. That is why we think that these two hours can be used in this area in particular, yes, must be used. We from BZÖ have already introduced a model in Parliament. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We say yes to more time for our children, for our youth, if through an effective investment programme and structural measures the teacher's workplace is really in school, and not only during teaching time, but also for preparation and follow-up! This is not possible at the moment. And if it says 600 million € more for these measures, I wonder: When do these measures finally arrive, when do schools feel that something is changing? We also say yes to more time in teaching with the students when there is a clear separation between school administration and pedagogical work. This means that teachers should be freed from administrative work – and that the system is developing into efficient school management. A study does not suggest that teachers spend about half of their working time with students in Austria. It can't be! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Incredible!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: The discussion about the two hours more work for teachers shows one thing very clearly: that we have real problems in our education system, that it is too expensive and too little efficient! Staff costs are constantly rising, half of the education budget is already being used for personnel. This discussion also shows that the education system is such that too little or too late is integrated – we see it at the language deficits – that it is selected too early and that the school is still an ideological playing field, that it is characterized by blockade, rather than giving answers to the future. Mrs Bundesminister, I ask you not to row back, but really set up reforms! When, if not now? And if you take the right steps, you will have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7472	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7494	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! It is already quite clear what my colleague has said. Amon is here for the best, especially as it was the ÖVP, which has indebted the current situation in the field of education. It was the pale years under Minister Gehrer, there were more than ten years of refusal to teach, there were more than ten years of loss of the education system, which has led to the present situation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hornek: That's white nonsense, what you're saying here!]] As it turns out now and to regret that no reforms are being made, please, Mr Amon, we cannot let this happen to you. We need alliance partners at school, Mr. Klubobmann Cap. – He's just on the phone and can't listen. - We need alliance partners, you're perfectly right. As it is now in the government, Mrs. Minister – and this is the great accusation we are making to you – unfortunately, you do not find any alliance partners. We need them among the students, because this is about this one, please. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need alliance partners among parents, but of course we also need them among teachers at schools. And you, Mr Neugebauer, are the main responsibility for this bad image, which is now drawn by the teachers in the media. You are responsible for this with blockade policy, with “No, no, no!” when it comes to reforms in recent years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: But this is not a reform! Where's a reform?]] Now to demand a solidarity contribution from a professional group, you cannot be serious, Mrs Minister! 10 per cent more working time, so that teachers will pay for the reforms. That can't be! Do doctors also have to give up on 10 percent of income in order to clean up the health system in the future? What about the other professional groups? It was the bankers, it was the soccer on the stock exchanges that caused the current crisis – and not the teachers! That's not how it is! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we hear from you are announcements. Mrs. Minister, I'm attesting to you: You have correctly identified many problems in the education system, and you also point to reform opportunities in many ways. Only: What we hear is announcements that we hear are not real measures! I understand that if the ÖVP rejects the first row without foot, it is the cause of the crisis, the main cause. Mr Pröll mentions this problem as a ‘twine problem’. I've been looking at what that means; you need an etymological dictionary to do it. It is not a “twine problem”, it is a huge problem that we currently have in our education system, and it would be nice if those responsible were to address it. We have a social problem in this school system. Education is still “inherited” in Austria: If parents have only one compulsory education degree, then a child's chance to get to the lower level of the AHS is 10 percent; if parents are academics, this chance is 79 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is now the most selective country in Europe after Germany, which has a school system. That is, the rich will be given on in this country, the poor will be taken. Children from non-privileged shifts have no chance in this school system. We have to put on the lever, we have to do something at last, because the problems are getting more massive, getting bigger! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Minister, I know it is difficult to negotiate with the Minister for Finance. Col. Cap already has the 18th. ==References== I'd like to see you from the 19th century. Cite the 19th century. The Minister of Finance in Denmark has rejected an increase in the education budget. ==References====External links== has come to him and said: We are poor and miserable, but if we get stupid now, we can stop being a state! In this situation we are in Austria, I fear, soon too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7587	Now comes Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7608	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I am really surprised and happy about the course of this debate, because we can definitely say that there is a broad consensus in this House about what it is all about, namely that we agree that we want to create the best opportunities for our children, that in economically difficult times we have the responsibility to ensure that our children get the best foundation and the best equipment for their lives – through our education system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] That is the common responsibility we have! That's where you have to look at the whole bow you're talking about. It's not just about school, it's also very important. It starts in the area of early childhood promotion in front of the school, and it is also about the area after school. It is about promoting early childhood playfully, creating the best conditions in schools, ensuring free access to higher education and bringing about the best conditions of study. Because, from my point of view, the early childhood area is sometimes underestimated, but it is so important, I am particularly happy and I think it is a political milestone that the mayor of Vienna has now announced that in Vienna all children will have free access to the kindergarten. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There are three years already in Carinthia!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Even if you don't like that! I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, because I think this is an important milestone. It is about that all children have a free kindergarten all day long, and that covers the entire area. As so often, Vienna has an important pioneer function, and you will see that the model will prevail. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Objection to ÖVP and BZÖ.]] What I am glad about is that, in the government negotiations, we agreed with Mr Marek that we also want to take an important step across the country, namely the year before the school, to make all children free of charge in order to have the appropriate funding. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: There are already in Carinthia!]] Now on the subject of school. – Here, after many, many, many years of the standstill, the distressing stoppage, the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs has already been mentioned. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Yes, the last three years!]] Ms. Federal Minister Schmied came about two years ago and said: Now we're shredding the sleeves up – break up! Now we improve the situation in schools, we make smaller classes, we make more promotion for the children, more language promotion, better afternoon care! [[Abg. Hornek: How long has the Minister been a minister?]] You've seen it, too, not just me: There's been a real breath in the schools! Teachers and teachers have said: Finally, something goes on! The teachers were those who really want to work with the children. Now the Federal Minister says: We have budgetaryly difficult times, we need the teachers two hours longer, that is, more of their working time, in the classes! – Yes, there we need the teachers! We need the teachers with the children so they can work with them! I admit, I understand the teachers that there's a bit of a horrifying second going on, that they're saying: What's going on? But you all and I know there are many, many very dedicated teachers who say: Let's take a look at this! What's that about? We want the best for our students! However, what I consider to be highly problematic – I must say quite honestly here – is to act as the leaders of the teacher union in recent weeks, and not only to the minister. That's what I'm telling you honestly: I do not always like that, but the minister is a strong woman who stands like a rock in the fire! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What I think is very worrying about acting at the top of the teacher union in the longer term is that they harm their own people with their appearance, because they give the impression that the teachers always block off immediately and say to all No that their attitude is: We're just thinking about ourselves, and the kids are equal to us! But that is not at all true, but by this appearance the perception in the population is produced exactly in this direction. From this point on, therefore, a very honest, urgent appeal to the leaders of the teachers' union: Think of the people who are involved teachers and teachers you have to represent, and lead You constructive negotiations within the meaning of your clients!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7737	Next speaker: Deputies Mag. Cortolezis defeat. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7759	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! There has not been as much unity as there is today in this room on the subject of “past the children to the centre. ” I believe that we should celebrate this day, that we do not have chaos, but orderly political states, and that we are the common goal: How can we best promote our children together? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Education reforms did not begin in 2006, but education reforms began, as some previous speakers, also Klubobmann Cap, said, already under Maria Theresia very sustainable. Federal Minister Gehrer also stood for ten years for numerous educational reforms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Objection to SPÖ and Greens.]] I would therefore like to make the success balance available to you, even if you do not like to hear it. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] – I know that listening is difficult, and the Federal Minister sometimes finds it difficult when it comes to the interests of teachers and teachers. Members should also be a model for our students. Listen wants to be learned! I say to you that the education system is to be measured, among other things, by the importance of lifelong learning. Because, as Mr Kuntzl has already said, education does not end with school, but actually begins at the end of school with lifelong learning, because knowledge is outdated today very quickly. Our education system shows that the Austrians are at the forefront of Europe in terms of lifelong learning. [[Abg. Oils: This is entirely beyond what you say!]] That is, our students discover the curiosity, the joy of learning, the lifelong learning. [[Further calls at Greens and BZÖ.]] I know this is difficult, Mr Stadler, but stick to the rules of listening. In the city, the population was spread out with 81.5% under the age of 18, and 81.5% were made up of individuals and 8.30% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. That is one of the highest values in Europe! And that's where you're talking about chaos!Unknown term type: "%s".? I call the top quality we need to further strengthen and expand! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Our teachers are a better example of listening than you are, Mr. Colleague. A better model. I would like to thank our teachers for not having such a mess in their classroom as we have here in Parliament today. In our classrooms, order is, is speaking together, is taught together – and not the confusion that prevails here in Parliament! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I see that with so many different opinions it is difficult to make the dialogue, because the model is not always available here in Parliament, but listening is necessary to get to know the suggestions of teachers. There are numerous proposals that have been made by me and many other Members in the last few days, and we all agree that our students need more care due to changing circumstances. One of the proposals could also be to increase the lessons from 50 minutes to 55 minutes, which would be tested once. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Wow! This is a “reform ”!]] This increase of 10 minutes was two and a half hours more during the course of a week. This would be a form of solidarity contribution by teachers, who would not go out in terms of savings, but rather more education that would enable more group services, more project work and more presentation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are many proposals, but these proposals cannot be dealt with primarily here in Parliament, but they need a dialogue – a dialogue between all school partners! That is why I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to seek dialogue with all the school partners. Since I had to read today that Federal Chancellor Faymann said what the trade unions say he doesn't care about the trade unions, I have to say: It's about the teachers' representatives in the school partnership! It is about lively school partnership between students, parents and teachers! That's why my appeal is: Create this dialogue with each other – and not with each other! Then we will be able to continue the success course in education that we have initiated.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7892	Now comes Mrs Mag. Inconsistency. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7913	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! A few months after an election campaign, in which you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, have announced as the only political vision on posters “enoughly disputed”, the red-black government is involved in grave struggles, namely, in grave struggles that go to the substance. On the one hand, we have you, Mrs. Minister, who wants to implement a social policy concept, the socialist education dream “total school” – and I am now deliberately saying “total school” – and on the other hand, a party that always has only the interests of its own clients in mind and therefore blocks necessary reforms. It seems, Mrs. Schmied, that you want more “total school” than you did with the ÖVP, or that Finance Minister Pröll said: “total school” already!, but now spends less money than previously agreed. There are many legitimate reform proposals in the field of education, starting from the withdrawal of the controversial hourly cuts under Minister Gehrer, who were carried out on the back of the children and who were then vehemently criticized by the Social Democrats, but which have not been withdrawn by you, Mrs Minister. Further: Improvements in the poor conditions of teachers. – Teachers' working conditions are really difficult, and something has to be done. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or – especially necessary and particularly important for me as a cultural politician – the strengthening of the musical subjects, because the very musical subjects are of enormous importance for the personality formation of young people. Furthermore, the of us liberals for decades – really for decades! – required German knowledge of immigrants. This is a lack, ladies and gentlemen, whose dramatic consequences leave the entire education system financially and structurally out of the joints. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, they are pursuing a single project, namely to increase the working time of teachers. This is a singular measure that can be discussed, but it cannot be considered in isolation, and which, above all, I think, should not be an excuse to introduce the entire school on the back door. But that seems to be your goal. I assume that there was too little money for that, and that is no other way to finance it. Mrs. Minister, while you are always saying that the lion's share of the educational budget is needed to reduce school-class schooling numbers – that would be a good thing! – but there are no exact budget figures yet. And since they are not yet known, it could really be possible that your prestige project “total school” will now be sent on the journey. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals are for a reform in which there are only winners, but no losers. We want to optimize the existing school system and not make the school a social experimentation field. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not know who of you was able to follow the discussion in the Club 2 a few weeks ago. The filmmaker Ruth Beckermann told all serious things that it would be necessary to introduce an overall school as soon as possible in order to protect the children from their alcoholic parents. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This has been a cleanery!]] We reject this kind of reeducation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We demand from the FPÖ not only singular measures, but an overall package that has the best possible education of our youth in mind!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7987	Now comes Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8008	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is incredible how Mrs Kuntzl is bragging about this because the mayor of Vienna, whose advertising with millions of taxpayers supports her, has now come to believe that the Free Kindergarten should come. I can remind you, Mrs Kuntzl, that the BZÖ in Carinthia, under the head of state Jörg Haider, established the Free Kindergarten three years ago. Good morning to Vienna! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. That was the FPÖ! But don't do anything!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There has not yet been the BZÖ!]] But it is quite good, even though the German capital Vienna learns from the “model Carinthia”. - That's the first one. Secondly, Klubobmann Cap said here at the speaker's desk: The most important thing is the children!, and the bird shot down, Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager, who wants to celebrate – she wants to celebrate today! – because she thinks that all the children focus on this. Have you forgotten, Mr Cap and Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager, who are so important to you today as to celebrate what will happen tomorrow at all? Is that from your memory? – I didn’t forget! Then: My daughter goes to the second class of gymnasium and would have been in the first hour tomorrow – listen carefully, Mr. Oillinger! [[Calls for Greens]] – Mathematics schoolwork for which she has prepared herself very well with her classmates. This schoolwork had to be cancelled at first, and now she was transferred to the third lesson yesterday, but the German hour is missing. I ask you: This is “focusing on children, ” when students lose school hours tomorrow, and ultimately lose training? This is not the focus of the child, but the disadvantage of our children is taking place! This will take place tomorrow because government and trade union cannot agree. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] Mrs. Minister, it must stop the school becoming a permanent field of experiment. You've gotten back strength from us in the last few days because you obviously need it. Do not threaten to resign, but do it if you are unable to implement the reforms! Then it'll do another one, but don't threaten to resign! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Come on. They are not afraid of the “concrete” group in the ÖVP trade union and say: After we try it once limited to two years!– We say: It must be over with the permanent school attempt! Pull this two-hour shift where teachers have to stand only two hours longer in the class – no longer work, but have to stand longer in the class – just through! Then you have our support, Mrs. Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In doing so, I am at the “Bedon Group” of the Black Teacher Trade Unions and must say: They really can't be understood! The Supreme Soviet in the Soviet Union was an amalgamation of reform and modernisation compared to the black teachers' unions. That's incredible what's happening there! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Whoever saw the “Report” on TV yesterday, where we thank God, thanks to all these teachers’ trade unions – and there is already a reason why Mr Neugebauer does not speak on this issue today, does not speak for it today; he is not here now, either, because it is embarrassing what his teachers’ trade unions gave of himself in the “Report” yesterday – who could learn what the working time of the teachers looks like. These teachers were asked what the teachers were doing. And the answer was: Teachers have nine weeks of summer holidays, two weeks of Christmas holidays, one and a half weeks of Easter holidays and one week of semester holidays. They come for four months a year. Then came the question: And what are you doing about it? – A teacher trader – I quote him now literally – said in the “Report” yesterday, he admits, there are summer, semester, Easter and Christmas holidays, but what are teachers supposed to do in the classroom when the children are not there? [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] That was a teacher's answer! And now we are fighting for two lessons, two hours more presence of the teachers with the children – at this amount of school holidays! I really wonder – addressed to the “beton group” of the ÖVP teachers –: What does this debate think about two hours more presence of teachers in the classroom at the same wage a worker who is forced to work less through short work and who deserves less so that he can keep his job? What does he think about this discussion? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What does a retailer think about the discussion “two hours more time for teachers ”? What does a small entrepreneur think about this? What does a skilled worker think about this? What do all those who are fighting for the existence of their businesses who are fighting for their jobs? What do these people think when the “skulls of concrete” in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats try to prevent any reform? [[He-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] That's actually a scandal, what the ÖVP is doing here, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is really a shame that we are coming to an educational crisis one from the economic crisis. Mrs Minister, not only economic packages for the economy are important to us, but also an economic package for school and education has been announced once. Mrs. Schmied, carry out your project, you have our support – instead of simply yelling at the teachers, because that is also wrong! Teachers need an adequate environment and, above all, performance-oriented salary systems. Only to demonstrate everything together with the ÖVP and just not to reform anything, that is the wrong way; that is the wood road! Rather, we need a school reform, an educational reform in this country, which really puts the children at the centre of it, and not just alibrities. That's important!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8131	Mr Westenthaler, I give you a call for an order for the expression ‘beton skull’. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For the truth I like to receive an order call!]] [[Abg. Grosz: (in the direction of Bureau) That remains the truth anyway!]] The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8184	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs. Minister! Federal Chancellor! First of all, to the colleague Westenthaler. – Mr Westenthaler, what you are presenting here is really outrageous of any sense. They go here and make teachers scapegoats for something that happens here. This is really the wrong way! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The union!]] It is about improving quality, and this is about structural improvement and not about saying that teachers and teachers are lazy. That's really the last one! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Listen!]] But in total, what we are experiencing here is certainly a “government show” of a special kind. The cuddly course is actually over now, and the upcoming harmony is also over. Or do you wonder that only representatives of the Social Democrats are sitting on the government bank now? The ÖVP says: It's none of our business. – I find that really dramatic in view of the educational situation we have in Austria! But just as dramatic I find the statement of the colleague Cortolezis-Schlager, who says here that she really wants to come back to the Minister Gehrer. Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager, you have not worked in the federal area in recent years, so you have not prevented this, but the ÖVP and the Minister Gehrer have been the preventers of reforming education policy in the last decade! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The ÖVP has prevented such a thing as an overall school, which would actually bring more opportunities for education and, as my colleague Walser has already said, would at last contribute to the fact that in Austria there is not such a strong selection between children of rich and children of poor, but that all have the same opportunities. This has prevented the ÖVP over years! Now it is the Minister of Finance Pröll who prevents this. How did he say it? It's a "twine problem." – The vice chancellor does not know what is actually going on here. At last, more money needs to be invested in education. Now to say: We need a savings program, we can't. Especially in times of crisis, it is necessary to invest in education. Has You still don't get that? You can't just say, We need to save, save, save! – and in addition, Minister Schmied comes with a proposal that is not really useful. If the ÖVP now says to my astonishment – Mr. Amon has done this before – it is the “social integration” party, then I must say: Mr Amon, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the incense belongs to the church, but not to Parliament. Such a self-indulgence is really only more ridiculous. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point: In 2000, the ÖVP was in government. At that time, the Lisbon Strategy was adopted in the European framework. Remember that? Do you know what happened in there? – It said that, in order to exist in international competition, the EU should become the strongest knowledge-based space in the world, by 2010. 2010 is already next year. But what has happened in this regard? - Nothing! Austria has not attached any importance to this approach or the need to invest in education over the years. The Minister Gehrer and the ÖVP are particularly responsible for the fact that there are still so big problems in the field of education that Austria has so badly cut off during the PISA test. Where were you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, because all the years? They were in government, but did not do anything in the field of education. They have not helped to achieve these European objectives. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Austria is cutting off very badly here, and now going here and leaving the Minister Schmied in the rain – and I must say that we Greens do not share the proposals she makes – that is really the last one. How do you want to promote knowledge and education in a world where people only have opportunities when they have education? How do you want? You're doing that? With the slogan: Shorts, Shorts, Shorts, Save, Save, Save!Unknown term type: "%s".? Teachers do not even have their own workplace in school. How's that going? It's not possible! We therefore demand massive investment in education. Only in this way is it possible to actually create the basis for all children in this country to have the same opportunities – whether they have German as their mother tongue or another; whether parents are rich or poor. This means investment in education. And this is necessary in order to exist in this Europe and in this world. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Just as education is an hour's commandment, it is also necessary to contribute to increasing social security in this Europe, so that this Europe is indeed made social. That's what education belongs to. In this context, it is already more than strange and to criticise that a party such as the Social Democratic Party of Austria, whose chairman is now Chancellor, has distanced itself from it even before the election of Europe is made to appoint a Commissioner or a Commissioner in order to make this Europe social. The SPÖ has completely resigned from Europe's policy, and the ÖVP is the "education-restriction party" – so we have a coalition of the preventers. Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8267	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[10:17:01]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8288	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8565	I shall also inform you that the Third Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[10:17:30]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8586	Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the agenda, asked for the self-employed at the same time Amendment No 515/A(E) by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on ‘Education billions’ Part 1: Increase the education budget by €525 million for 2009 and 2010 – to urgently treat budget guarantee for educational reforms. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 526/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8607	I shall also inform you before entering the agenda that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply to Question No 518/J by Mr Mag. Brunner, colleagues and colleagues on the implementation of the Water Framework Directive in relation to the water management plan and the public participation by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8631	The debate on points 1 to 6, 7 to 10, 11 to 13, 16 and 17, 21 to 24 and 28 and 29 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8655	The Presidential Conference reached the following consensus: A day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 122 minutes, Free 108 minutes as well as BZÖ and greens per 95 minutes. For the time of television transmission from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., the following speaking time agreement was reached: a round of speakers per group with 10 minutes each, Minister of Finance 15 minutes, a round of speakers per group with 6 minutes each, State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance 7 minutes, a round of speakers per group with 5 minutes each, a round of speakers with 4 minutes each. Since no further agreement has been reached here, I suggest that each round of speakers should start with the counter-voicer or the contra-redner, otherwise the order will not appear logical. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then I'll make that a decision. The President-in-Office of the Presidency will distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups before the beginning of the last round – after consultation with the club presidents – in the way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television season. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television broadcast. We shall come to the vote. I will vote on the part that I have now read plus that part that each round of speakers will start with a contra-relationer/contra-redner. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:20:39]] 1. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (54 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Income Tax Act 1988 – Tax Reform Act 2009 (StRefG 2009) (124 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 5/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in relation to the deductibility of donations (125 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 20/A by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Income Tax Act 1988 (126 d.a.) 4. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 76/A by Mr Josef Bucher, Members of Parliament, on a federal law amending the Income Act 1988 (127 d.a.) 5. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 203/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in relation to tax relief of low-consumption passenger cars (128 d.e.c.) 6. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 282/A(E) by Mrs Lutz Weinzinger, Members and colleagues on the economic package family (129 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8777	We come to points 1 to 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak with a speaking time of 10 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8808	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House and at home in front of the TV screens! Today, when we talk about the tax reform, we do not miss out on the financial and economic crisis, which is essentially also a banking crisis. The crisis that we have experienced in recent weeks and months is becoming more and more frightening. This is also confirmed by international media. ==References== In March, the respected “Financial Times Germany” wrote that the capital market fears the pleite of Austria. It literally means: ‘In Europe, in addition to Greece, only Iceland and Ireland are considered more risky.’ And the Financial Times also mentions the reason for it to write – I quote –: ‘Austria’s problem: The country, like no other, focused on the growth of Eastern Europe. The banks lent loans over EUR 201 billion – 71 percent of the Austrian gross domestic product. In the course of the crisis, however, Eastern Europe is in decline, even financially sound countries such as Poland face a loss of trust.” – Quotes. It also makes no use of the fact that over the last few weeks, Mr. Finanzminister – at the Nosenring of Mr. Conrad – has been traveling for the Giebelkreuz and also for various banks across Europe and has brought one basket to another. [[Ironic cheerfulness of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] You have brought yourself one basket after another, Minister of Finance, probably you will also want to start a basket shop soon, because you do not know what to do with the many baskets you have received in recent weeks. But there are, of course, the mistakes of the past. Now it is also time for the EU's rapid enlargement to take place in the way it is. They have decided against the votes of the FPÖ in this House! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now it is a question of having spent years pretending that the former eastern block was the land in which milk and honey flow and soon there are rusty conditions – these were spoken by you. Not only the international financial crisis, but also the unblemished speculation we have to critically light up and especially condemn; in particular, the many local banks that have contributed to the fact that we are in this situation today – they have brought us into this situation. And the Federal Government has grumbled and cheered and still does not want to ensure control mechanisms for the Austrian banks, namely control mechanisms, as they should be, that the Court of Auditors at last can control the balance sheets of Austrian banks, because the FMA, the financial market supervision, has failed there; this must also be noted openly. Show the reality – Mr Commissioner stupidly, because you critically told me yesterday about the APA, I would be a little sicker – to put facts on the table and not to speak things up, that is the duty of a decent policy. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: All right!]] They are constantly trying to continue the head-in-the-sand policy! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Not at all!]] That must be done! We finally have to put reality on the table and give the people pure wine – but not what you do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The impact of the financial crisis on the real economy in our country is getting stronger. Do you call this “sick - hearted ”? This has nothing to do with sick people, that we unfortunately have to experience this reality, that the effects are increasingly negative also on the Austrian economy, and that the economic forecasts need to be permanently revised downwards at shorter intervals. That's the reality, don't say sorry about that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Finally take reality seriously, and finally take note of the seriousness of the situation! It is important to recognize reality. If healthy companies are already in the situation today, if it belongs to everyday life, that healthy companies already feel this crisis and cancel workers and employees, then this is a dramatic development. And if economic researchers assume that even by the end of the year there is a doubling of the number of unemployed in Austria – with up to 600,000 unemployed people expecting economic researchers – this is a dramatic development that needs to be countered. We must also recognise that this would further burden the public budget. This may only cost the government a laugh, if you cuddle behind me cheerfully, but with 600,000 unemployed people, I say, there is no time to cuddle, there is a need for action. This tax reform, which you are setting, is unfortunately a reflection. You didn't recognize the situation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 100 000 unemployed people cost public budgets around €2.5 billion more, says an economic rule, because in addition to the money that has to be spent on the unemployed, unemployment benefit, there are, of course, also losses in taxes and social security contributions. That is to say, we must counter this. Now it must be done! Get down with the taxes and get up with the discharge, that's strong! Don't clear, but knocking's in demand. And that is exactly what we are calling for today with our liberal package. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But what does the government do? – It presents us with a referendum that fits at most after Minimundus, but does not meet this crisis appropriately; a referendum that will tell the Austrian average citizen and bring 20 € per month, i.e. 5 € per week. A fabulous discharge for the average citizen: 5 € per week! An incredible "total" discharge for the Austrian population, a tax-policy grandeur of this government and the Minister of Finance. As the great reformer, you will probably go into history, and in decades you will talk about the “Fünfer-Josef” in Austria, the 5 € per week that you now save on average from the Austrian. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I really have to say: a great "performance" – but a big reform is certainly not that! There are, of course, the discharge steps you have defined for the families. That is to welcome, no question, one finally realizes that one has to do something in the area of families – but also not correctly. They are actually doing what has been missed in recent years. In recent years, since 2003, family benefits have not been valorized, and the same is true now. But a discharge in the real sense for families does not represent that. Furthermore, due to the planned tax deductibility of out-of-family childcare, even now existing tax discrimination is continued on those families who care for their children at home. And that's a wrong step. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would be better to introduce a higher child allowance so that all families have something of it. That means you'll continue to discriminate here. Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Finanzminister, this referendum is like a drop on a glowing hot stone – and you are trying to present it to people as a waterfall. Unfortunately, that is not the reality. The financial crisis is not going to deal with you with this referendum! In fact, drive the smaller and medium-sized companies further towards the problem, towards the ruin and the Austrians into the poverty trap! I say this quite openly: Today, over 1.3 million Austrians already live on the poverty line, and these are diligent people. More and more diligent people ask themselves the question: Do we live to work? - We don't live to work. We're working to live. And when we work, we want to live well. If we provide services, we have a right to ensure that there is a corresponding reward. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We should therefore set up fiscal policy in the same way. 3 billion € you want to spend for a tax reform, a referendum that just covers the cold progression of the last few years in the amount of 2 billion €. That's the reality! In our opinion, a discharge package of at least €6.5 billion to €7 billion would now be necessary; a real tariff reduction, namely a reduction of the lowest tax rate to 25 percent, the average tax rate to 37 to 40 percent, and the maximum tax rate to 45 percent, as well as a further increase in the progression level. That would be necessary. This resulted in a real relief for service providers in Austria. However, they have so far refused to do something about this. But you do not do anything against the cold progression, except the cold smile of Mr. Federal Chancellor, with whom he tries to smile away all the problems we find in Austria today. Unfortunately, they are not willing to make finally necessary decisions. I also miss decisions in strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises. I miss the abolition of the credit contract fee. I miss the abolition of social tax. I miss a proper pay-side reduction. I miss the introduction of the Finnish model, but also the introduction of a real investment advantage. Nothing of it is done! All these demands were already the content of requests for freedom in this House, and you have so far rejected everything. They are not even willing to engage in the field of privileged people when it comes to finally changing politicians and senior and senior officials in this Republic. A reduction in the salaries of politicians and the 2 000 highest officials in Austria would be necessary, namely by 4 per cent, in order to finally ensure a solidarity contribution from them. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We shall also make this request today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My final sentence: The only difference between the Cabinet Gusenbauer and your present is that: At that time, you took off your hair, today you're putting each other over the hair, but it's still going on.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8942	I should like to invite the honourable Members and ask them to keep time – that was about 1 minute now – otherwise the speaking time will not take place. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You need to be careful when someone talks about it!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You didn't watch! You looked away!]] - We have the light to do that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (new to Bureau) You looked away and didn't watch! A little more attention!]] Mr Klubobmann's head is next spoken. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9008	Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We then debate and decide on a tax reform of almost €4 billion in tax relief. – Many other countries would be happy if they could at this time carry out such a discharge of taxpayers and would do so in their own Parliament. In some other countries it is only now that such measures are being discussed. We will decide today and every Austrian taxpayer and every Austrian paying tax will benefit from it, not to the extent that you have said, Mr Strache, but in the order of approximately €400 to €1 350 a year – in Schilling, so that the small amounts of the euro do not go down, up to 20 000 s per year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: 5 € a week!]] Mr. Strache, it seems to be a popular game at the moment to throw billions of money around here, but this alone does not deal with a crisis, but perhaps even with the next crisis. A wish concert now to present here, namely what you miss everything you could do anything else is simple. I, too, think of some of the things I still wish for over time, but now it is important that we pay particular attention to what is affecting the economy in the crisis, what is working in the companies and what would be nice if we had it as well. [[Abg. I'll put it into practice. Turn it over!]] But we have to be able to pay and pay for everything at the end of the day, otherwise it will pay our children. [[Abg. Street: Who pays for unemployment?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the tax and tax system of a country also bears something like a witness, namely a certificate on political priorities. Finally, the level of a country's tax and tax rate is also an expression of the state's influence on the freedom of people and citizens. Today, as I have said, we are deciding to cut a great deal of taxation. We are thus reducing state intervention in the freedom of citizens, and we are setting political priorities: Because the families are so important to us, with €500 million we set a relief focus for families with children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: The cold progression cover!]] Because the entrepreneurship is so important to us, we focus on the relief of small and medium-sized enterprises with the free amount for invested profits – this also benefits the economy at the same time. [[Abg. Strache: Take a look at how many small and medium-sized companies do not make any more profits!]] And because fairness is also so important to the performance providers – whether self-employed or self-employed – we lower the wage and income tax and thus relieve precisely those who finance our community with their taxes. So we relieve those who actually pay taxes in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Breach: Do you know how many SMEs do not make profits?]] One more thing: Because the solidarity of our citizens is also so important to us, with the tax deductibility for donations, both for charitable purposes and for aid organisations, we make this solidarity visible and ultimately reward them in our tax system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 300 000 unemployed, 30 000 in addition to short-time work, are affected and forced to act. – We act, we strengthen the economy and we help people with our actions. We are facing this crisis with a rescue package for the banks, not because of the bank managers, but because we are securing the deposits to the savers and because we want to ensure the financing of the economy and thus, finally, also to secure jobs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ]] We are facing the crisis with two economic packages – this is necessary in order to offset the dramatic global economic downturn and thus secure jobs. We are meeting the crisis with a flexibilization of short work – this is also necessary in order to secure jobs. We are meeting the crisis, as I have said, with a tax-payer relief – this is also necessary to strengthen purchasing power so that people can keep more in their wallet, which they can spend and thus revive the economy. In this context, the tax reform package, which can be absolutely seen in its dimension and also in its balance, is a personal word, even if the addressee is not in his place right now: We have negotiated this tax reform in the framework of coalition negotiations. One who made these negotiations significant together with Chancellor Faymann and Minister of Finance Pröll at the time is no longer in the spotlight, but is normally among us. I would like to thank him very much at this point, at the time Finance Minister Willi Molterer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Thank you again!]] Willi Molterer has done exactly what I said before, namely in an impressive way with this tax reform, with the design of the tax system of political content control. Ladies and gentlemen, but let's not think about it: The crisis will worsen. It's perfect, Mr. Strache! We read and hear negative messages every day. What's the result? – decreases in tax revenue, at the same time increased expenditure and also increased risks. Let's not deny that. We take considerable risks with the necessary packages that we have chained. It's about the substance. This clearly relates to the substance and to the limit of the taxability of the State budget. We have seen foreign newspapers bring horror reports – unfortunately, as you have to see, partly controlled from Austria. Mr Kogler, you could have given yourself some words in the “level”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These tendents, not to say false reports, pose a threat to the credit quality of our country. This clearly raises the cost of financing our debts, which we unfortunately have, and this, unfortunately, adds to the existing problem. What we need, ladies and gentlemen, also Mr Kogler, are not such started reports. What we need is a realistic view of the Austrian situation. And Austria is much better there than other countries. We do not need such tendent reports, which only harm us abroad and ultimately have an impact on our own country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you mean the Androsch?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Read meaningfully, then speak!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the Minister of Finance is taking a lot of money to deal with this crisis. But it is also true that on the other hand, he keeps the ministries to save in their own responsibilities. And here I am with all those who said this at the educational debate earlier, namely those who called after reforms. I think it would be wrong if we were already stopped to save, to do so with the lawn mower method, so beyond all expenditure positions. Especially now is the time to prepare reforms in two directions: on the one hand, to improve the quality of public services, but on the other hand, it must not, of course, be prohibited to increase the efficiency of how we provide our services, and thus to save them – not to save on quality, but to increase efficiency in the way we provide our services. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are doing exactly the right thing today with a tax relief. We relieve families, we relieve workers and companies. If we do not speak of this tax reform as bad or small, we will decide together! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When does it come?]] Let's master the crisis together! Let us strengthen the economy and help people in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9228	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9249	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I take up the final sentence of my colleague's head, who said: If we master the future, we will deal responsibly with the taxpayers' money! – Yes, that’s also the putting in of the opposition. We also feel obliged to do so. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Accept!]] The speeches, including those of the opposition, are going in this direction. But don't make us responsible for how Austria is often presented in the foreign media! Look You are careful to see who is quoted in the foreign media! They have brought this quote out of the “spiegel. ” Who's the name of all of them? – A certain Mr Androsch is mentioned there, a certain Mr Androsch, who is, after all, the economic advisor of the Federal Chancellor, who makes Austria poor abroad, who questions the credit quality of Austria, ladies and gentlemen. This is not responsible for dealing with the Republic and with the taxpayers' money. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Always tell the full truth about it! We from the opposition, after my assessment, deal very prudently with criticism. We make constructive proposals, we do not make Austria bad and we are also very careful with the necessary responsibility, from the opposition, with all the proposals of the other opposition parties, but also with the proposals of the government parties. Don't make us this accusation, don't think we're guilty that we're making Austria bad! But, of course, we have our criticisms when it comes to saying a lot about the economic crisis or the mastering of the economic crisis that you have been praying for a tax reform here for many, many months now – always the same. I would remind you that the tax reform that we are deciding here today – better to say, you decide it without the votes of the opposition – has been negotiated for five months. [[Abg. Krainer: That's a mistake!]] There are mountains moving and there are cried out and a little mouse was born, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Only €2.2 billion in relief in view of the largest economic crisis in the Second Republic, where you have taken €3 billion more in taxes over the last three years – VAT, corporate tax and wage and income tax. 3 billion € have decreased the Austrians per year and now they get back 2.2 billion € per year. This is not a great reform, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make this presentation of the APA very close, because you are always talking about the ‘greatest discharge in the Second Republic’. [[The speaker shows a bar chart.]] – “Great” for the workers in our country! Too revolutionary, Mr Cap! You will find an answer anyway. The APA says, for example, that up to €12 000 income is zero relief. There's a black zero. These people have nothing to do with this tax reform. [[Abg. Krainer: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. That's right!]] These are at least 2.5 million Austrians. [[Abg. Krainer: That's wrong!]] – The APA misquoted that? The next 2.5 million Austrians receive a discharge of just 49 € per month. This is supposed to be “the biggest tax relief in the Second Republic” – €49 a month? At the same time, however, take away €400 million from the communities! Do you know what the reverse will be? - That's very logical. The municipalities will raise the fees again: the garbage charge, the sewerage fee, the water tax. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In Vienna it starts already!]] All this will be raised again and the 49 € that you put into one bag will be pulled out of the other bag again. That's your redistributive policy you're running. This is deception of the taxpayer, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You can see very precisely where you are relief from using this illustration. Mr. Kopf, you're right with €1,317. This concerns the Director-General, who deserves €200 000. [[Abg. Head: You know exactly what amount that takes!]] That's the one you've been looking at. But there's nothing up there. [[Abg. Blow: Gross? What remains net?]] Anyone who earns 15 000 € gross per year has just 41 € more in the bag. This is your tax discharge, ladies and gentlemen. But there are many recognized experts – I don't even have to quote from opposition circles – who criticize and question this very much – like Mr Androsch, for example, who said that this can only be a first little hipper, a small step. He says that this federal government lives by the principle of hope. - That's all I've got to say. [[Abg. Head: First you criticize him, now...!]] Or: Your advisory institution, the Wifo. Mr Aiginger says that a tax reform is now needed in the economic downturn phase and in the economic depression in which we are located. – Extensive tax relief would be the right measure to provide the economy with appropriate assistance. Or: Mr. Schützenhofer. I don't even have to quote from opposition circles now, but your own party members from the ÖVP. Mr. Schützhofer, for example, says that the volume is far too low, 2.2 billion euros are far too low. [[Abg. Grosz: He doesn't bring anything together even in the Styria!]] Expected Please do not, if in your ranks such a thing is said that the opposition can agree! If you yourself criticize everything and do not even agree with those proposals made by the government, then the opposition cannot give its consent either. Much better for taxpayers, far more suitable for the economy, it would be if we made a really comprehensive, structurally simple tax reform and not a referendum – a comprehensive reform, which really makes changes at the foundations of the tax concept in Austria, where one does not just turn on the tax screws. You just turned on two control screws. You would have completed this reform in half an hour, but you will need five months to do so, Minister of Finance. You can't be serious. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] At a time when we have an economic crisis in Austria and you are jumping in for the banks, for the banks all over Europe, trying to scratch these €100 billion together to save them, and not saying that the taxpayer is also responsible for it, not to say that the taxpayer is also... – Now be careful, I give you an example, Mr. Finanzminister! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: You decided!]] Go You're going to the First Bank today and you're taking a loan! You have to pay 0.75 percent liquidity supplement for a loan in the First Bank, ladies and gentlemen. This is the taxpayer's contribution to the bank rescue package. It must not be that the taxpayer returns to the handcushion in the final effect. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For the banks, yes – you explain this to the workers! In Carinthia you have already received an answer! Explain You have this once: 100 billion € are for the banks, for taxpayers just a discharge of 2.2 billion €. This relationship is not in agreement, ladies and gentlemen. You should finally have that in mind! [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] If you are not really going to take these reform steps at last, which you have been talking about for weeks and months, instead of resuming the AUA €500 million, instead of making the ÖBB $600 million speculate – you are finally looking to clean up the health insurance system in Austria without taking the cash registers into account. Finally, put up with the reforms! In the administration and state reform, take steps at last! And today, in the educational reform, finally put the appropriate levers in motion! These are all the reform measures you need, because otherwise you will not get along with the budget, Minister of Finance. That's obvious! They now pay €2.2 billion. That's right, but it's far too little. On the other hand, you have to see that you are finally taking care to ensure that the deficit does not become too high, because otherwise liquidity, the credit quality of Austria will suffer even more, the economic location, the competitive location of Austria will suffer. And in the final effect, the taxpayer will have to pay everything again, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9471	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, is now speaking. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9503	Madam President. High house! That is what I am going to put right, because my previous speaker has already worked with false information. These 100 billions are not 100 billions that have just been “delivered” to the banks but have been used up to now in my knowledge of € 1.8 billion. Banks have to pay 8 percent interest, which must repay this. This is a liability framework. [[Abg. Booker: Who's liable?]] Do you know what your Carinthian Hypo Alpe-Adria model is? Your model Carinthia is also not a model in the banking sector! To do this, you should take a slightly clearer position. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Is that a cuckoo?]] I'll tell you something. If you want to be taken seriously, it is just too little if you stand out here and so to speak, celebrate criticism as a political sentence. [[Abg. Scheibner: We have known that for 20 years, how...!]] This does not help anyone, but the question is simple and simple: What's your concept? [[Abg. Strache: Since 2005 we have known this!]] What do you put on the table as an alternative? – You don’t think anything! You come here, but you don't think about the citizens at all! They sa-gen, it's all too slow, too late – the whole calender who doesn't help anyone. [[Abg. Strache: Since 2005 there are the applications of the opposition you negate!]] There's something on the table now! There is something on the table, namely that there is a tariff relief in the order of €2.3 billion. And that goes, please, to 88 percent of people with incomes up to €4,000. This is the case for which this tax relief takes place. 88 percent! 9 percent affect those who have income from €4,000 to €6,000, and only 3 percent go on income over €6,000, and they are covered. [[Abg. Grosz: He has to read this because he does not believe it himself!]] So this is socially balanced, actually has a reason for distribution and brings something to citizens. Klubobmann's head was right: Not every country can afford to make a tax reform in this order. Not every country can afford to carry out this tax relief. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] And the tariff relief takes place earlier, because the initial consideration was that it was only coming in early 2010, but because of our pressure it takes place earlier. That is also reasonable, because this helps the economy. In any case, this helps to ensure that the economy in Austria is perhaps able to boost and also to do something in the field of job security. One last sentence still to my previous speaker; I do not have too much speaking time. To the model Carinthia, which is constantly propagated today: You know, your honeymoon in the elections and the polls will end when you have to repay the debt you owe in Carinthia. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Someday the day will come! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One of the entrepreneurs among you knows: The day comes when debt must be repaid. [[Abg. Strache: You've never paid back debts!]] [[Abg. May. Darmann: If you don't know about the model in Carinthia,...!]] That's why this day will also come for you, and then you must finally give the Carinthians pure wine, which is really the consequences of your policy. [[Call the BZÖ:Full tube next to it!]] That's what I'm telling you: You'll feel that yourself. I think it's fair to say that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When a speaker comes to the speaker’s desk from BZÖ and talks about “revokes”, I have to say: Look, unfortunately, I still remember that you were once in the government. [[Abg. Grosz: What does “leader ” mean?]] I would rather push it away, I say quite honestly, but as for your government participation, every Austrian and every Austrian was a lemon that you began to express. [[Abg. Grosz: BAWAG!]] That was the policy you made at the time: Sparity policy, saving policy, expressing, expressing. That's it! [[Abg. May. Darmann: Childcare money!]] Please don't remind the Austrians! That was a terrible time. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Go, go!]] In any case, they have a massive responsibility to bear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: finishing new, child care money!]] – Sure, you can't talk about that with intermediate calls. But I'll tell you something more because it's just 100 days – you should celebrate! [[Abg. Strache: Also a mogel pack! Nothing done since 2007!]] –: What it's all about now is the fight for every job. This is absolutely crucial, and this will be very important to our spectators, because money is being made available for it. It is not only about boosting the economy that there is more money in the wallet – no, it is also about fighting for jobs, extending the short-term work scheme to 18 months and extending the work foundations and the skills opportunities during short-time work! These are all measures to counter the economic crisis and its impact. 1 billion € is provided for the labour market alone, but there is nevertheless a relief from the families: Children's deposits for all children are raised from € 610 to € 700. In the future, a free amount of € 220 per child can be deducted from the tax. Professional childcare is of an amount of € 2 000 per year and up to the age of 10. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. And, as has been said today, the introduction of the Free Kindergarten for children from zero to six years comes in Vienna. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: There already is!]] [[Abg. The FPÖ has been calling for this for ten years now!]] You can't wipe that off the table. These are important measures that will be put in place – responsibly, considerately, financially available to citizens, important steps for children. [[Abg. Strache: I remember what Häupl said when FPÖ applied for the free kindergarten in Vienna!]] In the field of education, as you have had to know today, everything is being done, because, of course, ongoing schools need to be expanded. The school structure needs to be improved. Of course, lower schooling peaks cost more money. And of course, in order to finally achieve a more positive result in the PISA study, this qualification offensive at all levels – for the students, but also for teachers – is an essential aspect. The New Secondary School and the many other projects are also a contribution to making the graduates more competitive in both the national and the international labour market. This also applies to the expansion of German teaching, if German is the second language, which is very important for integration. Money must also be taken into account for this purpose. These are, please, measures that are very crucial! However, the investments to boost the economy – such as the SMEs to support small and medium-sized enterprises – are also central. I'll tell you something else to the banks: Of course, the requirement is that, if, for example, small and medium-sized enterprises – but not just them – apply for loans, banks are also obliged to grant them when public money comes. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where?]] And this public money is also controlled by financial market supervision and by the National Bank. So that's not the way you always do, that anyone gets 100 billion euros. [[Abg. Street: Where was the financial market supervision? She slept!]] That's absurd! This is an argument that, in reality, should only insecure people and which does not correspond to the truth. That's why it's very important: SMEs to support small and medium-sized enterprises; 2. The economic package amounting to € 1.9 billion; Advanced construction projects of the federal government amounting to € 850 million, as mentioned earlier: Universities and schools. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How many unemployed are there at this time?]] € 570 million will be provided for investment incentives for companies, € 50 million for research. And if I say infrastructure, this is the new construction of railway stations, railways and roads, for which Doris Bures, in particular, is very active as an infrastructure minister. That's what I'm telling you: These are measures that directly affect citizens. Everything is really being done here to improve infrastructure in order to improve education. [[Abg. Bucher: What are you doing for the workers?]] There's the hackler rule. We have increased pensions by 3.4 percent – something that all of us have done together – we have abolished the tuition fees – and we have also done so together – and we have also stayed there: [[Abg. Strache: The belly shop of the red illusions!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is a belly shop of the red illusions you present here!]] The tuition fees have been abolished! These are all the measures that will actually boost the economy, which will work against the economic crisis, but which at the same time should further promote the sustainability of Austria. And that is exactly what is to be done in conjunction with the social and health system, where money is also pumped into it and is to be, without losing the performance, the quality of the performance. Now I've listed this to you. [[Abg. Strache: You have presented your red belly shop of illusions! But you don't live in reality!]] What did you actually have to say today? - Nothing! I've been told here, I always listen to the same calender here, that this is all too little, too late. What's your proposal? Say it! You have to do the homework now. Come out and say: What's your proposal? [[Abg. Strache: You've known him since 2006!]] What would happen? You're doing different? What would happen? Are you doing better? [[Abg. These tax reductions have been in place since 2006, please!]] How would you finance it? What volume would you do with? – The citizens, the spectators and spectators cannot imagine what the opposition parties want in this economic crisis, because they do not suggest anything. [[Abg. Strache: Since 2006, these tax reductions have been made, please!]] That's the truth we're standing in front of now. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, you still have time: The TV broadcast takes another two hours. For those who still want to exercise this patience: The opposition has the chance to use this time. Your Members can come to the speaker's desk here. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] – Short calls are not art. They're not under any quality control. That's too short. It's not a lot of brains. Just stand out here and say, please: What's your proposal? – So far, I haven't heard of it. I hope that's gonna happen later. [[Abg. Strache: Read the opposition applications! Then you would have failed, Mr. Cap!]] In any case, we have actually used a lot of money, a lot of measures to do the right thing for the Austrians. And if you know better, say it! So far, we haven't heard anything from you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9993	Mr Klubobmann Cap, for this last – or almost last – sentence: “That doesn’t belong to much brain,” I give you a call for order. Next, Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10023	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The contribution of Klubobmann Cap probably did not point out this clearly now, but basically we are discussing today the “tax reform project” – under the lead mark – of the Federal Government. And it's worth taking a few sober glances on it or making some sober comments on this project. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Before: Superlatives are not appropriate for this tax reform in Weitem. And a lot of good is not to be found in me. However, I would like to make the positive point: With this tax reform, this project will end a privilege debate, namely the tax advantage of Stock Options – this is a tax advantage of manager additional income. It's being abolished. That is good, and we also confess that this was a right and important measure. We've called for it long enough. - That's positive. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Krainer.]] However: One cannot speak of a tax reform in the very sense of the word, namely the word “reform”. It is essentially a tariff reduction of €2.3 billion and an additional family package of €500 million. I think that the times, i.e. the crisis developments in the financial markets and then in the real economy, allow only two questions for an Austrian Parliament: What contribution does this tax reform make to safeguarding jobs, preventing unemployment, and what contribution does it make to the economy? And: What contribution does this tax reform make to close also the far-reaching line between the poor and the rich in Austria? – These are the two major test points by which you need to check this “reform project” – under quotation marks. And these two tests do not exist the project! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Minister for Social Affairs presented a report a few weeks ago – thank you very much, but the content is terrifying! The content is alarming, and it concerns the social situation in Austria, the separation between the poor and the rich. We now have the situation that the richest promenade in Austria – these are a few thousand people – has more wealth than half of the Austrian population. This is a dramatic finding, and one would like to think that a tax reform – like many economics scientists, but also experts from all interest groups have repeatedly called for – is also accompanied by a structural reform, namely that the labour factor, which relieves work and the unemployed income – namely income on wealth. In this respect, Austria is one of the worst countries in the OECD comparison. One would like to say that this has arrived in some form on the government bank. - Please don't! While the Social Minister in his time as a trade union president has pointed out with all clarity that a tax reform without additional property taxes would not be the cornerstone of a tax reform in Austria, he has largely done this as a social minister and, from my point of view, cannot even remember it, for I do not know that one would have been committed to restricting this incredible sheer in the negotiations. On the contrary, it's about very different things. The sad finding is that most of the people who urgently need it cannot be relieved because they do not trust to address an essential structural question, namely the low taxation – or de facto Gar-non-tax – of assets in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The crisis is at the expense of lower incomes – that is the finding that, I believe, all share. What has not yet been said, but what you have to say, is: 2.5 million people in Austria – those with the lowest incomes, with the lowest incomes – will not receive a single cent from this tax reform. You won't get a single cent! – That is true, Mr. Finanzminister. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] They always point out that, last year, €300 million has been made available to these people through the reduction of social security contributions, specifically unemployment insurance contributions. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Exactly!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Exactly!]] But I can still ask you a critical question – you can then answer them later –: The top 10 percent will receive €500 million, and the lowest 2.5 million people want to feed you with € 300 million. [[Abg. Krainer: But that's not true! That's wrong!]] Does that not seem a bit unbalanced, especially in the light of the fact that the crisis – which is actually noticeable every day – is at the expense of lower incomes? – That is the case! [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true, please! That's wrong!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true!]] You have also remained guilty of an answer, namely: When does the hour of truth come? Any reduction in tariffs must also be refinanced in any form. When will this happen? How will this happen? Who will be the ones to be asked to cash? – Now we notice efforts in all resorts to save on discretionary expenditure, de facto to make a savings package across all areas. Distribution political, justifiable, this is unfair and unfair. You should rather consider how to relieve those people who are most severely burdened and affected, instead of somehow driving the lawn mower over all the budgets – from education through the social resort over culture – over all the budgets. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What contribution does the package make to the economy? They are very proud of that, I also heard from the hearings that the invoices of the experts – it was actually only experts, I just thought, there was not a single woman in the hearing – go about the direction of 10,000 additional jobs. [[Call ÖVP and FPÖ:... at the greens?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Tamandl:... with the greens?]] – You can also try to get the women’s rate. We are not always responsible for this alone. That would also be a task of the ÖVP! So 10 000 additional jobs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You're proud of that. – That's good too, just: With €3.2 billion and € 3 billion, you can create more jobs. If you put this into direct employment, i.e. in childcare, in care, in additional teaching staff, the employment effect is threefold. You should consider this, especially in the context of the current austerity debate in the field of education. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The family package is also tried to sell with a huge shame. Advertising, it's about a 13. Content for families, is really a shame – a malignant shame. Many people, many families have nothing to do with this family package, except for the amount of amortization, and this is especially the case for single-parents – that is 250,000 women. 44 000 people in Austria, who are at the lower income limit, feel this family package just €90. Super-earners – and there are not a few in Austria who still fall into this category of income – can benefit from this family package of 3 500 €. [[Abg. Krainer: But also middle earners!]] I think that's unfair. I find, especially the Al-Leinerwing, that women and men in this area deserve much more money. Here, therefore, one cannot speak of a just family package, because it clearly favours those people who deserve very well. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true either! Even with income from... I have these savings!]] And in these times, I think, this debate is done in the sense when we clearly have to say that we are taking care of those who really have problems, instead of somehow pouring out something with the casting pot. I don't understand one thing either: You are now looking forward to the Free Kindergarten in Vienna – especially the SPÖ is delighted about it. [[Abg. Krainer: No, parents are happy about it, not a party!]] – Yes, many are pleased about it; But they are happy too. But it's a lucky question now, where you live in Austria, which state is governed by whom, whether you have a free kindergarten or not. This is a mere random decision. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: This is an election decision!]] I really don't think that's for the parents: If they happen to be at home in Graz or elsewhere in Styria or in Salzburg, then they do not get it, perhaps in Vienna. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So why not go here and put this volume, this €500 million into a comprehensive free kindergarten support for all children and all parents throughout Austria? – The SPÖ has not answered this question until today. Why you have to do this on such tax detours doesn't light me up. That's completely unfair. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But one point is the summit of injustice, and I believe that the heart of many people who work volunteering in Austria, especially in the field of environmental and nature conservation, is bleeding: Mr Pröll, you once were Environment Minister, and you have been in this House. The area is very much supported by NGOs, environmental organisations that have been pioneers in many areas. Now you are all proud that the genetic engineering ban has kept to the Commission. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Prill: Because the government has done this! Without NGOs!]] You say the government did this without NGOs, but that's where I ask you: Who were the pioneers of resistance to genetic engineering in Austria? Who has started a genetic engineering folk desire in Austria? Who has set impulses on this issue across Europe, in all European countries, with volunteer work, where many people... – “we”?! – I guess that's a joke, I have to say! [[Abg. Grillisch: We!]] The ÖVP was still on the road per genetic engineering, 1993, 1994. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] In Enquete commissions, you have had to discuss whether agriculture might not do well to hold back with genetically modified plants – 1993, 1994. [[Abg. Grillitsch: That's all you've slept, Mrs. Colleague!]] I can remember very well! I really think this is an incredible discrimination and bad treatment for people who have been working forward for years, for the whole of Austria – not only for the whole of Austria, but also for reasonable, forward-looking policies. They are being punished here today: environmental protection organisations, animal welfare organisations. I think you're at home asking your children: What about the rainforest? How is it with the extinction of whales or of species of animals and plants that are beautiful and important?, which is also about to tell. [[Abg. Grillitsch: We have implemented it, the genetic engineering freedom!]] But: People may donate, but you don't allow the money to be amputated. [[Abg. Grill:... just talk!]] They say “speak only. ” – You have to explain this again: What's actually going on? Your criterion was to discriminate against this work? – There is no explanation for this except for political punishment, except that you are not fit by these people because they have been raised in the animal welfare sector here and there also the farmers on the toes – quite rightly, by the way. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10368	The German Federal Minister for Finance Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10389	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the audience that has come to be there when the time of discharge we are discussing today comes with the biggest tax reform! . I am not quoting politicians here, but I quote from the discussions in the Committee where experts in expert hearing believed that this tax reform brings the strongest relief for taxpayers who have been seen in Austria for decades. [[Ironic calls at FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Singer: Of course, “an opinion”!]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I come back from Brussels with the impression of the discussions of the European finance ministers that have taken place over the last two days, and I would therefore like to highlight very briefly the key facts of this important discharge package, where we stand, what is happening to us and what is to be expected from the perspective of economic research for the whole of Europe, for the whole world and thus for Austria in the coming weeks and months. Without a doubt, we have faced the biggest challenge since 1945 in terms of financial and economic policy. The data consistently show down. We therefore have our hands full to do, the things that are necessary and which are to be put on the way forward and proactively, now with a calm hand, to keep Austria in balance in order to keep the economy in balance. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as I have also listened very attentively to the opposition politicians: The time has come not to carry out any political charities on the back of this crisis situation, but rather to do what you have done together in this House, because you have unanimously voted in favour of the start of the necessary assistance to support our financial system with €100 billion in order to stabilise savings, maintain the credit economy – and where the necessary measures are now being implemented. I do not understand why, in such tense and challenging times, some start to say goodbye to this unanimous political decision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Because Minister of Finance Molterer has promised something else...!]] This is not done, concentrated and calmly controlled by this greatest crisis that we have had for a long time. First point. Second point, my honours. Ladies and gentlemen: The most important currency in 2009 is trust. And we need to build confidence in financial systems, to build confidence also towards citizens who can now rely on them and that we have to introduce in politics the right things that are necessary to give appropriate answers. [[Abg. Stache: Control is better! Control is better than trust!]] [[Abg. Strache: Trust is good, control is better!]] We have decided in Austria more strongly than in other countries of the European Union – and even earlier – to focus on a mix of measures, namely to relieve people of this biggest tax reform over the last decades, while at the same time strengthening the economy with two economic packages in order to maintain the cycle of the economy over the next few months and years. Now, to the part that we want to decide today, tax reform. From this point of view, I can very much thank my officials and all the staff who have strapped this overall package – including Willi Molterer, who was involved in the basic concept, and the two State Secretarys – for having been able to decide on a comprehensive package of measures, on three pillars, since the start of this government's office. [[Abg. Street: Since January 2007!]] The first: We will significantly relieve all those people who pay taxes in this step. By the way, we have already relieved all those – more than 2 million – who do not pay taxes – who forget that They always say so – by reducing unemployment insurance contributions to the level of € 300 million. This has already been settled early in the framework of the tax reform and is no longer in the debate. The second pillar, which we have made, is with an amount of €500 million and with new instruments that will work, designed to reach out to the Austrian families in particular. The third point is that we also give a clear signal to those people who are entrepreneurship who have businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, with the increase in the exemption from 10 to 13 percent, that in the crisis with this discharge, we are focusing on their entrepreneurial activity, because we know that policy cannot save jobs, but that we are particularly dependent on the fact that entrepreneurs do not become blatant and continue to operate, even if it becomes tight. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These three pillars will also help us to do the necessary things. ==References== In January 2009, 2.7 million people in Austria will no longer pay wage and income tax. This is an increase of 160 000 people who deserved it. We relieve from the worker to the executives of 420 € to a maximum of 670 € per year. This is a social policy, ladies and gentlemen, balancing and all the levels of income that need not be compared. With the family package, I, too, as a father of three children, know what there are costs and needs, and that is also very important to me personally, with a mix of measures, even though Mrs Glavischnig has said that it is a shame in this package somewhere. [[Oh-Rufe at MEPs of Greens and FPÖ]] – No, that’s not the case! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Oh, yes, it is!]] – With this family package we become a 15. Income for the families of Austria can be made possible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Where is the family tax division?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with the amount of child replacement paid together with the family allowance and which we also have retroactively with 1. In January 2009, with the adjustment of the maintenance allowance we have set per child, and with the introduction of the deductibility of childcare, a principle will be implemented for me and for us, which reads as follows: With increasing number of children increasing relief. That's a clear signal. From the single mother to the multi-child family, we will gradually implement what we have always said that with increasing number of children more money remains in the stock exchange. [[Abg. Strache: So a family tax division is not the talk!]] This is a right, not only economic, but also family-political right decision. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a point that will help, above all, those organisations that we need at our side in times like this: It is about the issue of the deductibility of donations. Today, we want to send this signal that people who donate – and this is a lot of Austrians – are getting back part of their donations volume and volume; but only in the case of donations for those organizations – in a first step – who serve people. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Those organisations that do the right things at the right time, which we also need on our side in order to discharge public budgets, that organisations in the mid-term and social sphere also need to be discharged accordingly. This is now being implemented, and we will be able, if perhaps the public budgets give back more room for manoeuvre, to discuss how to consider this also for other organisations. However, in view of scarce resources and scarce budgets, we need to set priorities – and the priority is set in the field of military activity and also in the field of social commitment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... environmental organizations! Why do you punish the environmental organizations?]] On the third pillar, ladies and gentlemen, on how we continue to deal with the benefit of corporate profits: We will increase the previous amount of free money for invested profits from 10 to 13 percent. This leads entrepreneurs in this country – depending on their profits, I can give two examples – with a profit of € 20 000 to a relief of € 680 and with a profit of € 50 000 to a relief of € 1 340. So we do not abandon the entrepreneurs in our country either and above all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this package also contains very important measures – which I could mention in detail here; You know: Eco-premie and other things – which, as they say, put a very important emphasis on combating the crisis in general. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... Fiasco!]] The tax reform and two economic packages amounting to €6 billion for Austria account for 2% of the gross domestic product. We also deal with all the limits of financial viability, are ready to partially increase the debt level of the Republic in order to be able to help effectively, but we will never forget that we also need to make a major contribution to the economy. What we are dealing with today's temporary debt will have to repay our children and children. That is why we need to take this narrow welcome of effective assistance while keeping in mind the debt situation and the country's financial viability. This is a special challenge in special times. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] 6 billion €, measured by the other economies of Europe, are absolutely in the forefront. [[Abg. Street: With the 15 billion for the banks you are not so economical!]] We have responded quickly, we have been so excited about the extent to which we can go through this crisis valley stronger and faster than other countries. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We can therefore look to the future with optimism – pessimism was yesterday! We must recognise reality, address it openly, but we must do everything we can to tackle this crisis together, clearly and efficiently. Austria has already mastered quite different times, about the generation after 1945. [[Abg. Strache: These were different personalities than today! That's the problem! These were still personalities, Mr. Pröll!]] Of course, this is a difficult situation now, but we should take an example of those who have built this republic. Together, with all that we are getting on the way today, we can be successful and make it. Let us not let anyone grow this courage to the future! – This is an important task in very difficult times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10682	Next item is the report by Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10704	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! I wouldn't have expected so much applause from the ÖVP. The interesting one, Mr. Klubobmann's head, is already: Always if you do nothing or almost nothing, try the good old schilling by converting into schilling, so that the whole of the numbers comes a little bit from here. They are not only at the level of education in the last century, but obviously also in relation to the monetary issue. – So much to this part. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pröll, you are talking about the biggest tax reform for decades. – Well, you can see it like that. The fact is that this is not a tax reform, but rather a minor tariff adjustment, which covers just under the inflation rate of the last three years. If you assume that, as you say, € 5 to 6 billion for economic packages and tax reliefs are in the forefront of Europe, then you have not looked at other countries. They speak of 2% of the gross domestic product. – In Germany, there are 2.7 percent of gross domestic product, and there are a number of countries in Europe that make much more. Compared to the bank rescue package, it is simply embarrassing what is being done here. The main focus must now be clearly on ensuring employment in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, Mr. Finanzminister, spoke in a round yourself a few days ago that you fear that we will have 600 000 unemployed in this country in the autumn of 2009 – which hopefully does not apply; but also economic experts assume that this could be possible. At the same time, you say that we will have more than 400 000 unemployed people than in autumn 2008. And what more costs 400 000 unemployed, I can tell you: There is a rule of thumb from the Wifo, which clearly states that 100 000 unemployed people are burdening the state budget with €2.5 billion. Mr Finanzminister, I now ask you a very specific question: If you expect 400 000 additional unemployed by the autumn of this year, this means that the budget of the Austrian state will be additional burdened by €10 billion – have you budgeted it? [[Abg. Krainer: In addition, 40 000, not 400 000!]] I ask you where you have budgeted this, Minister of Finance. Wouldn't it be more useful to secure employment in this country, to finally take money, to make a tax reform that has washed, so that people don't just get 20 € or 30 € per month, say 5 to 7 € per week, and we can assume that the small and medium-sized income recipients have between 150 € and 200 € more in the bag? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then we can talk about an economic recovery package, then we can talk about strengthening purchasing power in our country – but not in view of this miniature package you are presenting here. You have addressed the economic package. – The first one has not yet worked, it has not yet arrived where you would have liked it, and the second one that you will decide today during this debate during the day, we are talking about €250 million. Granted, that's the right approach, but the effect puffed because it's far too small. And that's not just embarrassing, it's not responsible in economically difficult times like this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To your imagination, to the ingenuity of this government: They consider how to support the car industry because the car suppliers are mainly from Austria, especially for the German car industry, they consider how to support the construction industry and the construction industry, but they do not at all think about what is happening with the transport industry. You know that hundreds of transport companies in Austria, old-fashioned family businesses, are threatened by bankruptcy, and you are not ready to finally adapt the car tax to a European average. [[Abg. Strache: To abolish the NoVA! The NoVA gone, that's it!]] They create a scrapping premium, although it would be much more useful to temporarily suspend the NoVA, which would help many. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, that you do not believe me, I am still taking it from you, but that you do not believe your own economic experts – not the SPÖ – that surprises me. Mr. Hannes Androsch, your lead industrialist from the red area, clearly says in “format”: Politics's asleep. “You can’t clear a big fire with the casting can either.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To quote one more, namely the economist Erich Streissler, who thinks by the government very “many” anyway: Faymann has “zero economic knowledge”, and Pröll is a few percentage points above it. – I would say below! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10789	Mr Dr. Stummvoll. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10811	Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! If we are discussing this tax reform today, we are discussing it, Mr Strache, of course in an economic environment, which is undoubtedly the biggest challenge in recent decades. The World Bank last Sunday, and yesterday EU finance ministers pointed out this: the largest global, that is, global recession since 1945! No question, these are the facts and facts. The wind blows us in the face, and the bottom of the valley is not yet reached, you have to say honestly, but – and this makes us optimistic – show all the facts and facts: Austria is better off than many other countries in the world – the data and facts we know today – and this, Mr Strache, has several reasons. Firstly, the small and medium-sized business structure of our economy with innovative companies and hard-working, skilled employees in the enterprises, employees around which we envy the whole world, ladies and gentlemen! We can be proud that we have such a human potential. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stache: But don't help them, Mr. Stumbling!]] Secondly, I say that in the direction of my colleagues in the SPÖ Group, we have a living concept of the social market economy, which differs considerably from the neoliberal capitalism of Wall Street. We live a social market economy. And thirdly, We have successfully implemented structural reforms in the years 2000 to 2007, which enable us today to implement such a tax reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we are better there than many other countries. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Therefore, Mr Strache: You can't pray the economy in a healthy way, but you can't feel sick, because economy is called billboard and psychology. That means: Clear facts and facts, the biggest challenge for many decades – but we are better there than many others, and we are confident that we will cope with this crisis, even if the wind blows us into the face! This tax reform today – already stressed by the Minister of Finance; that is what the experts in the hearing in the financial committee have said – is the biggest tax reform in the last decades from the volume. The priority, of course, is not structural reforms, but tax relief, and I think this is the right thing to do. I always meet people who say: Stop the tax reform! The only thing I want: I want to pay less taxes! - That's exactly what we take into account. Less taxes pay no counter-financing by taking something out of one bag to put it into the other bag. The general situation: I think we can really say here in Austria – and the opposition can also be proud of it, it voted in favour at the time – that we have set the course very quickly. At the end of October we decided on the bank package, three and a half months ago, then the economic package one. Today we decide to grant tax relief, to strengthen purchasing power. Today, we are still adopting the 2009 Economic Recovery Act, and we are still adopting the Ecopremie today. So politics has really reacted very quickly, so we actually have a very good current account of the first hundred days of this federal government. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank our coalition partner at this point, even though he sometimes can't get used to it – today again, Mr. Klubobmann Cap – to call the years 2000 to 2007. Be so honest, to say that at the time, all of Europe has envyed us for these reforms that we have implemented, they are the basis for today's prosperity! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Let me also say the following, because I would also like to accept the criticism of the opposition, which reads: Everything's too late, everything's too little. – Faith You, in my desk shop, I have many suggestions on how to reduce taxes, there are also all your proposals; only, don't forget, the budget has only two pages: Income and expenditure. For all billions of revenue, which one does not waive by tax reduction, it is necessary to reduce expenditure by a billion in order not to fall into debt, and I do not have your proposals for a reduction in expenditure, Mr Strache. [[Abg. We have just said this to you with the unemployed!]] You're very weak. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: administrative reform, health reform, there you sleep!]] You, Mr Strache, are very good at demanding, in all-better knowledge – but where expenditure savings are concerned, you are usually very dirty, and also the volume of your calls can unfortunately not exceed that of your argumentation emergency! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Just because you don't listen!]] Another point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say in the direction of many colleagues in the SPÖ, namely: The small incomes were reduced too little. – As we have heard today, almost every second person pays no wage and income tax at all. Let us look at the distribution – I would like to mention it here today, and this is also an appeal from me to the now no longer present Social Minister – let us look at the social distribution! Just recently, JOANNEUM RESEARCH published a very interesting study: Two Graz families, both families have two children, one family has the minimum income of 950 €, the other four times as much, 3 800 €. Result: The family with 3 800 € gross has only 440 € net more than the family with 950 €. – What does that mean? That we have a cumulation of social systems: Federal level, state level, municipal level, which no longer creates any transparency at all. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] In this House, I would like to discuss the issue of social justice, involving all three levels: federal government, countries, community. But let's be glad today that we decide on this tax reform! We will adopt a tax reform that will give impetus to purchasing power, to consumption. We are therefore optimistic that we, this small country in the heart of Europe, will be fighting this crisis as one of the first successful ones. In this sense: Thank you, Minister of Finance, for all the preparatory work that has been done here!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10944	Mr Van den Broek. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10966	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! I must speak to the honourable Member. To give boldly real justice in the assessment of the years 2000 to 2007. [[Abg. Riepl: Please don't have an inn!]] At that time, real good reforms were taken. The tax reform – and this should not be underestimated, nor debated away, for these are facts – which were decided on two stages by the then black and blue government of Schüssel/Riess-Passer, 2004 and 2005 respectively, or the tax reform stages that then entered into force, amounting to €3 billion, made it possible for 2.5 million people to pay no wage and income tax in that country at all. That was a big throw we did back then. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Klubobmann Cap, now I come to your speech: You've been making yourself like a market here, and you've proclaimed your belly shop, which there's no such thing as that. I'm just wondering, Mr. Cap: If that's all you've said today, why isn't it your voters' business? Can I tell you something? – You talked about it this morning in the “Current Hour” that you would rather be in the 18th century. Since the 18th century, I think you have been sitting in Parliament for so long, since the 18th century. It is similar to me in the century, with your ideas – but that doesn't matter to your voters, because they run you into crowds of them. [[OBJECTIVES]] Check the calendar, browse if you still have it! Do you know when the SPÖ won the last choice? In October 2005! This is three and a half years ago, and since then the SPÖ has lost every choice dramatically. [[Abg. - And that's good!]] This is the result you are getting, Mr Cap, with your measures that you are always offering us. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] ==References== March you have probably already deleted from the calendar, cut out of the SPÖ: 10 per cent less in Carinthia, 6 per cent less in Salzburg – because you have failed socially and because you are failing socially now again. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You send your officials off the SPÖ – that was seen in the “Report” yesterday – the poor Mrs. Rudas is going to “clean the sounds” – I quote the “Report”, which is not my own; the “Report” said, “Klinken is going to clean” – with a questionnaire the SPÖ is now going to the households – and what, do you think, is on the questionnaires? – “What moves Austria?” This is because the SPÖ does not know, it has to ask what moves Austria! I do not wonder that you will lose any choice if the Minister of Social Affairs, who sits wide there – no longer in the meantime, he has already gone, he does not care about it anymore – nor does he know. [[towards the government bank]] I tell you what moves Austria, which really moves Austria. – The rising unemployment that is moving more and more towards record unemployment. That moves Austria! A million people who live on the poverty line, 150,000 of them children, people who can no longer afford heating, shopping, even life, that is reality! People who have a high tax pressure, which you, Mr. Ex-State Secretary Matznetter – why aren't you? – do I also wonder, with this tax reform, not at all milden. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] They pass on poverty and give nothing at all to exactly those people who need it. That is why you will also lose the next choice, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Faymann prefers pictures, shows on television what he hangs for beautiful pictures in his office. He doesn't care what's going on outside the people. And the Minister of Finance – just before Easter it is good, that fits well – plays hide. He's hiding everything. He's hiding the budget. We can't do that until we're 21. April inspected. Although it is said that it is already done – the Minister of Education opposes this, because she is not satisfied with it at all – but he hides it once until 21. April. Hidden, cleared. Or: the pension adjustments. It's not talking about it. It is only to be heard that the Ministry of Finance has already again experienced a dramatic reduction in pensions, as in recent years, under social-democratic leadership, because pensions are raised again below the average rate of inflation. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Proll: Wrong!]] This is also bad, Minister of Finance! [[Abg. Amon: But all this is not true!]] Put the budget and the pension adjustment on the table, we want to know about you! You have the responsibility, Minister of Finance! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] To the tax reform itself. – Well, the SPÖ doesn't look that happy either. The Secretary of State for Finance, who has been a tax and financial expert for a short time, did not look happily at the Committee. All of a sudden, he ransacked out of school: We now agree with the entrance tax rate and the peak tax rate, but we still have to talk about it, because the SPÖ does not like that. So what now? Where is the one who is always conspired? [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Arbitrator.]] In reality, with this tax reform, you will not even manage to at least mitigate the cold progression since 2004. There's a huge piece missing – half a billion! And if we add to this the burden of finance ministers Molterer – mineral oil tax increases, increases in health insurance contributions, recovery of child benefits and others – if you add all of this, then this tax reform is not worth anything, because it does not bring people under control, but is a loss business for people in recent years, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Street: A zero-sum game! A real zero-sum game!]] The social dimension, Mr. Sozialminister, is very, very good in the following example: Although different figures are mentioned – the calculations of strata are correct when you take the lower part, 20 € per month, 5 € per week; if you take the overall average, it is true that what Bucher said is 49 € – but whether 20, 30 or 49 €, the social dimension appears in it: 20 €, 30 € or 49 € for taxpayers per month, but a 13-year-old car is worth 1 500 €. – This is your social dimension. For such a social dimension You're really ashamed! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Cap, you say we have no ideas: We have tabled a very thick proposal, with all our ideas, from the flat tax, which is also discussed in the ÖVP, to the merger of social security institutions, also in the Committee. Why don't you get job effects? Why don't you relieve one-person companies? There are 100 000 of them in Austria. If we relieve employers' contributions, and each of them employs only one employee, we have ten thousand new jobs with one stroke! – This is an innovative idea we propose. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: For example, what about performance justice? [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Why can't you, Minister of Finance, finally pay more for people who do more? – Get away with overtime taxation! Performance is to be rewarded again in this country! This is what we demand from the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11156	Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11177	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The fatherly friend of my predecessor said the truth is a daughter of the time. [[Call to the FPÖ:The Westenthaler has no friends!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] If you look at the pension increases between 2000 and today, you can see: 2007, 2008, 2009 was increased above the inflation rate, and before that always and exclusively under the inflation rate – even though Mr Westenthaler now acts as if it had been reversed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is true that from 2000 to 2006 marketing was somehow “in” and some shame told people, for example, about the “greatest tax reform of all time”, of which you have said so great now that this is the very best thing that has ever happened. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's the same shame again!]] You can also listen, because you were still in the government with this tax reform and were very happy at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The colleague Krainer is like the grass in the new robe!]] Let us look at what was decided in 2004, 2005 and what is going to happen in 2008, 2009! [[Abg. Strache: Krainer is the Karl-Heinz Grasser of the SPÖ! The grass of socialist embossing!]] We start with small incomes, that is, people who earn so little that they don't pay wage and income tax. – This does not mean that they do not pay taxes, because of course they pay taxes and lots of other taxes. Let's see what it was in 2004, 2005. - Zero! Zero euros! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! Negative tax!]] What is 2008, 2009? – Unemployment insurance contributions reduced, a saving of an average of €25 per month, corresponds to €350 per year. That's the average. The comparison makes You're sure: What if the SPÖ is in the government? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why aren't you elected?]] And what if blue or orange are in government? – A huge difference for small incomes! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How was middle income? They moculate and have a “white” sage, “Fünfer-Josef”. – This should probably be remembered by the Kaisermühlen Blues, but you mean almost €5 a week. [[Abg. Strache: A good interpretation!]] What was 2004, 2005? – 1 € there was on average more in the week. Now it's 5 €. That's the difference! The difference is, at that time it was approximately – apologies – 2 € per week, 100 € per year. That was the average relief in your “greatest tax reform ever! ” And now it's about 500 €. – This is the difference between the SPÖ in government and blue or orange in government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They – including Mr Westenthaler today – do not tire of mobbing about the new enemy image, the managers who deserve so much. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Come on, that no one chooses you then!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: that the voters believe you!]] Mr Strache, ask my colleague, Mr Graf, who sits next to you: He voted for it at the time! And the colleague Westenthaler has been sitting still a few more ahead and has voted in favour as a clubman. What happened to Efficacy in 2002 in 2001? – Stock options were introduced as compensation for managers! This means that managers have paid up to €35 000 less in taxes through this law. That's what you decided. – What happens today? We'll get rid of it! No tax privileges for managers, that's the difference! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This has been taken up again! Is that still valid?]] Getting out of here and talking big is easy, but let's look at reality! Let us look at what you have actually decided here and what we can now clean up behind you! This can be continued endlessly: At that time, tax reform favoured investment abroad. If you have invested abroad, you have received tax advantages in 2004, 2005. [[Abg. Strache: How does the Foundation tax look, Mr. Colleague?]] What are we doing with the economic package today? – domestic investment, domestic jobs are taxed. – This is the difference between blue and orange and SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Who relieved the super-rich in this country? Who halved the foundation tax? Who was that?]] Let us look at the distribution at the companies, at the companies! What did you do in 2004, 2005? Large corporations – large tax axles; small businesses – nothing. What are we doing today? – We do not make tax reliefs for large businesses, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is the difference between black and blue in government and SPÖ in government. This is reality – and not just what is said here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Overall, I am surprised that you do not agree today, because you could accept today's draft with much better conscience – because it is social and also invigorating the economy. We have heard that the Greens are talking about “only” – under quotations – 10,000 jobs, and other experts say 13 000 to 15 000 jobs; in any case, it is an impulse for the economy, a real relief for people, the five times of what was decided here in 2004, 2005. You can really agree with good conscience. - We're doing it today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11460	Next, Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11482	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After all, my previous speaker tried to argue differently. This was very rare to hear today, especially from Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance. This is rather sad, therefore, because the times in the face of the biggest economic crisis – at least since all of us are alive – are not committed to the fact that, like your predecessors, you are illuminating Parliament and the audience with some NLP features. It takes a little more differentiated debate to which I really want to invite you and also challenge you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In fact, they have not, in essence, addressed the holding and proposals of the opposition, which, for the most part – in any case, as far as they have brought in Clubobfrau Glavischnig – with the expertise of the Economic Research Institute – I brought them along, they have about 100 pages – in the course of October 2008 when you sent yourself to form this government. While you are telling us today that it was done very quickly, quite properly and at all well, you have essentially ignored the proposals of the Economic Research Institute. In my opinion, they continue to ignore the dimension and scale of the crisis, which has not been fully resolved for a long time, but which is much worse, they are also resistant to advice, also to the Economic Research Institute, which had at least half an agreement with the finance and economic ministers before 2000. And see – Black and Blue is gone, but the proposals of the Wifo are still not implemented by Red-Black. I should like to quote some of the headings in this study: the relief of the labour factor, the greening of the tax system, the capitalization of assets. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Of all these, almost nothing is left of your proposals. Look, we don't want to mark the few points that are positive, even as such. Some of these have already been mentioned – for example, the abolition of the tax advantage of stock options – and also in Business sector is not all bad if the benefit of taxation of profits not collected is eliminated et cetera. But let's look at the big questions and dimensions: Now it is obviously about – as the economists would say – economic effects. We can then look at the distribution effects of these measures. It could also be translated with employment effects and justice issues to be addressed here. In both the findings are very, very poor. We have found this to be balanced, measured on the scale of the economic research institute and too easy. We cannot agree to the main part of this alleged reform because it is not at all a reform. There you leave where employment can be generated. It must even inform you that those people with the lowest income – be it pensioners, whether employees with lower incomes – do not get anything – that exactly and at least 2.5 million people – now the number has been disputed – in the course of this reform. This leads to the fact that even though more than €3 billion will be moved, there will certainly be more demand from more consumption. Whether the upper and middle levels of income "consumer" all that we now yield can be questioned. You can also read this in the Wifo studies. But then you really miss the task, which is now – perhaps it looked different a year ago – to produce employment policy effects, as well as a tax reform at all. The second aspect of this same thing is simply a matter of justice. It is true – and all the studies show – that the lower income, the lower ten, 15 percent, has been losing real for ten years and stagnating the lower third to a large extent. - That's it! As far as the distribution of assets is concerned, we are in the OECD-Disneyland at all, because no taxes are paid on us by the highest assets at all. One could have decided a tax law at all, that is, the owners of particularly large assets do not pay taxes. In this area there is also the real failure of the Socialist Group. She can't get out of the line all the way: Before the election, to run around and to proclaim everything possible and then to soak up that the wealth-related taxes in the government negotiations are no longer even addressed, that is already a poverty testimonie, Minister Hundstorfer! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It does not help, however, if Mr Katzian still has his appearances there, where we all drive around, where people are involved in concerns and debates. That's a double game, and you'll have to solve it once. If this goes away for five years, you got fired soon, I can only say. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, I must say that this same displeasure has also been claimed by Mr State Secretary in the committee. It just happens too little here. You can't talk about that. I would therefore like to leave this Wifo study here for you. They're coming. Then you can take them home and study them. Perhaps it will then become a bit more honest and a little better with the social democratic appearance. One last: I have expressly said that Austria is in good shape. - That's true. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] But if we are not allowed to discuss that along the bank package we are working with foglights, if we are therefore called nesters, then you are producing the problem and not those that point to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11603	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11624	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Kogler, thank you for giving me a copy. This would not have been necessary, however, if you could have saved the copy costs, because of course I know this study and have it in the office. [[Call the Greens:Read!]] In times of economic crisis, it is about defining the objectives: stabilising the economy, promoting employment and combating unemployment. These are the priorities of financial and economic policy in these economically difficult times. It is about pursuing these objectives effectively, quickly and massively, and we do so with today's decision, which will be taken here in the National Council. The second largest package in the European Union has been put in place in the economic field. We are, when we add our social benefits to it, in the absolute top line within Europe as regards the fight against the economic crisis. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you are lying!]] Reduce taxes, relieve small and medium-sized incomes, relieve families and small and medium-sized enterprises, which strengthens consumption, and that gives security. I think it is a great success of this federal government to have tax reform from 1st century onwards. January 2009 applies, is also preferred and therefore the money arrives quickly with the people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A few corner points still: In addition to this, 160 000 people will no longer pay wage and income tax due to this decision. There are a total of 2.7 million people who, although earning income, no longer have to pay taxes for it. This also gives rise to a strong women's focus on tax relief, because women are reduced relatively more than men. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's probably a joke! That's a joke!]] [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: This is not a joke!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: there are many who do not have that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] All taxpayers will be relieved, but the focus is on small and medium-sized incomes. Mrs Glavischnig! If you look at the distribution of income, you see that it is precisely this relief that affects women disproportionately. We have also introduced a cover for the top incomes, where a discharge is justified, but we did not want them to rise to the immeasurable, and therefore also a lid. As a percentage, the strongest tax is charged at incomes between €1 200 and €600 – that is between €400 and €470 per year. 88 percent of the total volume of this tax reform goes to income below €4,000. If we add the 300 million redundancies from last year from unemployment insurance, there is an absolute focus on the lowest, lower and medium incomes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This tax reduction is a major relief for the middle class, the smaller and medium-sized incomes. The most important measure in the crisis is to relieve small and medium-sized incomes, also because it stimulates consumption, increases domestic demand, and thus creates a natural stabiliser for the economy, which is of great importance. Consumer demand for households is also the largest aggregate of total economic demand at 55 percent. It is therefore particularly important to invest the money in this area as well. Previously, economic considerations were discussed: 1.8 billion of this tax relief goes directly into consumption. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Who says that?]] As a result of this tax reduction, this is a massive boost in consumption and also a support for the economy we are producing directly and immediately. In the Wifo White Paper – for example, if you read in the 11 part study – you can also read that the increase in income by 1 percent already has a short-term increase in consumption expenditure by 0.7 percent – even the total volume will flow into consumption in the long term. Not only does this result from the fact that 1.8 billion is directly involved in consumption, but it can also be said that this money flows very strongly back into Austrian businesses. Another consequence of this tax relief is that we can create 13 000 new jobs and expect a positive GDP effect of 0.7 percent for 2010. But it is also important to relieve where it is necessary to remove privileges where it is possible. I therefore also think it is particularly important that those who can afford it also contribute to the fight against the crisis. Therefore, the replacement of Stock Options, a privilege for the managers, is absolutely correct and necessary, and it is also good that we can decide today in the course of this tax reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: That's when the street cries like tears!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is a red illusion!]] It is also very important, however, that the discharge and strengthening of the middle class ensure and support social security in our country. If we look at the social divisions as in other countries where the social middle class is heavily burdened, we see that this is particularly important. Today, this decision relieves the average Austrian and the average Austrians. We relieve those average Austrians, who are anything but average, because with their performance, their hard and hard work, they also generate a good share of the tax revenue we have to serve the state. These are also those people who, with their hard and hard work, support the economy. Therefore, it is right and necessary that we relieve these people with today's decision, and especially right and necessary that we do so retroactively with 1. January 2009 will be done.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11820	Mr Weinzinger came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11842	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! You will certainly remember that we were able to experience a red and black coalition for two years from 2006. And you can remember that the then Minister of Finance has told us again and again, of course, the goal of this coalition – but only in four years – is to be a tax reform. At that time, there was no economic crisis and no world financial crisis. At that time everything was booming, and it was clear that a tax reform must come. The government said: At some point, 2010; the opposition and in particular we from the Freedom Party said: Tax reform now! Why did we want this tax reform at the time? – Especially for reasons of justice, because through the progression and through the devaluation of money, the citizens of our state had less and less money in their hands because it was “regulated” because it was already known that the money loss had to increase progression and that much more tax had to be paid for the same value. This is the background we already wanted to have a tax reform. But that's where they told us: Yes, of course, we are making a tax reform, but only in 2010! – Now we have the tax reform and have not reached 2010 yet. Now we are told that this tax reform is necessary because we have an economic crisis triggered by a world financial crisis. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, in the final effect, you do nothing but what you announced in 2006 and 2007: You're making a tariff relief! They make a cleaning, a very simple cleansing. And all you're still doing is not true. That's not true! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is simply not true that you will relieve the citizens so that consumption is rekindled. This is especially not true because you have worked under wrong conditions – and you know that, I hope you do: They have developed the tax reform in December and January, calculated and calculated from the then data with a view to the expected economic growth. In December and January, an economic growth of 3 percent in the plus sector was expected. That's what it was. Your basis of calculation. In the meantime, now, in March, we know that it is 0.7 percent – not 0.3 percent but 0.7 percent – so it will be a minus economic growth. That has already been established. However, we also know that there are forecasts that there will actually be an economic growth in the order of minus 2.5 to minus 3 percent and in the Federal Republic of Germany of minus 5 percent. And that would have been the basis for a tax reform if you seriously believe that you want to help the economy. They obviously did not mean it seriously; They have only carried out a tariff adjustment. Also Klubobmann Cap has said that a tariff adjustment, a tariff relief of 2.3 billion is on the table. And then a cry for help came from him to the opposition – at least I understood it – because he said: There were no proposals from the opposition, no suggestions came from the opposition. That is, you have come to realize very well that what you brought together from the government is not enough at Weitem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If, at the beginning of this today's debate, the Clubobmann and the Federal Party of the Freedom Party have made clear and clear the long-standing freedom requirement, namely that this tax reform should not include 2.3 billion, but at least 6.8 or 7 billion, because we are making money available in other areas too, then it has been right and I am emphasizing this! [[Abg. Donabauer: Ten would be better, my colleague, or eleven!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11922	Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11964	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! High house! Mr President. It is a compliment for Raiffeisen that I am quoted so many times, and Mr Strache has almost got a problem with it. But he always has that when someone's successful. He just can't do that! This cannot be done by Mr Strache. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Imagine, in addition to shackles, there would be someone second who would have been successful as well. That can't be! And that's why you need to understand a little. Ladies and gentlemen! Today there was once a great, great praise by the Greens. Mr Kogler said literally, yes, Austria is well there. – I can't expect more praise from a member of the opposition. He's right about that, and that's why I'm saying thank you for this praise. It is the confirmation of what is actually given. Ladies and gentlemen, one should nevertheless not close one's eyes to reality. The economic situation is dramatic, the world economy in the crisis. There's no need for headlines like yesterday. The world economy threatens to crash!, crisis destroyed 40 trillion €!, and so on. It's known. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also known that Austria is not an island of selection because we are dependent on the world economy in the globalized world. No economic package, no tax reform can solve a crisis, but it can significantly reduce it. And I think this tax reform is at the right time. It comes with the right measures, it comes at the right time. [[Abg. Strache: 3 years too late!]] Yes, Mr Strache, this is always the problem. You would like to do something in addition in times when the economy is experiencing a bloom, but you would have nothing at all if it was difficult. [[Abg. Street: As in Denmark, so that economic growth continues to grow!]] You don't have anything left today! Be proud that in the times when the FPÖ was still in the government, Mr. Strache, when your predecessors were still in the government, the basis was laid for Austria to be able to implement financial measures half reasonable today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Or do you want to do the same as the Americans did to live on pump? Financial financing without making audits, then instituting, sending across the Atlantic and inviting European banks to apply? [[Abg. Strache: Our Austrian banks have done this! This has been done by the Raiffeisen in Iceland and Eastern Europe!]] Some bankers then argued that real estate financing was the big business – and ultimately, America has been compensated for by Europe. It's a shame! A shame! Ladies and gentlemen, we should not make the same mistake! It is precisely this tax reform, which has a strong family package of up to €4,000 in the lower income sectors – and 88 percent of the lower incomes benefit from it – that is to say, it can be said that the right balance between the necessary and the reasonable. This tax reform is a corresponding support for consumption, a corresponding support also for lower incomes. Yes, it is unfortunate – I give this openly as a church speaker; it has already been said today – that the communities also pay. Yes, it is. I would also like the municipalities to have their own economic package, as in Germany, because finished projects would be in the drawer and one could immediately support the regional economy. No question at all. But one must also try to achieve what is possible without great indebtedness and to take the right measures. For the pity of so-called credit terminals, which is here again and again linked to the bank package: Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you some banks that last year have over 30 percent increase in funding! Those companies, those companies that have made proper balance sheets in the good years and are now able to make balance sheets, deliver facts, have no “credit clamp”. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where do you live at all?- Oh, my God!]] But those who have “returned” did not know, Mr Scheibner, what a house banking financing and a corresponding household banking relationship means, which was no matter what and which only the Rosins had to pick up, now have problems. I'm right about you. They're having problems now. That's not a question at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have no idea what's really going on now!]] But you yourself always say, Mr Scheibner, that we should be solidly financed. Or do you want to continue to finance those plants that are broken to death? [[Abg. Scheibner: Raiffeisen again!]] Would you like that? – I doubt it, ladies and gentlemen. That would be irresponsible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Easter enlargement has been mentioned critically several times today. Some have forgotten what great export figures there were and what employment security in Austria was done through these exports. It was a master achievement of the Austrian economy, its businesses and entrepreneurs – and ultimately also the banks that financed it. The excellent Easter enlargement assures us 400 000 additional employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12094	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12116	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to deal with Mr Cap's comments at the beginning, but my colleague Auer's been challenging me now. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: That's always good!]] Mr Auer, yes, that's always good. It would be good if you were sitting on the Supervisory Board, as we have heard now, in a large bank, as I believe. Wonderful! There you get all kinds of premiums and hopefully also relevant information. However, as a Member of Parliament here in the House, we should also do something to ensure that these institutions do what they are for: to pass on loans to the people and to the companies – instead of coming out here and insulting the businesses, to evade the businesses! [[OBJECTIVES]] You go out here and say, Only those who are bad, who work badly, who can't make balances, now have problems, otherwise nobody has a problem. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] It is good that this is now being broadcast by television, because this is an insult to hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs who are now fighting for survival and who are abandoned by your institutions! A scandal is what you have said here in this context! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Show me a single...!]] They will be abandoned by you, Mr Auer. That's the problem. The taxpayer and the entrepreneur may be liable for the speculation losses, for the speculation losses that you are also responsible for. And then you come out – that's huge! – and still insult the companies! - Yes, I know! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: Do you even know what you're talking about?]] Now comes the next Raiffeisen representative! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] That's great! Just get out of here. [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: How the blind do you talk about the color? It's a horrendous thing!]] Mr. Col., calm down! First of all: Calls from your own place! So go back up to the last row, then you can make calls! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] I'll give you examples. An entrepreneur comes to me, who has also been planted by you... [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: Just show us one case!]] Look at you getting nervous! [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: fairytale uncle!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, At last you should really go to the economy and not sit comfortably in your couches and plant the people. That would be necessary! [[Congratulation and bravorage at BZÖ.]] It also does nothing when ordered surveys are carried out, after which everything is all right. Then I wonder: Are you all right? Then why set people free? Is this all businessmen who can't make balances, Mr Auer? These are all miscarriagers who now have to release the staff who now have to send their people in brief work? These are all bad economists, Mr. Colleague? As a former economic party, do you really want to say this seriously here? - That's great! [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: You don't know what you're talking about!]] I know, Mr President, because unlike you, I am really in the private sector and I am not just talking about it. That's the difference. [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: When did you work where?]] Ladies and gentlemen, you want to be healthy here in a kind of self-hypnosis, it's all wonderful. A huge tax reform!, we have heard now. Everything wonderful. Where are the proposals for savings? He would have had such good proposals, but one must also say where there are savings. You should have been at our "Austria" meeting yesterday; Her Minister of Finance was there. We have heard from the Court of Auditors what alone would save in the administrative field. There might also be a demand for your country leaders! [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: Carinthia! You'll start in Carinthia!]] Yes, I do! Single law of service for officials in the Federal Republic of Germany, countries and municipalities – that would be a potential for savings! –, unbundling skills. Hurra, come out with your suggestions! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the health field €3 billion, Mr colleague, €3 billion would be saved in the health sector! [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Carinthia!]] Tell your chamber representatives not to sit on their privileges, but to really do something to save us. Then we would already have €6 billion, which we want to give to the taxpayers of the BZÖ, the small and medium-sized economy. That would be an interesting proposal, instead of always saying: The opposition does not do anything! but to do nothing and only to speak healthyly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You from ÖVP and SPÖ are responsible for the increases in fees and charges. You have the electricity price increases also to answer in your federal states, at a time when the population... [[Call to the ÖVP: Who has the highest taxes?]] Who has the highest taxes? Who? [[Call the ÖVP:Kärnten!]] Already again the Carinthian nester from the previous series! Such politicians really belong to the panoptic, but not to the High House here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We now need politicians who really do something for the people and don't have big sayings here. I'll tell you: You will also receive the invoice presented! Unfortunately, it's serious. The economic crisis is far too serious for us to listen to such polemics and plattites.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12387	Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12409	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Dear spectator at home! Dear guests at the gallery, especially the young guests who have come numerous today! First of all: I don't know what kind of picture we're actually giving to the public. They look at it – and it screams half-tight here, falling into each other's word. [[Abg. Grosz: Who are “the ones ”? Do you mean the citizens?]] Ladies and gentlemen, people have a right to work here, to work together constructively, and people here take each other seriously. If you do not take your colleagues seriously and always shout in between, you will not be able to take the citizens seriously. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our goal today must be to combat unemployment. Everything we do, everything we think of, and everything we work on must have a common goal: the fight against unemployment and the protection of every single workplace! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you responsible for the country elections?]] Dear Mr Westenthaler, you have to do this perfectly and quickly. And: Yes, we, the Social Democratic Party, are the party, which is then also outside of the people and see if what we decide here is also a good thing. Yes, even today we were at half past eight o'clock in the morning at the ÖBB in Simmering and have seen if the measures we are taking here really happen. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Chamber of Labour Election!]] Mr Westenthaler, that You don't trust people, I'm quite clear. I have no problem “cleaning sounds ” and going out, putting myself to people, but you are very well! Tell people what you are voting against today. Tell people that you are voting against the fact that 88 percent of this tax reform is for the good of those people who have a gross income of up to €4,000! Tell the people that you are at €500 million for the relief of the families! Tell a single parent with two children who has a monthly gross income of €1,700, a child in kindergarten, a child in school, that you are opposed to her having a discharge of €1,700 annually! [[Abg. Oillinger: What about the single parent who has 800 €?]] I'll take you in the ring cleaning. Go out and tell the people what you're against, just because you think being against everything is going well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Somehow this doesn’t leave me alone with the “cleaning of the sound. ” Of course – as a warning – I’m going to “brighten sounds” tomorrow, too, I’m going to “brace sounds”, and I know that the social-democratic group and the social-democratic members are going to “brighten sounds”, because the employees of Austria are not any voters. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: People want this!]] They're our voters, they're the voters of social democracy, and we'll get them back one by one! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I do not understand that the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition are voting against it today, because, when Werner Faymann said in summer, how important it is to prefer the 2009 tax reform, which has still been supported. They said: Yes, you have to! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So what is moving Austria now?]] My previous speaker, Weinzinger, meant something like this: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Werner Faymannhat prove: Of course, it's up to you to want to! Precisely today, right now is the right time for a tax reform. [[Abg. May. Darmann:... also give new elections!]] I am pleased that this is not only seen by the government and by the majority of the House, but also by experts such as Otto Farny or Mr Felder. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And who else?]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's no easy time for us. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I don't think so: on the SPÖ!]] Whoever says he knows a hundred percent of what is to be done and what is not even better, he doesn't quite say the truth, because in reality we only know that it makes sense if we all fight together against unemployment and for a secure Austria. It is important that we not only preach that people in our country hold together, but also that we keep together here in the house when it comes to combating unemployment, strengthening purchasing power and easing people, especially families. I congratulate the Federal Government on this tax reform, thank the Federal Chancellor and his vice chancellor: Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12584	I call Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12629	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rudas, you have, unfortunately, hidden us from what has arrived at the ÖBB in Simmering from the package to be discussed today, namely tax relief. [[Abg. Dr. Graf:... are you young against it!]] [[Cheerfulness with Greens and BZÖ.]] I would have liked to know if it is the deductibility of child care or the benefit of self-employed profits. It's good if you go to the ÖBB – I don't care at all the times of the day – but I'm afraid this has nothing to do with today's agenda point. For this, you have given up more incense as far as the things to be treated today are concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, one must give Mr Pröll the right to: We have the most severe economic crisis since 1945 – not behind us, but before us! Of course, this suggests asking: Is this tax relief, which we are dealing with today, adequate and sufficient for economic policy, yes or no? – The answer is clear: No, no, no, This is not speculation, these are simple facts, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! I do not know where you were hearing, Minister of Finance Pröll; I thought we were at the same hearing together. At any rate, I have heard something different from you from all the experts present – no matter which group is nominated by. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's right!]] The most optimistic of all, Mr Farny of the Chamber of Labour, has said that this package may secure jobs in the order of 13,000 in Austria. Good, that's good! [[Abg. Krainer: “Work,” he said!]] Is it certain, Mr Colleague – and how much is unemployment in Austria currently increasing? How many were these? Was that not exactly 50,000 more in Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] And how many will it be at the end of the year? I'm just saying, Yes, any measure that combats unemployment in Austria is good, it is fought directly or indirectly, is good. But do not pretend that this relatively small tax relief in the order of 1% of GDP would solve the problem. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It adds something that we don't tire out to stress: They could have achieved more with the same commitment, with the same credit financing and the same deficit increase. You could have achieved more by focusing on the lower and lower incomes, in the jargon of the economists: on those people who have a high consumption rate. Mr Schieder said by the way today: Well, about 60 or 70 percent of this tax relief goes directly into consumption. In this way, he says indirectly that the marginal savings rate is 30 to 40 percent. This is ineffective in terms of economic efficiency, Mr Arbitrator. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: long-term...!]] – We are not talking about long-term, we are talking about the economic crisis now! [[State Secretary Mag. Schieder: Long term is next year!]] Now, 2009/2010! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Don't tell me about the long term in 2020! These are also important questions, as we will ask, for example: How have you proven yourself ecologically? Take You even true what Obama is doing in the United States, this mixture of economic and ecological? - No, you don't! But that's a separate problem. In the short term You can achieve more by focusing on lower incomes. You have not done so, so this economic package – in the economic jargon – is inefficient! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, you would have been able to reduce taxes on work even more strongly without taking up a higher deficit if you had allowed counter-financing in the area of those taxes which are economic policy, as I should say, neutral. These are primarily the property taxes; that is to say, to the address of the SPÖ. But now there's something left to the ÖVP: We have a remarkable situation in Austria. The interest rate has been falling for months, through actions by the ECB, the Bank of England and so on. In Austria, the cost of credit financing for the Republic is increasing, the so-called spread is at a historical level. I have never experienced this – none of us have experienced it – that we have to pay so much more than the Federal Republic of Germany for their credit financing. The same is true, just more pronounced, with the so-called CDS, the credit default swaps. Why do I mention that? - Not to cover the nest, as you'll put it to me. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Who has, in the first place, promoted the attention of international financial markets in this negative way? This was our Minister of Finance Pröll, who has traveled through Eastern Europe in a completely unprepared manner and has harassed the governments there, I say, who have missed any diplomatic preparation which has not at all taken note of how to do policy in the European Union. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Mr Pröll, I'm not alone with that. Read today – Wednesday, 11. March – Editorial article in the press: ‘Faymann and Pröll: Masters of EU-Desasters", then you know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12807	In agreement with the club responsible, I extend the speaking time for the next five debates from 4 to 5 minutes. Mrs Graubur is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12857	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Tamandel for being allowed to speak. I don't usually do that, that I push myself forward, but it's so ordered. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Today it has been said by the government and the coalition several times: We can be grateful to God for this tax reform that is going on today! - I think I'm in the wrong movie. [[Abg. May. Darmann: I believe so, yes!]] How do you even get to claim that? . We have, if I may remind you, €180 billion in government debt, we pay for it, the taxpayer pays about €10 billion in interest for this in the year. To make ourselves here and to say that we can afford this tax reform is probably a great mistake! [[Abg. Krainer: We can afford the doubles according to the stretch!]] [[Calls at the FPÖ.]] I'll be right there. I would also like to say something to my colleague Mr Auer. They have addressed America and put it as an evil example. – We have not fulfilled our homework in the east either! Or do you really think that Austrian banks there have arrests of over €200 billion? – I believe that this has been just as wrong, because the risk of it has ultimately to be borne by taxpayers. Another thing about the debt: If we had been in the fat years when we had gone well and high tax revenue had been saved and not finished everything again, we would now have so many reserves that we could carry out a really reasonable tax reform. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have always missed the fact that we are dealing with a truly sustainable administrative reform, state reform and health reform. It is only always spoken about in Sunday's speeches, but unfortunately it is not made by God. I would like to say something about income development. Mr Kogler has already mentioned the Wifo and this report, I am going to go a little more in detail. People's income grew by 3.6 per cent annually from 1996 to 2006, while employees' wages were only 2.8 per cent in the same period. Thus, workers earned less than 0.8% compared to national income, which is weaker. The report clearly states that there has been a large redistribution process in particular in this decade, ranging from wage income to profit and wealth income. From 2001 to 2006, there was an annual increase of 4.3 per cent in the income of people, but the wage of workers increased by only 2.8 per cent. The Wifo clearly states: The relative wage of the labour factor decreases by 7 percent between 1978 and 2001 and by 5.5 percent between 2001 and 2007. Profits increase more than wages, but wage taxes have increased considerably more than profits and corporate taxes, namely by 21.2 percent, while corporate taxes increased only by 17.6 percent in the years 2002 to 2007. From 2000 to 2005, the rate of inflation far exceeded the annual income growth. That is to say, people have suffered a loss of purchasing power, especially affected young people and women. In view of these figures, I now ask: Does this tax reform in any form look like something? Is there going to be reversed, yes or no? – It is this with a clear, clear No answer, because small and medium-sized incomes are still those who are disadvantaged. I'm not surprised that the SPÖ has lost all the last elections. I don't wonder at all because people know that the ÖVP is moving the SPÖ at the nose ring through the area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The SPÖ leaves – and I have demonstrated this here – the voters clearly fail! Given these major economic difficulties in which we find ourselves – unemployment will rise to up to 600,000 people – the most extraordinary burden is to be expected. We therefore need extraordinary measures to deal with this. I am now with you – I believe Mr Krainer has said this: I believe that we need to take as much money as we can handle at the moment, even if we are going to extend the deficit once again, because we must necessarily put this unemployment in the barriers. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] Courage, courage and courage again – this is what we need in Austria, and also a certain effect, as Obama achieved in America. We need...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12929	The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12950	We need a doubling of this tax amount. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: doubling?]] We need discounts for social security, for the...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12982	Mr President, we must also pay attention to the other speakers. We have agreed to a speaking time. [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Grainy.]] I can add, Mr Grastaur, that I do not order this. I make an agreement in the Rules of Procedure, which has been the same since the first speaker in the order of the political groups. That is why Mr Tamandl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13021	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Dear members of the government on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have heard a great deal of criticism from the opposition, which we have heard in recent years, namely in the last tax reform, and which we heard in the budget hearing when we asked the experts. Among other things, the so-called tax reform 1988 has also been glorified. Do you know what the 1988 tax reform differs greatly from today's tax reform? On the one hand, the 1988 tax reform was really a structural or a serious reform, because at the time we went down from 62 percent to 50 percent at the peak rate. On the other hand, there have been serious deletions of tax arrangements, as we do not now have them in this tax reform. And do you know what we do not have in contrast to 1988? – We have no counter-financing, and we must thank the Minister for Finance and the Government for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that this is not a reform of the tariff is not possible. What should we do about reforming the tariff? – We did this the last time we turned to an average calculation. But what really corresponds to a reform and what is very profound is the family package. This has not been the case before, that we have allowances and that we have the deductibility of child care costs. As an employee representative, I would also like to have a partnership with the economy, because we know one thing very well: The jobs do not create politics, not the government, but jobs can only create businesses! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Policy can only help entrepreneurs. But as employees, we do not need a class struggle that is sometimes interrupted by the opposition, but we need a partnership with the companies. This is why there is also a possibility in the family package that companies can support their employees in child care costs with an amount of €500. Of course, many have said: What does this mean that child care costs may no longer exist in the future? – Yeah, maybe under the year, but one thing we all know: Nine weeks of vacation, nine weeks of vacation, no worker and no employee can afford to do so at all, and there will be very high care costs. [[Abg. Grosz: The teachers!]] Yes, it may be. But other workers also need child care during their holidays, and this will be a great relief for them. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] There was also the criticism that we did not do or do anything for people involved in small incomes. There, those sitting inside or perhaps not inside before, have fallen asleep in the tax reform in 2003/2004. What did we do? – We have allowed single parents a higher negative tax, we have introduced child supplements, and we have for the first time left 10 000 € tax-free, that was not the case at all. We have now raised this to €11 000, and everyone who has only a little bit of understanding knows that this also affects the next levels of income. So if you do not talk about it today, you should make better proposals to ensure that it really comes to the citizens. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It may be remembered once again what we heard in the budget hearing; Mr Finanzminister presented it. 2.7 million taxpayers no longer pay taxes. There are another 160 000 taxpayers who no longer pay tax, because a tax liability occurs only from a taxable income of € 11 000. I don't think we should always talk about that. This also applies to pensioners: 80 000 pensioners will no longer pay taxes in the future. Anyone who does not agree with this today can say goodbye to the fact that he wants to give a discharge to people in that country. Proposals, which are neither manageable nor feasible, are moving into the drawer, but we can implement them. That is why we are also in the government and many of you are on the government bank. Thanks to the Minister of Finance, thanks to the government for this tax reform!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13086	Next, Mr. Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13107	High house! The Federal Government estimates the situation completely wrong. If I am here to hear the comments made by my colleague, Mr Stumpfully, about the fact that it is relatively good in Austria and that things are going well in Austria in the international comparison, I can well understand that this tariff adjustment, which you want to sell as a great success here, has been as bad as it has been. This adjustment of tariffs may be appropriate to the crises we have experienced in the past, these small economic conditions which have had to be compensated, but for this crisis this adjustment of tariffs has been far too little and in no way done to solve the problems. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The situation is really worrying, Mr. Federal Chancellor! The situation does not necessarily have to remain bad, however, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. May. Hakl: The Federal Chancellor is not here at all!]] You can't smile away from this crisis, Federal Chancellor! - Yes, it is! [[Abg. May. Hakl: He's not here! The vice chancellor's here!]] You're right! The Federal Chancellor is not here, as so often. As often as he is, he's not here, and that's exactly my criticism point. I must address you here, Federal Chancellor Faymann, even if you are not present. It's not my fault that they're not here. You have to ask yourself why you are not here, but you now have a 100-day deadline, and this time-limit is over. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Darmann: Faymann has been in the government for two and a half years now!]] You, Mr Faymann, have made a hundred-day refusal to work here in the House, and now I ask you: How can you justify this refusal of work? How can you justify them in front of a family father who has three children who are currently in short work, who recently built a house, is guilty of both ears and now has absolute fears of existence? He doesn't know how to proceed. He's in short work, he's threatened with unemployment, he's got debt over both ears, and he doesn't know how to spend his family. How can you justify your refusal to work before this unemployed person, before this potential unemployed person? I ask you this, Federal Chancellor! This example is not an individual case. This is an example of thousands of others who are doing the same thing. There are at the moment tens of thousands like this family father who have no idea how to proceed. And now I ask you, Federal Chancellor: How would you react in this situation if you did not know how your family continues if you had no perspective? And I tell you as a former worker representative – your party was once a workers' party, and that's why it would have to hurt you very much –: Unemployment is hopelessness! And I can't repeat that often enough. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Hundreds of thousands of unemployed and hundreds of thousands who can still be unemployed call you, Federal Chancellor: Give up the refusal to work and finally decide to be present here first, and to make second, constructive proposals. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I was in a gymnasium in Vienna yesterday, and there a young, committed girl told me that politicians have a very big responsibility because they are responsible for the well-being of a whole country. And she's right! We have a very great responsibility, even the Federal Chancellor has a great responsibility. And that's why, Federal Chancellor, you finally assume this responsibility! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am now speaking to you, Minister of Finance, because you are thank God here. They always say: Unfortunately, we have no budgetary margin, we cannot make any additional debts. I can tell you: You have no choice at all! You can only choose whether you want to get jobs created in a timely manner with debt, or if you want to finance unemployment if it is too late. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What is your message?]] That's the point! That's my message. That means: Invest in jobs now and not, if it is too late, in unemployment. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from BZÖ give you the hand; we strengthen your back. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Thank you!]] We will definitely agree if you bring forward proposals adapted to this crisis. We will also strengthen your back if you stop scattering sand into your eyes. And we will strengthen your back when you finally stop continuing this refusal to work here. – Mr Bundeskanzler! Get to work!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13249	Next, Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13271	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The Federal Ministers, Mr State Secretary! It was a little unclear to us what honourable Member Scheibner meant by panopticum. Since my previous speaker was clear, his appearance was very probably a panoptic. Now to the serious things. Today, the opposition will vote against the fact that our spectators, who are sitting on the devices today, are already paid 250 € retroactively by June at the latest – in total 500 €. [[Abg. Grosz: They've been shut down for a long time!]] – By the way, I can calm you down, TV transmission is taking place. You can therefore save your call. As we have just been sitting here, Mr Bucher. For the ladies and gentlemen on the televisions who do not know who that is, this is the Lord who tries to make a little similarity with the former Minister of Finance Grasser, but who has a little longer hair. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: And who do you look like?]] [[Abg. Grosz: Who do you look like? – Edlinger Rudi!]] Grasser was the finance minister who provided you with a tax reform, as she correctly described Member Krainer, through which there have been subsidies for moving businesses to China or elsewhere, where there has been zero euro relief for workers. In such a policy, we had not only no discharge, Mr Bucher, but also more than 500 000 unemployed and thus fifth place in Europe. [[Abg. Bucher: There are good reasons why you are again Members, Mr Ex-State Secretary!]] Today, with the politics of Chancellor Faymann and Vice-Chancellor Pröll, we are in second place because this government is making it better. And we will continue to do better through the crisis than with your participation ever would ever be possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] The Minister of Labour would like to deal with 2005 and I would only like to return to the future. With this tax reform, we have very probably also set accents in the area of families. I recall that just a year ago, on the side of the then and today's government partner, the willingness to make a 2009 tax reform was not yet developed. Here I say: It is good that you have done this, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that we are now drawing on a line and doing it now. At that time the idea was to introduce a family division, so something that continues to circulate in the ranks of the BZÖ delegates together with any flat-tax idea. On the other hand, we have done something reasonable and right, not favouring top earners, but something that enables women to be more active. And it's a good measure we have now: With a 500-million-€ family package, we enable enhanced, better compatibility between work and family. We allow women who go to work today to get tax relief even if they need babysitting in the afternoon. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] We do not object to this, Madam Members, because at the same time, in those federal states where the SPÖ governs, for example in Vienna, the kindergartens for children from zero to six years in the morning and afternoon are made available free of charge. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] The Styria is also a good example, you are right. That is, we work in each of these areas because we want to make this reconciliation of work and family. And yes, we also have benefits in the field of self-employed. And yes, we were quite a bit. Special importance: Instead of making half a million euros tax-free like Deputies Bucher – for example, the new regulation 2002 – Stock Options, we will do this part of manager's favour and make real SME funding up to 30,000 € annual profit. [[Abg. Bucher: I wasn't in Parliament yet!]] In the future, they will receive an exemption of 13 per cent instead of 10 per cent, without having to prove securities purchases. This is a good measure because it gives hundreds of thousands of small self-employed people the opportunity to get tax reliefs, and unlike your tax policy does something not only for corporations, for Wall Street and for top earners. The notaries, the tax advisors, the pharmacists, who have €200 000, €300 000 in profits, we take away the advantage of the unscathed profit, because we do not need a savings bank in the operation of well- earnable freelances, but help with the multitude of self-employed and trade operators. And this is a good measure we decide here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steindl: The tax advisors too?- Oh, my God!]] - Yes, the tax advisors too! They deserve good enough, the brides no tax relief. You're right, Konrad! That is why it is a good measure that we implement and implement this today. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] The last and most important point: This purchasing power impulse is one that all will feel. People will remember who voted against it, namely FPÖ, BZÖ and, unfortunately, Greens. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13425	Mrs. Lichtenecker now speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13446	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! In order to complete the dregs of free childcare, I lead here as an example Upper Austria. In Upper Austria, Rudi Anschober and his team have ensured that this will also be free in Upper Austria in the future. Congratulations to Rudi Anschober! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Prince: Congratulations to Captain Pühringer!]] Of course, it is now necessary to take all measures to support economic activity and to secure jobs, but we must not forget what the major challenges are. What are the great challenges we face? – This is ultimately to make Austria and the Austrian economy more crisis-proof and future-oriented. Mr Finanzminister! In this direction, structural reforms remain. Economic and tax experts in Austria note that there are three major deficits. First: The taxes on assets are far too low. Secondly, The taxes on work are far too high. And thirdly, The share of environmental taxes is very low compared to the European average. It is precisely on these deficits, on these large construction sites, ladies and gentlemen, that we need to work. Why right now? Aren't we worried about other people? – Yes, that is precisely why we need to work on it now, and this concerns the major issues of energy security, the safeguarding of the living bases. This brings me to the amendment tabled by Members Glawischnig-Piesczek, Kogler, colleagues and others. Mr President, I would like to ask for the distribution of the request. The current rule on the deductibility of donations is embarrassing, Minister of Finance, because you forget the committed organisations that are working internationally for human rights, for health and, of course, for environmental protection and animal welfare. These are also questions of responsibility and responsible dealings with creation, and we consider them important. That is why we want these organisations to be included in the donation scheme. In addition, the administration is to be kept limited. Therefore, the examinations carried out for the award of the Austrian charity seal are also to be recognised. The limited deductibility of donations is a manco that leaves this so-called tax reform. There is no prospect, there is no far-reaching view, as it is now supposed to continue in the crisis. What does the crisis mean for Austria? Is it going on this way, or is there a change in the way we go? The Austrian economist Schumpeter, who was also Minister of Finance in Austria in 1919 and 1920, said: The crisis is the end of a development! What does that mean when we are at the end of a development? How do we want it to go on? How do we want Austria, Europe, to develop the world? – We are at the end of a path of liberalisation and deregulation. And what is their result? – We are not experiencing a crisis, we are experiencing a bundle of crises, ladies and gentlemen. A bunch of crises! We have the financial and economic crisis, we have the climate crisis, the energy crisis combined with many social problems. [[Call to the ÖVP:The crisis of the Greens!]] And now it is about introducing appropriate rules. In the end, it is also a matter of drawing in ecological, social and economic guidelines. An important and central answer in this respect is the environmental and social tax reform. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, an ecological and social tax reform means income neutrality, means strengthening competitiveness, the relief of the labour factor, and it is also a matter of turning energy consumption in the right direction. The Economic Research Institute also confirms that this is the right way. We're supposed to get up on that as fast as we can. Other countries such as Norway, Denmark and Finland have already demonstrated this. That means that we should take the right step here as a result. Mr Financiary Minister, this reform lacks wide-ranging vision, lacks courage, and in fact it would have been a long time to go into the future right now, with courage and with far-sightedness.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13505	The amendment tabled is properly supported. As a result of its extent, your desire for reproduction and distribution is met. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13641	The next item is the speech by Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13663	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Of course, the government shows courage and also far-sightedness, but above all a realistic assessment of what is happening in this world. That is why this tax reform – I am referring to the two short economic packages – was presented to the House. We will be very happy to decide on this. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the Asian Development Bank estimated that an annual world economic performance has been destroyed by the crisis. 40,000 billion euros! The Germans report these days that their exports fell by 20 percent in January. In China it is 26 percent, in Japan one speaks of well over 30 percent. This must be more than an alarm signal for an export country like Austria – 60 percent of our gross domestic product – through exports of goods and services abroad. Of course, the question is whether economic packages and whether this tax reform can stop the crisis. I do not believe that in person, but we can at least alleviate the crisis, they can do away with it and, at least, we can counter the right measures as far as this is in our power. Here we come to the dimension: This tax reform is worth almost €4 billion – said the Minister of Finance and Vice-Chancellor today. That's so little! This is significantly more than one percent of the gross domestic product. Together with the two economic packages, we come to just under 3 percent. This is more than the EU average. This is not so much less than Obama and the American government will do, and that is all remarkable. I mean, that's the right step at the right time that belongs to support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me make two further comments on the subject of tax reform. I think it is reasonable that, after many years of discrimination against income taxpayers, it is de facto that you clear this up with the 13 per cent free of charge. This is a reasonable equivalent to 13, 14. The monthly salary of workers, and I think this is fair, because we need solidarity in both directions: One needs solidarity with the weak, but one also needs the solidarity of those who pay taxes – and that is now the minister. At least a small step has been taken here with the increase of the limit to €60 000. We know how we are gathered here together – experts have said this in the Committee – that this would have required a valorization of €80 000, but €60 000 is a step, a small step, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13720	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13741	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Appreciate guests! Dear student at the gallery! The opposite of good, Mr Pröll, is well meant. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I agree with you that you mean it well, and you are also taking steps in the right direction, Minister, but you are half-waying, in the truest sense of the word, in half-way. Each economic researcher tells you that a discharge of at least €7 billion is necessary, but you stay at €3 billion. Mr. Finanzminister, your own experts in the hearing of the Financial Committee have told you that this is not a tax reform. This is, at best, a collective reform, not even that, it is a change in tariffs, and this too is far too careful. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we know that exactly those people who need a discharge would be the ones who are below an annual income of €11 000 and who know that they are 100 percent in consumption every single additional cent, so if we know that exactly these are not relieved at all, then we are clear that this reform will be imprisoned. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the other categories of income, this reduction in tariffs – I am deliberately saying – has the effect of reducing tariffs at an annual income of €60 000. Savings will be €112.50 per month and savings will be €149 per month at an income of €1 100 per month; that is €14.41 per month or €48.03 per day, Mr. Krainer. 48 cents! Dear students at the gallery, that is, one third of your parents will not spare anything at all – and another third of your parents are concerned about whether they can give you half a grain tip more in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] But this is what the government here wants to praise as a “great throw” and a“ grand tax reform ”! – In order that you may not be able to increase consumption, Mr Finanzminister, you will not be able to boost the economy either. Show courage, Minister, show determination and make a tax reform that deserves this name too! Then you also have our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13820	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13841	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Although the tax reform to be decided today has led to many discussions in advance, no one today is doubting the correctness and necessity of this reform. The details of this have already been explained several times today, so that I would like to state in summary that this reform is at the right time and that this reform also reaches the right recipients. It reaches those who finance the state very much. These are primarily the working people, and especially the fully employed people, and the small businesses. This is also good, because it ensures that the volume of this reform will reach a high level of consumption, thus strengthening those companies that employ 70 percent of the working people. The range of measures is an indication that the government partners show willingness to compromise and to act, which is particularly important in times of crisis. This reform is also a compensation for the costing of recent years. It is therefore interesting that, when prices fall on the tap columns, the subject will also be pushed out of the newspapers and consciousness, although the high energy price has remained. Therefore, it must not be that on the one hand, our federal government and the governments as a whole are fighting the crisis with all their strength, and others are misusing this crisis. This culture, ladies and gentlemen, is the name of immorality, and we have decided to oppose it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13878	Mrs Haubner's next speech. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13900	Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Unfortunately, the woman's minister is no longer here. I am very sorry because I would have liked to hear her see this tax relief package from a woman's political point of view. [[Abg. Krainer: A second Secretary of State has come! You could welcome that too!]] High house! Having a family must be manageable – I think we all agree – and tax relief can be a very important part of it. If I look at this package now, I think that some of the government has already looked away from the BZÖ, also in the government programme: It will continue the childcare allowance, it will require the Free Kindergarten last year. I would like to see the world go a little bit further, given the jubilation I had previously heard from Vienna's colleagues in Social Democracy, who meant how great it was in Vienna. I think that Vienna has been the final light on this matter so far. Pioneer was still there – and you can't discuss that away – Carinthia ; [[OBJECTIVES]] Carinthia, where there has been a free kindergarten for years; Carinthia, which is the only federal country that already has a mandatory last kindergarten year. In Lower Austria it was even so far a few years ago that ÖVP and SPÖ voted together against the free afternoon care in the kindergarten. So it's not that great! That's why I'm saying: Leave the church in the village! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the tax reform system, you cheer, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, above all, what this is for a large family relief; a large family relief of € 500 million. But this is almost the same as the promises you always give before pension increases are made. That's where the pensioners are promised everything. Now numbers are always thrown into the discussion that on average everyone wins € 225, and people believe pretty slowly that through this tax reform, for example, they have € 225 gain per month. But if you look at how it really is, then the great disillusionment comes! As I said, I am very sorry that the woman's minister is no longer here, because I have to say: From the point of view of women's policy, this is a disaster, especially as the explanations on tax reform state: “Higher incomes benefit from tax relief in absolute terms more than low, therefore men are favored by absolute amounts.” However, in her personal opinion, Mrs Frauenminister then admits that she welcomes all of this from a women's point of view, because it is precisely measures to relieve small and medium-sized incomes and families, which is particularly welcome in economically difficult times. This is camouflage, ladies and gentlemen, because women in small incomes – and there are at least 900 000 self-employed women who earn around 1 000, 1 100 € – do not pay a tax, but they have zero from the relief of child care costs. They have only € 7.50, the increased amount of children's retirement, which they receive in addition. So I really wonder where there is justice, where there is equality, because a low salary single parent must pay just as for childcare as someone who has a higher income. So there is no distinction, and from our point of view this is a very, very unfair and uneven measure that is being put in place. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are also presenting a motion for a resolution, which is, above all, our BZÖ tax relief model, including the corresponding family relief measures. Our motion for a resolution has been or will be distributed; I can inform it in a shortened form. The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council, where possible, a final bill amending the amendments provided for in the Government's paper as amended by the Committee's report, in the following sense, that average purchasing power losses have been largely covered since 2004, that a draft law is submitted by the end of 2010 at the latest, which implements the BZÖ flat tax tax model with the following key points: that, in particular, the amount of children's allowance is increased to around €1,000 per year, i.e. € 85 per month, that the single-earner discount is increased by approximately €100 and that all child care costs per child and year are deductible up to a maximum of €2,300 for those parents who seek family support so that they can also claim it. Family aid is to be valorised each year in accordance with the consumer price index. We also want it to be limited not only to these areas, as it is planned, but also to include blue light organisation, environmental, nature and animal protection. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the current BZÖ tax model helps comprehensively and, above all, also brings simplifications and savings. You need that in these times! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13959	The motion for a resolution which has just been submitted is sufficiently supported, has been explained in its rough points, has already been submitted in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are distributed to Members and are therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14106	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14127	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It confirms itself once again: The location determines the position! If I listen to the different statements of the opposition here – most of them it is too little, but there are also some who say it is too much or it can get out of the joints of the government budget – then I have the confirmation that we are perfectly right in this tax reform and that the certainty of meeting is absolutely given. [[Abg. Neubauer: The population is too little!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is, ladies and gentlemen, that this tax reform has given a substantial relief, and I would like to say that it is only €5 a week, not uncommented in the room, because it is simply wrong. It's not right! It is a noticeable relief for all those who pay taxes that fill the tax pots, and we want to relieve this very client specifically with this tax reform. As I have repeatedly heard in previous speeches: What about those who are below the wage tax limit, so they are not affected by this area? I have to say: These people are affected by the amount of child replacement. We decided last summer to reduce unemployment insurance contributions by 300 million. And I also remember the 2004/2005 tax reform, where we introduced child supplements to single-earners and single-parents – the more children, the higher the deductions – which means that up to €800 will be paid to those who do not pay taxes. You should evaluate that in total! I would expect this from the members of the opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 500 million € family package is an absolute milestone in family policy. I would also like to mention the Free Kindergarten, which is introduced in Upper Austria, and I congratulate and thank my head of state Josef Pühringer, who has set this initiative and thus on average makes it possible for parents with children in the kindergarten to save 800 € per year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: Ten years you needed to do this!]] We welcome the support for small and medium-sized enterprises. Employers and employees stand together in economically difficult times. That should be the credo that we give to the population from here, namely from Parliament! Finally, ladies and gentlemen: I welcome the admissibility of donations, especially as Chairman of the Board of Works of the Red Cross Upper Austria. This is a first step. Please understand – as has been said – that it is a first step – that we prefer those organisations that work among people, namely with the aid organisations. I am tabling the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is an addition that is necessary from the point of view of data protection, and I ask and request approval of this great package of discharges, for this tax reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14220	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported. It has been read, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14269	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Musiol. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14293	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the ranks! Mr Vice-Chanzler pointed out that today there will be a vote on an important discharge for the Austrian population. I can only say: Only for a part of the Austrian population, because this family package, this so-called family relief package, only provides a relief for some of the families, namely for better-earning, more income-enhancing families. I'll tell you that too. You take € 510 million into your hands and distribute them in the form of deposits and free amounts to exactly these families: Families who pay taxes, families who are strong in income, who deserve better. Meanwhile, there are a million people in Austria living in the risk of poverty. These are 13 percent of the Austrian population, including 250,000 children and young people, single parents, mainly women. And that in a country in Austria, one of the richest countries in the world! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can tell you from examples that make it clear to you that not all children in Austria are equally valuable, as you have described in this tax reform. Let's compare two families. Both have a five-year-old child. On the one hand, a family, a double-earner household with a common income of €10,000 gross per month, on the other hand, a single-earner household with a gross salary of €1 100. What are these families saving themselves? – The double-earner family has a savings of €3,519 per year or €293 per month, while the single-earner family with a savings of €199.90 per year – less than the other family saves itself per month – or the month is €16.65 per month. – In view of this, to speak of a socially just reform, deprived of any reality and cynical! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Not only we, the Greens, but also renowned experts, such as Markus Marterbauer, have pointed out that there would have been better variants here to relieve families, namely by investing not in deposits and allowances, but in infrastructure. You would not only have relieved the families, but would have created jobs. In comparison: The development of childcare facilities would have brought its calculations to 15,000 jobs, while the relief of families by taxes, deposits and allowances would have brought its calculations after only 3 000 jobs. So five times the investment in infrastructure would have been possible. However, you have distanced yourself from that. Instead, you invest in the deductibility of costs for childcare facilities, although you know that there is not enough childcare facilities available. There are 80 000 places missing in Austria. Even if there are families who pay taxes and would benefit from this deductibility, it is not guaranteed that these families can also expect a childcare place. This is a woman's political insanity, this is a family-political insanity, and I am already very excited about how you will be able to cope with the fact that the compulsory kindergarten year cannot be introduced because there are too few places available in the coming months. I would like to make a very specific appeal to you as a government party. You, the ÖVP, regularly celebrate as the family party, but what you forget to mention is that you mean only certain families, namely, the income-intensive, the better-earning families. They forget the low-income families, the single parents, those families with same-sex parents and, as we will see tomorrow, those families who have fled from other countries to Austria to look for protection here. [[Abg. Singer: These aren't families!]] This is obviously your family concept, and it is also reflected in your family policy. And you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, what have you done about this tax reform for those you are talking about in your election campaigns or at your squeezing events, namely the low-income families, the single-parents, the women? - Nothing! You forgot this! They have been drawn over the table by the ÖVP and have participated in a policy that only benefits more income and service providers. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true, please!]] Above all, the introduction of minimum security will also be postponed! Your Minister of Social Affairs has announced that the minimum security will not come so fast. – Fortunately, there is a Vienna SPÖ city councillor, Sonja Wehsely, who points this out and says – I quote from the “standard”: “Just now, in economically turbulent times, the weaker of our society need a strong state that does not leave it alone.” – Citing. But neither in the Vienna SPÖ policy nor in the politics of this federal government there is something to be noticed. We will not continue to see how the resources in this country are so unfairly distributed, and I invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties – especially the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ – to: [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Krainer]] Bring up the courage to make a just, right distribution policy with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14364	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Lopatka. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14385	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Musiol, I think you have really chosen the wrong area to criticise the government, because there is hardly a second area in which Austria is as good as in Europe as in transfers for children and families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Exactly!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] In fact, with what has now happened, there is only one other country in Europe that is nearing the height of the transfer services that Austria has, and that is Denmark, which you will be able to read from all the studies that exist. I have listened very closely to the opposition speakers, but I can tell them the following: In fact, no one could tell from them that today is a good day for taxpayers, a good day for families, a good day for entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Singer: For those who pay it is...!]] - Yes! I say 'for taxpayers' because they will be relieved and will pay less in the future, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's exactly what it was all about, because everyone who pays taxes is a service provider for me, and here all performance providers are taken into account – and this has been achieved with this tax reform, ladies and gentlemen. The volume of the reform has a degree that it will achieve something; this is what the hearing experts have said. And this tax reform is at the right time, because we are – as explained by all the speakers – actually still before the crisis, we act before it really hits everyone fully. In some areas, of course, we feel this crisis that is coming to us – certainly! – but it will not be felt until the next few months. This is exactly where an impulse is now being put, which is then bitterly necessary at this stage, namely to do something to secure jobs: If this global crisis threatens thousands, unfortunately tens of thousands of jobs, then it is important that, as my colleague, State Secretary, arbitration, has already said, and that has also been said by the experts in the tax hearing, more than 10,000 jobs are secured by this impulse. – The boosting of internal consumption is very important and necessary, and the safeguarding of 13 000 jobs as the second point. Therefore, I am glad that we have reached a decision in the Financial Committee, and at least supported by an opposition party, that this discharge should indeed be felt for all before the summer, that this roll-out has to be carried out throughout the area and that the too much paid wage tax is refunded, at the earliest possible time, because people need every euro in this crisis phase, and the earlier the euro enters the account of each taxpayer, the better, the more effective this tax reform is in its implementation. That is why I say again: Today is a good day for taxpayers, and I wish ourselves many more days – unfortunately, it will only be few where we can do as much for as many people as today. [[Abg. Grosz: That's what the grasser said! Copyright by Grasser!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14485	Mrs Bayr has now come to speak. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14507	Ladies and gentlemen! When it was decided in 1973 to change the system from family taxation to individual taxation, it was quite a milestone. It was above all a milestone in women's policy, because this, of course, has removed a lot of negative incentives for women to work. If you were to introduce a family tax division again, such as a FPÖ application that we are now dealing with, then this would prefer families through the bank in which a person deserves much and the other person remains at home. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vocal]] [[Abg. May. Stefan:..., that's just right!]] This is nothing that corresponds to a modern family image and would pose the danger that many mothers would be kept away from the labour market. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Who's holding them?]] It would be a step back to the last century, and that we are going to reject this proposal today by a very broad majority, I think it is extremely positive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, a few thoughts on the issue of donation: I think it is a great success that, after many years of discussion, we are taking a first step on this issue – a step that brings a discharge of at least €100 million – is also a big step. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: “After many, many years”,...!]] I see it as a good thing that civil society is committed to poverty reduction, development cooperation, which is also particularly anti-poor, and that disaster aid can be taxed, but that this will not be enough in the long run. I have experienced in my political work that, for example, the commitment to a healthy environment and to human rights goes hand in hand with the above points and is also very difficult to separate from them. I believe that an evaluation in two years will show this very clearly, and in this sense I am already looking forward to a further development of donations in the period after these two years. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14582	The next speaker is Mr Vock. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14603	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Although we want to be a model student in many areas of Europe, we are not in the process of dispensing donations, because in other European countries they have been around for a long time. Unfortunately, donations for nature and environmental protection, but also for animal welfare, are generally excluded. This makes it difficult for us to do the work of the volunteer officials, because it is in an economic crisis that the donations are first saved, because there you can make savings. Let us not forget that the volunteer officials of these associations and organizations are replacing our officials, because if these associations did not do this work, we would have to replace them with officials! A general authorisation for animal welfare organisations, for example, would not mean that all associations automatically enter into the law of this deductibility: There is then another regulation in which the Minister of Finance could exclude any associations against which he may have reservations. [[Abg. Großruck: And the others..., as you do! And the others come and complain that they don't get there!]] – Yes, but then you can discuss individual cases. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's what we do anyway!]] – But today nature, the environment and animal welfare are generally excluded! That is why we ask the Minister of Finance, but also you, Mr State Secretary, to rethink this arrangement and to make the deductibility depend only on objective criteria, such as the donation seal of the Chamber of Trustees, and not on personal feelings and reservations as the Minister of Finance obviously has towards the animal welfare associations.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14664	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14686	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Musiol, I note that you obviously did not prepare for the work here in Parliament, because otherwise you would know, first – and I repeat what Mr Reinhold Lopatka said – that Austria has the best family transfers, that up to €11 000 of annual income is not paid any taxes, that there are still more than 160 000 people who fall out of the tax obligation and – as you were not yet in Parliament – that we have introduced the children's supplements in the last tax reform. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But against the family poverty...! The family poverty ignores you! As long as that's not true, I will...!]] All the more so, I believe that it is all right, necessary and good that there is now, in the course of this tax package, this family package, so to speak, the 15. ==References====External links== Family aid, which has already been paid in the previous year and will now come annually in September. That means we relieve, promote and support our families with this tax package with over €500 million. It is not often enough to say how effective this is: whether it be the increase in the amount of child dropover, the introduction of a child allowance or the tax deductibility of child care costs; one that was one of my first claims when I moved here to the High House and which is now implemented with the tax reform. In conclusion: With polemics and populism one does not solve an economic crisis!. This is a fact-finding of our clubman's head. I think the opposition is a good thing to go here and see the positive things. But in times like this one must also be able to say: If I pay something in this pot, I also have the claim to get something out. – Mrs Musiol, please take this away!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14739	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14775	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to make the following amendment: “In paragraph 24, § 124b [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] [[Abg. Grosz: Listen, you learn something!]] Point 156 is supplemented by the following sentence: ,For contributions made from the 2010 calendar year onwards, § 18 para. No longer apply 1 Z 5.’ This request is aimed at – and you, Mr. State Secretary Lopatka, as a study theologian, will certainly give me the right to do so – that the church contribution should no longer be taxed. We from the BZÖ believe – as was the former Prefect of the Congregation of the Faith, Cardinal Ratzinger – that the contribution of the Church should become a voluntary contribution and that this impotent contribution from the Nazi period is finally heard away. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes! Bravo!]] Mr. State Secretary Lopatka, if I ask for such a thing, you have to take your heart straight away. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka.]] – I thought I was making you happy. We have already made the request to abolish this unscrupulous forced church contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that Mr Roman Haider is back. [[Abg. Grossruck: Where is he? Where is he?]] You know, colleagues from the FPÖ Group: You should be a little more sensitive if you make the list of speakers!, because if a bankruptcy goes out here and the government keeps what it does wrong, it is simply embarrassing! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What, a concursor?]] – It’s simply embarrassing! The fact that the FPÖ-Oberösterreich as the national financial referents is a competitor is the case. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What, a bankruptcy he built?]] [[Abg. Grosz: He's pleading!]] – Is it not yet known that Roman Haider went bankrupt? This is generally to be read in bankruptcy. Mr. Roman Haider of the FPÖ has put down a patch of bankruptcy; yes, that is his case – and it is also the case of his group, of course, if it is here in the National Council to make its main speaker against the government! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I think it is embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen, if only colleague Roman Haider expects the government that one third of poor parents appeal to the students, because they can now, so to speak, receive only half a jausenpackerl! – By the way, Mr Haider: How many jausenpackerl do you owe your telephone users? [[Abg. May. Haider: Nothing!]] How many half the jause packs of your bill are €26 000?- Oh, my God! I would say that this is at least 13 000 jausenpackerl if you estimate it per piece with 2 €. Of course, you can make such a pack cheaper, but then it's all the more packerl you owe. Or is it €60,000 that you have remained guilty of? – I think that your appearance here is simply embarrassing! [[Call at the FPÖ:Stadler is slowly embarrassing!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Can we come to the topic very slowly?]] That is why I appeal to the FPÖ Group not to devalue its own position by taking such a close look at the choice of your speakers and sending out bankruptcys here! That's just embarrassing! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Josef Auer.]] – This is not “beautiful ” but a question of taste! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would also exploit the SPÖ if it sent a concurrency here to the speaker's desk, which makes the government or opposition great precepts. More than amazing is the fact that colleague Roman Haider tells his female workers to come to their money only with the support of the Chamber of Workers! And amazing is also that the SPÖ immediately gets headaches when I accuse my colleague Roman Haider of this. That is why I ask you about the SPÖ: What special relationship do you have with the entrepreneur Roman Haider? – I would have expected more of the SPÖ to give you a compassionate heart with the telephone users who sit at €26 000! [[Abg. May. Stefan: Where do they sit? Insolvency Fees!]] But this is not even the responsibility of this government, but simply the negation in the FPÖ, which puts people on the list of candidates who get into this house – and then are not even able to prevent a petition with their call center! [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Where do they sit? It's a flowering nonsense!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] Aha, Mr Stefan urges us to pay for this. You want to pay it? [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, I have achieved something with my debate today – and I can tell all these damaged ladies or one telephone player that the notary Stefan is ready to settle the demands that exist against Roman Haider! Thank you very much, colleague. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is social!]] I have known why Mr Harald has put Stefan Roman Haider on the list of speakers. That, ladies and gentlemen, was the background! However, I have one more concern and this concerns my colleague, Mr Kurzmann. [[Abg. May. Stefan: That's so cheap!]] – It will be even cheaper or better, because: Mr Kurzmann has put forward a request – this one will be debated here tomorrow – on the “Wahrung der deutschen Sprache”. – I was horrified, and I thought, now I finally understand why the colleague Weinzinger is constantly speaking out here in the division of a Gau-Reder. . In the end, his own group also understands that there is also a private The German language field must be complete, because which companies does Mr. Roman Haider have? – He has a call center, he would say. [[the speaker emphasizes this word German]] What performance does Roman Haider offer in this way? – ‘Outbound, acquisition, direct marketing, new customer acquisition’. Further: “Market research” – that is again German – “Termin Agreements, Opinion Research, Direct Sales, Customer Satisfaction Analysis” – and “Mailing”! [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] That's terrible, ladies and gentlemen: Mailing! What does the colleague Kurzmann say about this – and first the colleague Weinzinger?- Oh, my God! I quote: ‘Volume data update, mailing postage.’ – What kind of word creation is that? If I look at the fact that Kurzmann demands that the German language should not be used as an anglizism, I have to ask: What is this terrible company of your FPÖ-college Roman Haider? And then it says that the whole thing is still offered with “more sales, marketing, consulting at fair prices and” – I quote further – “(almost) unbeatable quality”. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the company. - That's got to go by the way.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15143	The amendment previously read is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15194	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15216	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This government template on tax reform contains a number of discharges for all Austrians – and is also particularly pleasing for Austrian entrepreneurs. It is particularly gratifying that this tax reform also takes into account long-term business demands. The increase in the allowance from 10 per cent to 13 per cent finally makes our entrepreneurs the same as self-employed employees – and this means the end of tax inequality, because this allowance is one of the 13th and 14th years old. The level of equal treatment is similar. In addition, an amount of over €30 000 can be charged for investments in assets, securities and buildings. The reduction in income tax relieves all those who pay tax. So all the measures that make sure more money remains in the wallets and more money in the companies, especially in times of crisis. This strengthens the purchasing power of Austrians and improves the financial situation of our businesses, especially our SMEs, thereby providing more room for further investment, especially for investments that we now urgently need, so that people remain in employment. Our Austrian small and medium-sized companies are the backbone of the Austrian economy and therefore deserve our support. Our SMEs account for 65 percent of jobs – around 2.2 million employees – and they make up 85 percent of apprentices, at least 112,000 apprentices. SMEs are a broad and stable pillar in economically difficult times. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we as political representatives must also be very vigilant when it comes to state aid and financial support in the economic field. State aid must never again mean nationalization. State aid must always be temporary aid to strengthen self-responsibility, for if it is so far It comes that the state is ruling everywhere, is soon no longer a state with our economy, and we do not want to do so! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15267	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15288	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! One aspect has not yet been addressed, namely the fact that measures we are taking to make Austria more independent of foreign energy resources are also employment-effective, and that we are therefore doing well to invest more in this area than before. Today we have a scrapping premium for cars older than 13 years old on the agenda. It would be a good idea to implement a scrapping premium for old oil boilers, because local small and medium-sized enterprises are active there and have the opportunity to secure their employees. In addition, we have the great advantage of becoming more independent through the exchange of these old oil boilers than has been the case so far. Another measure, which we consider to be essential, concerns thermal rehabilitation. Today, it is – I am briefly addressing the subject of tax law – that, if I take up a loan, I can assert the credit rates in the context of special expenditure. But if I have saved the money and immediately pay for my thermal rehabilitation measures, I have the disadvantage that I cannot claim these amounts divided over the years. It would therefore be necessary to introduce measures in this area also for those persons who are willing to take their own money to implement thermal rehabilitation measures. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also have two requests on today's agenda which have been tabled by me. One of the measures concerns a case of tax relief for vehicles that consume very little fuel. We must recognise that the vehicle industry is, of course, able to reduce the consumption of motor vehicles with good performance and a driving fun that you can really experience. I tested the Tesla Sport a few weeks ago, an electric car that takes 3.9 seconds to accelerate to 100 km/h, which has a battery charge 400 km range. So there's a lot going on! That is why I am in favour of exempting from taxes vehicles that consume little, yes, that they continue and say: If a vehicle consumes little – we use the limit once at five litres – then we also pay for the motorway vignette. And in 2013, we lower this limit to four litres and go down even further to create an incentive for our citizens to buy low consumption cars. What do I have of an eco-premie if I have a 13-year-old car that consumes nine litres, and I then buy a car that consumes 12 litres? Even if it's new, it's not a real eco-premie! With regard to the deductibility of donations, it is for choosing and saying a very simple way: If an organisation receives the donation seal – or fulfils the conditions to obtain this donation seal – then the donations in the context of the special expenses as in the church tax can be reduced to a maximum of € 100. That would be a very simple way. Then the Red Cross, fire brigade and animal protection organizations would also benefit from this advantage. I mentioned the church tax briefly. The BZÖ has submitted an application here today. I would like to stress that the church tax is also a voluntary contribution today, since no one is forced to be a member of a church. That is, I can leave the community at any time without giving up my faith and then I don't have to pay any more church tax. That is why we do not support this measure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's wrong!]] A last sentence that is still important to me – because it has been discussed over and over again, what happens to pensions during this legislative period, this year: I would ask the Secretary of State to clarify the extent to which pensions should be adjusted this year.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15362	Mrs Mag. Schwentner. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15383	Mr President. High house! Dear guests at the gallery – which are obviously more than in the plenary! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] It is not a day of joy, Mr State Secretary, especially not a day of joy for women. Nor is it surprising that the issue of women in relation to tax reform has not been a matter for the whole day. The women's day was before yesterday, and now he doesn't seem to care for us anymore. Tax policy and day-to-day business are dominated again, with it once again appears that even today tax policy is not made in the interest of women. [[Abg. Singer: Gender tax!]] - Gender tax, yes, that's the subject. That's also the order to the government. How else can it be explained that more than half of all paid women will not benefit from the tax reform? Indeed, all women's day have said their sayings, they have conjured up improvements, they have said that the difference in income would change, they have always promised in press releases and at events – and what happens? . Today we are discussing a central governance instrument, namely tax reform, tax policy, and in this case it is taxing women and not women! Of the approximately three million payable women, only 1.3 million pay wage tax. In other words, 1.7 million women will not benefit from the reduction in tariffs, the new tax reform will pass without a trace; 1.7 million women will have to be put to the test once! [[Abg. Singers: They don't pay any anyway!]] It is said that women would benefit from the proposed tariff reductions, because the reduction in low incomes would be higher, relatively speaking. Most women, however, have nothing to do with tariff reductions because they do not pay taxes at all. Furthermore, the social security contributions and excise duties significantly increase their incomes. That means that all women pay VAT, no matter how much they earn. That means they have to spend most of the time on consumption, and they are also taken more relatively. This is not a milkmaid account, but the reality. And that will not change either after the reform! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition, a request from the Minister for Finance has confirmed that women have so far not benefited from benefits and derogations in the tax system. That is to say, the famous allowances, which will also be borne in family policy, will not relieve women but, above all, men. Social and economic policy would be much wiser to relieve lower income by increasing the negative tax or by providing an amount free in social security. It was already asked to the opposition today whether we had ideas on how, as it were, to better disperse socially. – Here would be the ideas, but now obviously no one is there anymore to pick them up. The lower incomes are also much more dependent on spending extra money immediately, which would boost the economy and the economy. In connection with the tax reform and the planned savings in the public service, it is interesting that 3 000 jobs should be reduced by 2013. These are mainly teachers, judges and administrative staff, most of them women. It is now known that tax relief as an infrastructure measure has a significantly lower impact on employment than an increase in employment in the public sector. It is therefore quite incomprehensible that you want to save 3,000 posts in the public service right now. At least 200 000 women are already suffering from poverty in Austria. Three times as many are at risk of poverty. The tax system in the form it is now leaves it in the open. The income sheath will continue to open. This seems to me more than irresponsible from a women's and social point of view! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15460	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Haider on behalf of the European Democratic Group. I recall the provisions of the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes of maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15485	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! As almost always, when Mr Stadler, who has now fled again, speaks, we still have to report on an actual correction. I therefore note: Mr Stadler wrongly claimed that I was a “concursor” or a bankruptcy. Rather, I closed my company after a heart attack last year, in which I am involved with only 24 percent. A compensation procedure is under way, which has not yet been completed. It is, therefore, as almost always, when Mr Stadler speaks: a lot of noise for nothing; in particular, since each of the servants of that time will come to his money.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15519	Mrs Kitzmüller. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15541	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! This draft law creates special situations, some of which are very absurd. Let's take two families. A family gives their children out of the house and doesn't care for them: These people can claim deposits of 2 300 € Do it. But if we take another family that decides not to let their children take care of their children outside of the house, but to take care of their children and stay at home, these people lack the amounts of the deposits, they cannot claim child allowances. We are therefore saying: This is not a free policy, it is not a policy for our families and our children! We therefore reject this bill or this promotion of the out-of-house care of children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This family package with a total volume of € 510 million is an important starting point for family policy, but also a drop on the hot stone. The amount of child drop-off has been increased by 15 percent. This sounds very nice, but only means the valorization of the amount which has not been raised or adjusted since 2002. And the fact that child deposits benefit all families regardless of the income situation in the form of a negative tax is at least based on the approach that each child will be equally valuable. We liberals, however, reject the fact that there is a unilateral tax advantage on the costs of external childcare, so that mothers who care for their children themselves and express themselves for domestic warmth for their children have a disadvantage and are very massively opposed. We also find the condition that non-household pedagogicalally qualified persons should not be allowed to care for children very well in the family association, which means that child loss payments and child care costs can be deducted, unfounded, arbitrary and unconstitutional. This is not a free policy, ladies and gentlemen. The policy that needs to be made for families and for the Austrians has freedom of movement. Please consider, therefore, our family policy, ladies and gentlemen, with which we do not push mothers into companies or into the labour market, but actually leave them the choice to be at home with their children and to care for them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15598	Mr Linder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15619	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Austria, the country of donors: The associations work in the villages for the benefit of the community, at the cultural level, at the environmental level, in the field of animal protection, human rights, and our people are willing to donate and help everywhere. The Federal Government has made it a task – or put it in the head – to deduct these donations from the tax, but it has installed more obstacles than aid. On the one hand, there is, unfortunately, only a fine circle of those clubs where, when you donate to them, you can put off the donation from the tax. On the other hand, there is a bureaucracy that is indescribable. Donors must notify themselves, the insurance number must be announced, and in the following year the beneficiaries must report it to the financial office again. I believe that in these measures one should ask whether the Federal Government really wants people to be encouraged to donate, or whether it has deliberately created obstacles here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Tamandl: I don't see any obstacles there!]] But there are also many associations that do not belong to this chosen circle, so that their donors do not enjoy the ability to deposit the donations. I am thinking of many clubs that help us in the villages outside to maintain the village community: the fire brigades that are inspired for self-help in the villages, organizations of the Red Cross that provide first aid in the valleys outside the village. These and many other clubs help us to keep our people in the villages and prevent the deportation. As a Viennan, my colleague Tamandl, you cannot know that we have to fight with the people staying with us in the villages and not wandering into the cities! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I come to the next point we have to make. Tourism also benefits greatly from the cultural village life, which are things we sell or show to our guests. Therefore, these associations also need the possibility that the donations can be deposited to them, because these clubs need the funds to be able to exist. But the Federal Government does not create the opportunity to meet these associations, but creates obstacles and prevents them. The tax reform will burden the communities by €580 million in 2009 and 2010 and will prevent us from ensuring that the population stays in the country with us. That is why I ask the Federal Government to allow it in an uncomplicated way to meet all non-profit associations and their donors by being able to deduct these donations from the tax, and not to tax the small rural communities by tax reform any more!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15678	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Widmann. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15699	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The SPÖ and the ÖVP are here celebrating as if they were the saviors in the financial crisis, in the economic crisis, in the labour market crisis, although more people are being exempted from the service daily or affected by short-time work. [[Call the ÖVP: That's right, too!]] Mr Cap believes that the €100 billion would not be for the banks. Mr Klubobmann Cap, say Please do so also with your red fairytale uncle in Upper Austria, the SPÖ Landesscheef Erich Haider, he advertises with this argument. [[The speaker keeps a magazine up to date.]] Erich Haider says: 1 billion € less for the banks secures all our post offices for 77 years. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I assume that this was not a one-time marketing action to calm down the posters, but rather that this was “faymannized” with the SPÖ head of state, Mr Faymann, also with the Minister of Finance, so that the post offices will continue to exist. I'm eager to see if that's really going to be the way it is. - That's the first one. The second is: They spend a lot of money on the banks – for a tax bill even only €2.2 billion, forgets the donation for the fire brigade and the Red Cross. Even in Upper Austria – because I am just hearing it – you spend a lot of money on culture. Mr. Landeshauptmann Pühringer and his red compagnon in Linz, the red mayor, have spent €500 million in addition to the current budget for culture over the last three years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] One can spend quite a bit on culture, but the security of jobs has something to do with culture, for that one should spend the money! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am glad that the ÖVP is becoming particularly nervous, because there is more and more short work, especially in Upper Austria, where there is Her head of state always famous, he had such great job values. Where are the jobs? – They're gone because he didn't do anything for it. We have more and more unemployed in Upper Austria in the automotive industry, metal, wood and plastic production! In Upper Austria, 15 000 people are in short work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] – Mr Ikrath, this is a third of all people in Austria who are in short work! This is Upper Austria. That's your responsibility. This is your head of state! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] And that in 170 farms. At the company Engel there are 1,900 employees, at the Voest in Linz 2 500 employees, at the Voest subsidiary Böhler Edelstahl in Kapfenberg 1 700 employees in short work. [[Abg. Singer: But this is not in Upper Austria!]] But also in other federal states... [[Abg. Krainer: This is in the Styria!]] -Fall right! There is also a failure of the great coalition, the shrinking coalition, to do something there. Think of Doka in Amstetten: 1,000 employees in short work. Have you read the APA today? [[Abg. Krainer: In Carinthia!]] High-tech: Infineon in Klagenfurt, Linz, Villach and Graz will send 1 400 employees in short work. [[Abg. Brosz: Klagenfurt!]] – Even in Klagenfurt, that’s the way it is! And as a gypsum on it: Also at AUA, 2 600 employees are sent in short work! And you say: Everything's right, everything's right! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, you now have the task of doing something exactly for those people who are in short work who do not know how to repay their credit to the house, who do not know how to dispute their monthly rents, who do not know how to send their children properly to school, who do not know how to pay the cost of the car, for the petrol or also the cost of living. I'll give you an example. It would be easy to do something here: by putting on the wage tax, for example, by reducing half of the wage tax to everyone who is in short work. This would mean for a typical Voest worker, who earns around €1 800 gross, that you will provide him with about €100 per month. If you put this up, that's 40 million to 50 million euros a year, one tenth of what Pühringer and Erich Haider have for culture in three years. I would therefore like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15860	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15906	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs or one of the rapporteurs want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Income Tax Act – Tax Reform Act 2009, including title and receipt in 124 of the supplements. The following amendments were tabled in Hiezu: an amendment tabled by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, and a amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Krainer, Mr Colleagues and, ultimately, an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Stadler, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I shall have to vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the amendments referred to above, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, which refers to paragraph 7. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on paragraph 10 of the draft law, as amended by the amendment tabled by Dr. Stummvoll, Krainer, colleagues. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their consent to a positive sign. – This is also adopted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Stadler, colleagues, including an amendment to paragraph 24. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[Abg. Krainer: Where is the applicant, please?]] [[Abg. Riepl: Where is the Stadler?]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. [[Abg. May. Stadler enters the meeting room.]] [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP:Oh! Ah!]] [[Abg. Riepl: What discipline is that?]] [[Abg. Krainer: If the applicant does not take the application seriously, why should we do so?]] I would like to ask those Members of the House who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[Unrest in the hall.]] We are still in the voting process. I'm asking for attention so that no mistake happens! Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is also adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on a short-term clear tax relief and a medium-term comprehensive tax reform within the meaning of the BZÖ flat tax tax model. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Widmann, colleagues in support of short-term workers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Financial Committee to take note of its 125 supplements report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its report 126 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also adopted by a majority. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Financial Committee to take note of his report 127 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Financial Committee to take note of its 128 Supplements report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its report 129 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is adopted by a majority. [[14:08:56]] 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (48 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Securities Supervisory Act 2007 and the Banking Act (130 d.b.) 8. Point report of the Committee on Finance on amendment 435/A(E) by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, on measures for greater investor protection (131 d.a.) 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on Request 266/A(E) by Mrs Lutz Weinzinger, Members of Parliament, on salary restrictions for managers of close-to-state enterprises and managers whose banks benefit from the support of the federal government (132, B.C.) 10. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 70/A(E) by Mr Josef Bucher, Members of Parliament, concerning insufficient regulation on the interbank strengthening and financial market stability law (133d.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16072	We now come to points 7 to 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Zanger has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16099	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! If you know that the previous investor compensation has not worked, as the example AMIS shows, then you would like to think that an improvement in Austrian investor compensation is a meaningful, necessary, important matter. And that is also the case. Nevertheless, in this draft law, there is great uncertainty, large deficits, so that a reasonable and functioning investor compensation appears to be very doubtful. A few specific points to this: § 75 mentions the own product of an investment firm. But there is no one who can tell me what is to be understood as an investment firm's own product, because a product of its own is still something that you release yourself. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Yes! Just ask!]] Then you'd have to be an investment company, a fund company. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Ask us!]] – That seems to be again the knowledgeable in the ÖVP! In any case, from our point of view, this is undefinable and not achievable. Furthermore, § 75 states: The legal representation of financial service providers has to collect “market commissions and fees of investment firms regularly”. But it doesn't stand inside, at what intervals. What's regular? That is also undefined, undefined. A very, very essential and important point, however, is that the term “customer” is not defined. What is a customer? It can also be a depot. Someone has an securities deposit on which a sum lies. He can be the owner, there can be a second holder of this depot. Are the two owners customers now? Or does the definition refer to the concept of the depot? What about depots with zero stands? Is there a charge to be paid for these deposits too? A customer can have several depots. How does that affect? Do you have to divide your amounts in order to have the security for each deposit? Or does that refer only to the person? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That's it. You, Mr Rädler, will probably not be able to answer that! I don't think that's what I'm saying. [[Abg. Blow: Ask the Indian!]] But perhaps the knowledgeable in your group understand what I mean. Mr State Secretary! The Minister of Finance – and I would like to address this very briefly – has spoken today of the confidence desired by the people. When I read the following customer letter that a investment company has sent to their customers, I wonder how far it is with the confidence that customers should invest in these companies. I read this now, I quote: "Because of significant evidence that the real estate markets in CEE and SEA will be most likely to correct, Bank Austria Real Invest has decided to temporarily suspend the withdrawal of equity securities from the ‘Real Invest Europe’ Open Property Fund. The suspension takes place at 2. It shall be for the period of 12 months from 1 March 2009 to 31 March 2009.’ The suspension of the withdrawal means that customers, small investors, cannot at the moment withdraw their funds they have invested there. This fund was sold as a 100% safe, according to the motto: I'd even do that for my child. Ladies and gentlemen, such arguments in the sale of funds must be countered, even if they are done in good intentions and in supposed best knowledge! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Such measures can certainly not help to build confidence.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16178	The next item is Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16199	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With this novel, we fix – let us say it all army – a financial error in the construction of the investor compensation, which became particularly aware of us not only, but also in the course of the Banking Investigation Committee. The design error consists of: If a really serious damage occurs, the performance of this facility is simply not given. Therefore, it was necessary to put the construction on a new basis. I am very pleased that a joint resolution of all five parties of the 20th century was adopted. In October of last year, this government template was implemented and today we can decide on this new construction, which puts investor compensation on four new pillars. The first pillars are regular contributions from investment firms in order to save something for the damage. The second pillar is to use a certain amount for an insurance cover amount. Thirdly, in the event of damage, there will be cause-related financing. And fourth, when all the ropes tear, when repeated use takes place or when a major damage occurs, the covenant cannot escape its responsibility, and deposits – similar to savings, but only up to €20 000 – will be secured. In addition, an early warning system will be introduced, similar to the one we know about bank deposits. I now know from the investor compensation that there are still some concerns on two points. One of the concerns is whether the existing funds will allow the contributions to cover insurance to the extent envisaged. I'm quite optimistic. Negotiations with the insurance industry and the design of contracts will be a question of whether this is possible. I assume that's possible. The second is that there are some concerns about the early warning system when it comes to the investor compensation, because, because of the ownership of investment firms, a damage can only occur in the event of criminal behaviour. And it is, of course, incredibly difficult to introduce early warning systems for criminal behavior. Therefore, in the Financial Committee as its chairman, I have pledged to have talks with both financial market supervision, which has experience and investor compensation, with Managing Director Gotsmy, in order to find a solution that pleases both sides. An early warning system is in itself reasonable and well done. The question is: When it comes primarily to criminal behaviour, how can one Make an early warning? There is some experience in the central bank and financial market surveillance. I took over a conversation to bring together both sides. In this sense, I am pleased that, after a long effort, a new financial base is created here, in the interests of those who invest their money in the consultation of investment firms, but not in the interest of those who say according to some kind of casino humanity: I lay down where I get the most return promised, and if it goes by the way, the state will anyway pay for the failure. - It can't be. It is a solid, well-founded new regulation. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for being able to make the decision today in the sense of this joint resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16250	Next, Mr. Ing. Lugar in word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16272	High house! We need better protection for small investors. As it is at the moment, it is again the same as it was always that the small investors pay the bill for any large speculators putting their sheep into the dry in time. And those who can't do anything for all these growths, namely, small investors, pay the bill. And that's why we need better protection. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These speculators, with the support of the banks supported by the rescue package, have also triggered exactly what we now stand for with adventurous business, namely this crisis. To highlight this a little: These growths are really abstract. It used to be like getting loans for real estates. That is, someone has invested and has sought a loan or had a property and has accordingly borrowed it to create real estate or to accumulate economic assets. Now it is that way – and these banks have also contributed to this – that you can also borrow loans to buy shares. That is to say, you go to the bank and, if you are appropriately liquid, you can buy shares with a loan for 1 million €. That wouldn't be the worst, but it'll be worse. There are institutions that offer so-called levers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] These levers were possible and are still possible, that is, you go to these institutes and can buy 100 million dollars of securities at 1 million. You have to imagine that first! This is a lever of up to 100 that is possible. These are precisely these growths, as they are speculated in air, because without security or only with insufficient collateral, the volume of credit is moved hundreds of times, and thus the economy also carries almost a hundred times the risk. And finally, we know that from experience, we are Austrians, we always pay the small one – either the small investor or at the last instance of the taxpayers – for this madness, for this economic insanity. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There has then once been a time when it has stated that it is the highest premise for lending, loans must make real economic sense and must be truly secured, that is, it must be based on real goods. Unfortunately, one has left this path, one has followed this rule with feet, and in the meantime it is precisely because of these brutish speculators, because of these crazy speculations in the system a rupture has arisen, which we will probably only find very difficult again. And that's where we need to be, because you're so firmly intervening here, dear friend of the ÖVP: [[Abg. May. Ikrath: colleague, now we have a law to pass!]] You have already said a lot about the banks in the Financial Committee. So I didn't see anything that would give me confidence that you would have recognized the problem of the situation. On the contrary, I believe that you are a protegé of this problem and that you still want to move this problem into the future rather than really dealing with it here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Ikrath keeps a newspaper article up.]] I would really ask you – and this also concerns the rest of the banks in this country – that you let the common sense come back and allow speculation on real goods again and not on any airlocks and international bubbles that we certainly cannot need. Finally, I can say: No matter how the government is going to deal with our requests today – probably it will also detach everything again as in the past – we as BZÖ will not give in to small and will definitely fight for our requests – and they are really useful, you should look at them carefully – here to make a breakthrough. Finally, it's like this: We politicians have a responsibility, and that is: We need to protect taxpayers from being asked to cash out for the speculations of international financial sharks. That's our claim, and that's our responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16338	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Maier. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16360	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A remarkable speech by my predecessor, because it was precisely the BZÖ in 2001, 2002 and 2003 with the Klubobmann Bucher, who represented this line here in this House, together with the then Minister of Finance Grasser. [[Abg. May. Darmann: The BZÖ is only available since 2005!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They were the ones who took action to ensure that the private pension provision must be charged to 40 percent of the stock exchanges – something that we criticize. Mr Bucher, I have rarely experienced such an unbelievable party as yours. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Some words also to the Freedom Party. The Freedom Party is hard to disapprove of this government proposal. My colleague Mr Zanger pointed out that the concept of the customer would not be defined, the concept of regularity would not have been clarified and he did not know what to understand by its own products. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The definition can be found in the Securities Supervisory Act. As far as the issue of regularity is concerned, I believe that Mr Fichtenbauer could hold a private vote for Mr Zanger to explain to him how this question has been resolved in the case law so far. As regards own products: Own products, Col. Zanger, are self-designed financial products of an investment service provider. I would therefore ask you to take this government proposal seriously and to vote with us, namely, the coalition parties, because it would lead to a European law-based investor compensation regime. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My colleague, Mr Stumvoll, has already pointed out that we are relying on the industry's own funding and that the state is only invited to co-financing or to participate in it if there is a major damage. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As a consumer protectionist, of course, we are currently faced with numerous problems. On one point I would like to tell the BZÖ that we have many problems that we still have to solve. But we have taken unanimous decisions in this House. I only mention the keywords that everyone knows: Problems with Meinl, problems with AWD, problems with Constantia Bank and problems with foreign currency loans. In my opinion, a very big problem still arises with financial products in the European field. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! At European level, we need regulation of all financial market products and regulation of all locations. If we do not create this together, there will always be corresponding problems, because there is a criminal energy of providers, which investors, whether large investors or small investors, do not mind. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This will be a good decision for Austrian investors today – and I invite you to accept this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16418	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16440	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I can agree with the argument made by the Committee president Dr. Stummfully on the main point of the TOP 7 to 10, in other words, item 7 of the agenda. Stumblingly, the four-pillar model has explained. But what remains to be said? – That, despite all efforts to protect investors, we are putting in a lid. I believe that this is not unimportant if we take a short look at the fact that, in all the pursuits of consumer protection and investor protection, we must always have an eye on larger links, which would be there that the state, which is at the end of the day, cannot cover all the risks and must not cover them. [[Abg. Hornek nodds.]] We have had these actions: Icelandic banks, which promise 10 percent interest, and all are running. At some point, the one who promises 10 percent interest must also note that particularly high promises are usually associated with particularly high risks and, after all, with all reasonable reason. We do not come around to face this more often, because we have even more difficult things to solve here in the house, but not today. That's why this cover is so meaningful. And it will also make sense in the long term to find a top cover once the bank package expires – we all hope that this will not be necessary any more – in a number of facets, but also in the question of securing savings deposits. In the case of an arrangement of €20 000, or should it be €50,000 from me, over 90 percent of the deposits and thus also of the persons are covered. The second point in this context is the many-studented committees of inquiry. Especially the Banking Investigation Committee has already promoted what was the problem with AMIS. On the one hand, one has discovered that the investor compensation does not work – perhaps we would not have needed the investigation committee – but what has already been seen was that the international interconnection of supervisory authorities is not just not taking place, but that the authorities have even hindered each other so far. It may not have been a coincidence that it was the partner country of Luxembourg that failed in this case. However, you can be calmed down, we do not have a debate about excessive bonds in the fight against tax fraud and other fraud, but it is already striking that the cooperation between the authorities has worked very badly up to now. The hope remains that the crisis will lead to a better future. – This hope is also expressed at this point. A next point and a next assessment concerns agenda items 8, 9 and 10, so that the voting behaviour of the political groups is explained a little, because otherwise it always goes down. This is, after all, a request from Members. I would just like to turn to one particular point, namely that of Mr Weinzinger of the Liberal Group, which is about describing, demanding and reorganising the limitation of manager salaries. Mr Weinzinger, that if public aid is used for a certain period of time, a limitation for this period of time is, so to speak, only for symbolic reasons – and that is not to be underestimated in such a case – is clear. We agree, and that is why we are here with you very much, Mr Klubobmann. We believe that if public enterprises manage well – something like this happens; at least they should be stopped – it is not possible to put on a salary cover from the outset, but rather to rely on transparency. – You have that in the application. [[Abg. - Why not? Where public money is used, there will be a salary pyramid!]] So where tax aid is used, limit. In the case of public enterprises, there is a cover, but it has to be much higher and not, so to speak, pre-punished, which would be unfair treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16482	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16504	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Lugar can be quite calm, I can guarantee this for the savings banks: We probably finance 95, perhaps 96 or 97 percent exclusively the exchange of goods and services. The same, I believe, applies to raiffeisen, the same applies to the people's banks. And I ask once again, not always these undifferentiated accusations, to put accusations here in space. This is the High House, and we should have a special care and credibility. I address this appeal to you for a repeated time, perhaps again unheard of. However, the facts should be taken into account. We have made a good, balanced design with this investor compensation law. We have a resolution on this. It was held here in October. I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance that, with the involvement of all concerned, from investment firms to consumer protectionists, it has now presented this essential legislative novel in a very short time. It is a powerful law for future victims, and for investment firms it is a good law. Since a related issue has played a major role in the last plenary debate and also in the financial committee, I would like to refer to the “Economic Sheet”, page 16. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper article up to date.]] Here it is read that Moody’s credit rating agency, which has beaten down Europe in a form 14 days ago in a 14-day analysis, has now corrected this assessment in an absolutely unsustainable manner and suddenly comes to the conclusion, in a new analysis published yesterday, that it is necessary to judge these markets differently. And now please listen: Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic has been very, very well advised; even Romania and Bulgaria, which have just been identified as the great Austrian risk, are now in the second best risk class with low volatility. One can see the intention behind it and must become angry. However, to all those who sit in the House, I would like to make my request not to take such friendly analyses without criticism, to strengthen them politically, and then to make themselves known as deputies – as I can't do for my colleague Kogler in the “spiegel” – for a false risk presentation that strikes Austria, to hit Austria's banks, and even to worsen our state rating and bond spread by 130 basis points against Germany, which costs us around €300 million a year. [[Abg. Amon: Incredible!]] That's what the taxpayer has to pay for. Therefore, we should not give ourselves naïvely to American rating agencies that pursue completely different intentions.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16549	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Königshofer. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16571	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you lie to him, you don't believe him, even if he speaks the truth. I do not wish to deny Mr Pröll here, but what he has answered to me in writing is more than strange. I asked the Minister 13 questions concerning AEW, the investor compensation facility, and he answered only moderately from the front to the back: The EU Directive is properly implemented, it is all right. It is a private company that he and the Court of Auditors cannot examine, and in the end everything is palletti anyway. So, I must say, Mr. Finanzminister and Vice-Chancellor – he's not here himself – it can't be, because this investor compensation institution has not yet paid a single cent of compensation for very many financial scandals – I'm going to list them here. And if everything were in order and palette, then this law would not have to be changed here and today. The Minister of Finance is correcting himself here. Ladies and gentlemen, the AEW key – investor compensation for investment service providers – BWA – federal securities supervision – and FMA – financial market supervision – are all synonyms for the failure of the Austrian financial market! Otherwise, you can't represent that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How else would it be possible, ladies and gentlemen, that there are so many financial scandals in Austria? There's the case AMIS, there's the mine group: Meinl European Land, Meinl International Power – you could talk about it for hours. There is a company Auer von Welsbach; there is an Immofinanz, Constantia, AWD, Finance Globe, which has signed up last week with €32 million in insolvency. Ladies and gentlemen! We need to react quickly. However, we do not agree with this law because it builds on the wrong premise. You'd have to do different things here. Since the time has already expired, I have another motion for a resolution to make. Before joining the EU, we were told that Schilling and D-Mark are safe, will never be abolished. – This has been forgotten for a long time. It has also been said that anonymity persists. - It's been a long time. And now it is about banking secrecy, which is now to be sacrificed on the altar of European centralism. Ladies and gentlemen, with my colleagues, Mr Weinzinger, Mr Zanger and others, I am therefore submitting the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the sense of Austria, I would ask you to give your consent to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16656	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16717	The next item is the speech by Mr Jarolim. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16739	Mr President, if you have followed the political debate, you have certainly seen that the question of banking secrecy is currently being discussed and the question of demarcation in the pursuit of criminal acts on banking secrecy will be the real quality of the future. As far as this is concerned, I think we are with you. This is the point where we simply have to draw lines here, which ensure that criminal offences are combated accordingly, in the European context, in the international context. The investor compensation – as we are generally, ladies and gentlemen, I believe – is a positive development, a right path. However, it cannot be true that the Republic can, in the long term, be liable for all financial products that are scattered into the market, and therefore this 4-stage model, after which only in the fourth stage, almost as a catchment stock, is liable to the Republic in particularly serious cases. However, I still believe – Mr Ikrath has attracted this today – that it is not only a matter of worrying now at the stage where the damage has already occurred, but also of being careful that such products do not come into the market at all. There has been the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice on the Meinl Bank or its products since last week, and it is really sensational when one reads, in what way and with the It is the insolence of the Meinl Bank and its related companies that has suffocated down the small investors, namely by deception and misguidedness. Mr Maier, I think that is a case where we need to be careful in the future that the capital market prospectuss are actually right that they are informative. It can and must not be that TV advertising is advertised with a pig: Put your money at the Meinl Bank! Many who are not so well-informed about the capital market then carry their money there and almost fall around the entire capital use. On the other hand, it can be seen that the Meinl Bank has achieved huge revenues over the past few years – and those who have paid the bill for it are the retail investors. This is an insolence, which is also illegal, and the Supreme Court has now clearly stated this by referring, for example, to the reference “Investment in real estate with heads”. This statement is a joke because no one actually invested with heads, at least the Lord Meinl has put the money with heads, and the others have then been able to hold their heads more or less. This is not what we want, and we therefore need legislation in the future to stop it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16781	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote, which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Securities Supervisory Act and the Banking Act, including title and receipt in 48 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority. The draft law has been adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Weinzinger, ladies and gentlemen, on the maintenance of banking secrecy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Financial Committee to take note of his report 131 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its report 132 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is also adopted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its report 133 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is also adopted by a majority. [[14:44:49]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (91 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Income Tax Act 1988 – Economic Recovery Act 2009 (134 d.a.) 12. Point Report by the Financial Committee on amendment 436/A(E) by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues on BZÖ investment incentive package (135 d.a.) 13. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 447/A(E) by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues on the promotion of internal demand (136 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16909	We now come to points 11 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Themessl. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16937	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, there is absolutely nothing against premature depreciation, so that would certainly be good from the point of view. The government's justification is: In order to create investment incentives for the economy, this early depreciation should be decided today. This too is not inconceivable on and on its own. But you know, the early depreciation must not, of course, conceal the fact that, over the last five years of this period, there will naturally be a tax additional burden on businesses, so that in total the tax savings on the five years will be kept in very narrow limits. If you are talking today about investment benefits or investment incentives that you want to create, then you must also be able to stop the banks from finally eliminating the credit gap. This does nothing if you create investment incentives, then go to your home bank and get the credit they need for the so-called investment – and if they get it, then at a high interest rate, because the local banks are still unable to pass on the ECB's key interest rate to the customers. And if you want to sell this here as a so-called economic recovery package, I have to ask you all the serious things you want to do with €250 million, which you are predicting about costs, for the recovery of the domestic economy. That is not enough, more than insufficient! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would suggest to you that you finally link up an economic recovery package that really comes in with the real economy! Even if you are projecting, infrastructural In order to prefer rail and road projects, you must be aware that such large-scale projects in the local real economy are of almost no use because there are only two or three large companies across Europe, which are also able to carry out such orders. Just one example: The second path tunnel tube in Vorarlberg is currently under construction; Total construction volume around €250 million. A Vorarlberger daily wrote about 14 days ago in large letters that 10 million € are available for the local economy in Vorarlberg, for the regional economy from this building. – 10 million €, that can sound a lot, but if an overall project of 250 million euros says and writes only 5 percent in the region, then that is definitely too little and does not help our real economy. I would suggest that you go to the building sector, prefer business projects in this area, because the construction sector is much more personalised in its implementation and takes much more account of regional needs, above all. If, in many communities of Austria today, the kindergarten, the school sector, in all the structures that should be there for the public, there is an awful need for resurgence, then you have to bear in mind that today you have to create the opportunities for communities to prefer projects that are really important for the future of our country and thus support the domestic economy and the real economy. What you're proposing here is definitely too little.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e16991	The next item is the speech by Mr Bartenstein. [[Abg. Strache: The Minister out of service is not there!]] – Mr Bartenstein is not here. Then we come to the next speaker list: Mr Höbart. I wish you every time: 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e17036	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We have heard a lot about the world economic crisis today, it is certainly the most sustainable in history. This world economic crisis is not in textbooks, neither by economists nor by other economic forces. I would like to give you a few more facts and facts. We have had to take about 12 trillion euros in stock exchange losses. There are less than 50 million jobs worldwide, with 600 000 to 700 000 unemployed people in Austria alone. The amount of money explodes, we may face inflation, hyperinflation due to the demand deficit, possibly also before a deflation phase. Industrial production is free of charge, there are thousands of workers placed on short work, and we can all imagine what happens if industry does not start again quickly. Then, out of this short working time, the termination will be very quick. And now Eastern Europe – already mentioned several times today, but these figures and data have to be seen several times: only over €200 billion in outstanding loans in Eastern Europe! And if “only” would hit about 10 percent of these outstanding loans, then I am convinced that the banks are very It'd be quick to get in the knee. In this case, the State would be massively required – and with it the taxpayer. This can and must not happen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] ‘FORMAT’ writes about this crisis: The massive collapse of the economy of Eastern Europe is taking place in Austria, with a focus on Austria. And the “Financial Times” even writes that a pleite of Austria is in the room. This is not as devious and incredible as some may imagine here. All economists and business professionals are now fully aware of the situation. I would also like to present a quote from George Soros here: I have expected the crisis to reach the edge of the abyss, but we are still marching. That is why we demand from the liberals – and with this I now want to hit the bridge to the Federal Government – a far more extensive package than was introduced here by the Federal Government, namely on the one hand, a more massive tax reduction. People in this country just have to keep more money in the wallet. It is ultimately a question of strengthening demand. People in this country should be able to afford something. We've heard it a few times today: These two billions are nothing at all, because they do not even compensate for the cold progression and even the inflation of recent years. On the other hand, we have proposed a number of other points, including the requests made by our clubman: The abolition of the NOVA, for example, is always a topic. We need to discuss the half-life or the entire loss of VAT rates. We also need to discuss rapidly the extension of tax deductibility. A very important point is also the increase in the quota for research and development and in the field of education. To this end, we have considered another point, namely that we, as top politicians, but also senior officials in the Republic, should make a contribution to solidarity. That is why I am now putting in place a resolution on the reduction of political relations and the involvement of senior officials by 4 per cent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council a government proposal without delay, which provides that: 1. The salaries for the functions mentioned in BezBegrBVG and BBezG are reduced by 4 percent. 2. The automatic annual adjustment of these salaries in accordance with § 3 of the BezBegrBVG no longer takes place. 3rd. The salaries of senior officials, officials and contract staff of the federal, state and local authorities and all other institutions of the ‘protected area’ are reduced by 4 percent.” Ladies and gentlemen, accept this motion for a resolution. It is a clear sign for the people of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e17141	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e17214	Next item is the report by Mr Matznetter. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e17236	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Part two of this tax package is, in turn, a reasonable measure, which this Federal Government sets out. Investments by companies operating domestically and engaged in employment here are precisely those taken by companies which are intended to facilitate and facilitate public administration, the state through fiscal measures, through support for financing. Unfortunately, we had – even there is a look into the past quite well – several years in our country, where there were no more tax investment benefits. Unfortunately, Mr Bucher is not here now; he has also voted in favour of their abolition. He also voted against the companies. And now there is a very reasonable proposal from the Austrian Federal Government, on which we will vote today, namely to introduce an early depreciation of 30 percent. This is a threefold sensible measure. First: In times of crisis, where there is a risk of companies resetting investment, I take courage as a public hand and say: Make your investment! Secondly, What is being invested today in better production technology, in a better service, often enough also in an ecologically better, namely energy-saving mode of production, strengthens companies especially in the crisis to compete with more modern production, with better working resources on the markets, in a difficult order situation. Thirdly, At the same time, this investment is part of the economic recovery, as equipment investment is also a key factor in the economy. Three good reasons for this measure, although I am not aware that I, as I have already said in the Committee, also in the government negotiations, wanted an even higher percentage than this 30 percent. But I have to say at the same time and also here compliment the Federal Government, here too there was an improvement from 25 to 30 percent. In principle, yes, right and fine. However, allow me to add a supplement to the colleague who has previously referred to the risk of Eastern Europe's investments. I don't think it's a good idea to come here and make the signal public that Austria is threatening a state bankruptcy that Austria is broken because a Eastern Europe risk would not be bearable by us. [[Call the FPÖ: ‘Financial Times’!]] The truth is: Even if the worst case were to occur and cover 20 percent of all Eastern Europe's risks, this part, which would be necessary by public authorities, by solid state finances, would be easy to cover by the power of our economy. We're not Iceland! And therefore, there is no reason to speak today about the fact that this state would have taken over in any form. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who's doing that?]] My previous speaker has painted the dangers on the wall, and I would like to reject that at this point – also in the interest of the credibility of our state – because that is exactly that flowering meadow, on which the rumors bloom, which then lead to exactly those spreads that you have criticized, Mr. Colleague. That is why we can only reject it. Hopefully it won't be so bad, but even if it were, our economy is robust enough. Thank you to our entrepreneurs, thanks to our employees, for they are the backbone that makes it possible for us to take such a course at all. The taxpayer in Austria is a good one, he is relieved today, but he is one who is right – and thanks to him for having the necessary means to do so in such crises. Thanks to the taxpayer!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e17289	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 11 to 13 of the agenda, so that the required procedure for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:07]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on ‘Education billions’ Part 1: Increased education budget by €525 million for 2009 and 2010 – Budget guarantee for education reforms (515/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e17319	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 515/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, his reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent application has the following wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e17394	I now give the floor to Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e17416	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate listeners! We are now discussing a urgent request for education in Austria. Granted, it is a difficult thing to create a budget in times like this. I can imagine that. In particular, it is difficult to assume that the Austrian economy is stagnating in the autumn, or that it may even achieve a slight increase, if it is based on completely false forecasts. Meanwhile, there are forecasts in view of which we can be happy if it becomes only one percent minus or 2% minus. They themselves always admit that this is a fishing in cloudy waters. It is, as has been said, a very difficult effort to create a budget in these times, especially if one is going to make a double budget, because fishing in the cloud is then extended not only to a year, but also to two years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, we should all have a priority in common, namely that investment in education must be a priority. In every economic situation, in every economic situation, saving in the education sector means saving on the future. The consensus on this should not be broken in this House today! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is particularly true in the light of the merciless data that the Austrian education system unfortunately has to show again and again in international comparisons, in statistics, in OECD rankings. The last years were characterized by a caputt-sparing course – that is to say, a caputt-sparing course à la Gehrer. We can all remember: The savings in the binding area have led to very devastating results. [[Abg. Amon: What was “shattering ”?]] We were all confronted with the devastating results of the PISA study, with “problem students”, so that many cannot read meaningfully. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] – You can then speak immediately. There are also terrifying numbers from the public schools, which are completely new. All of this is the result of continued savings, non-investment and non-reforms in education. That's a fact! You can also read this in all the statistics available in the field of education: continued savings in the “ratio to GDP”, continued savings in the “number ratio of students to teachers”, continued savings in total. Many have recognized this, and many have also made clear in recent years and have made clear promises – you too, Mrs Federal Minister! In this context, I would like to quote Gusenbauer – a wonderful sentence! –: Education policy is a question of survival for our country! Yes, you can only sign that! The absolute worst thing that has been done to Austria is the completely missing savings policy in the field of education in recent years. – Yes, you can sign that too! Then at last you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, were so softly knocked that you began to think about the class student maximum reduction. You even promised. And in the Lower Austrian election campaign there was even great posters to read: Class student peaks lowered! Bravo, Erwin Pröll! [[Abg. Hornek: That's it!]] That was not the case, and that will not be the case in the future, if you do not agree today with additional investment in education that we are calling for in our urgent request. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is a pity that German Chancellor Faymann is not there, who has also made himself very clear in the election campaign and also in the SPÖ election programme. He said that it would be devastating to have a small-scale discussion in the field of education policy. Yeah, that's right! But what are we doing now? . We are now essentially having a small-scale discussion. We discuss over two hours more presence of teachers in schools, but not the major educational issues. This is the dilemma of education policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One of the most bitter findings and also the most bitter figures we have in the field of youth unemployment, which you all, I think, are watching with great concern. This not only affects young people between 15 and 18 years of age – as you know, 8,000 young people every year come to the labour market, who do not have a compulsory education degree – but it is now enough to enter a much higher age group, up to 25, 26, 27, 28. That's a disaster! We can't take that! Today's decision to invest more money in the education system means avoiding youth unemployment in the future and giving young people better opportunities in the labour market. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Economic Affairs should sit in the waiting room of the Minister of Education and wait for more investment, as Alexander Van der Bellen has always said. What discussion do we have now? – The two Secretary of State for Finance and Lopatka are the accountants of this country, and they are actually on the road, but unfortunately in a negative sense – nothing against accountants, that is an honorable profession! – because investing in education now would be a necessity instead of saying: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This Njet is what we want to talk to you today, Mrs Minister. It means: Everyone's the same! In times in which everyone has to be saved, all have to make their contribution! – The managers are not, by the way, because the SPÖ is against a limitation of manager salaries. [[Abg. Head: That's not how it is!]] But the teachers must make their contribution. Mrs. Schmied, I already wonder: What is the idea of supporting education policy measures on opinion polls in the population rather than supporting them in terms of education policy? To play a professional group against the others, that's really last-class. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's been below your level. Really! I didn't understand the meaning. Many of you know the situation in schools, but some of you obviously do not know it, because what you, Mr Stadler, have done here in the morning, by putting flat-rate teachers – by the way, 70 percent of them are women – as pragmatized lazy people who should spend more time in school is an evil slander of people who do a lot of work and deal with great difficulties in an area where a lot of people work together. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Teachers! The trade unionists, not the teachers!]] This is such a low appreciation that you have absolutely disqualified yourself for any material discussion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Teachers, teachers are not the enemies, but they are the partners for reforms in the education system. You, Mr Stadler, should probably be given a journey of time to the Middle Ages for your birthday, where you can whip and torture people who do not fit into your world view. I had to say that here today, because that was really a devastating defamation of people who do quite, quite, very important in this society. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are now discussing the two-hour increase in the teaching obligation for teachers. And what is actually the core of the problem? – There were a whole series of... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] You obviously like the journey to the Middle Ages. Witches can also be burned in this century. [[Abg. May. Stadler: If you come with me, I'll be there!]] We are now talking, as has been said, about increasing the teaching obligation for teachers by two hours. But what is it really about? – There was a very clear, massive political promise, both by the ÖVP and by the SPÖ, that the top-class students would be reduced. This promise was even documented. The Minister of Education itself gives a much broader bouquet of promises: New secondary school in all federal states, expansion of day care, language support, mother-speaking education, more training places, especially in vocational schools, small groups, individual funding. Yes, we want to sign all this, that we want it all, that all needs our children and young people – but then you, Mrs Minister, need more money, then there must be a priority in the budget for education! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What with these two hours more of teaching time is actually to be created in additional quality, to explain that you have remained guilty to us to this day, Mrs Federal Minister. Is this a quality measure? We know about the problems. We also know that this can only be done in connection with an overall concept. No one argues that there are also teachers who are less committed in this area. But what better if you simply put up with two hours of teaching for the less dedicated teachers? Does that make anything better for the children? They are thereby punishing those involved who are preparing to rework, invest the time in the advice of the students available to them, i.e., invest a lot of time in school. These motivated teachers punish you with this. It would lead to a crisis in any company if one punished those who are motivated. These are especially young staff, who are contract staff who are also afraid of their job. Many young women say: Okay, I was a karenz representative now, can I continue to work in school, or is that what is now being discussed a job reduction program? Does this mean a recording stop for young teachers? Does that even mean a stop in the public service? I have this suspicion, since the budget has obviously been declared a secret project, in order not to allow important discussions before the budget is adopted. My concern or our concern is that this is a stop in the public service. This is a very devastating and dramatic mistake, especially in times of growing unemployment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We can also discuss the working conditions of teachers! – On average, there is a workplace of 0.25 square meters per teacher. That's pretty little. It is hard to imagine that you can correct something in peace and prepare the lesson, possibly even using an internet connection. In addition, there is no way to prepare a warm meal, which should be possible if you go home by four or half five. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This is how teachers' working conditions look! A hundred teachers in an AHS have a conference room. In many schools, when you call, the director or the school guard stops, because administrative activities are primarily carried out by teachers and not, for example, – and this would be a more efficient variant in economic terms – by secretarial staff. Let us talk about the working conditions of teachers and how we could improve them! We should finally take this into consideration. If you want to, you have to say: Yes, there must be more investment in education – now and not only in two, three years or only in 2020! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The great promise of reducing the number of students is probably the budget problem that you now want to solve with these two hours of extra work for teachers. Although you have committed yourself to this, although this is also committed, this is only slow and many areas of it are not yet covered. As an example, I would like to mention the whole field of higher education. Whether this is the HTL, whether it is the HAK, whether it is the Higher Federal Teaching Institutes, it still sits there up to 36 young people in one class. There is a 50 percent drop-out rate there, which is really bitter. But what is the point of helping them when teachers who are completely overwhelmed are in class for two hours? – They have not been helped with this! You should really seriously consider a concept and also a framework, instead of having an unprepared and helpless discussion, where you can't win from my point of view. I ask you: Are you talking about decent jobs? Do you also stand for infrastructure expansion? Are you in favour of the schools being designed differently than they have been before? Stand You are also in full-day care, so that we can also deal with the problem of remedial aid to a certain extent? It is €150 million that parents – especially those who can afford it – will have to pay for assistance in the current system, but also many who cannot afford it. Do you also have more support for those who need it? How do you deal with all these questions? – If you answer them with a yes, you must say: In this sense, our two State Secretarys are saying a fool! We want more money for education, right now, and we will therefore also agree with this urgent request from the Greens. They were so proud of the impact of the tax reform this morning, where you think that 10 000, 12 000 and 13 000 jobs can be additionally secured. They could create threefold jobs by means of direct investment in education – ranging from kindergarten education to universities – with the same volume as in tax reform. The highest employment rate is in direct employment in the public sector. We have many open construction sites. I do not want to mention the entire kindergarten, which is probably the largest construction site. But we could actually secure in the long term in times like these jobs and thus ensure the necessary quality for young people in this country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They're all beautiful things. Now the question: How do you stand on the right to serve? – A new right of service for teachers has already been promised dozens of times. This promise already has a long beard. It was always said to flatten the pay curve. – Mr Amon is already suffering because I am now praying to him for his promises in recent years and he knows that he has not yet fulfilled them. [[Abg. Amon: No, not at all, Mrs. Colleague!]] You're not suffering? But they look so suffering. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: This is a false impression, Mrs. Colleague!]] It said: the two and a half times at the end of the income curve, higher entry salaries. This means that this would be a bit more expensive now, but in the medium term it is the only reasonable alternative to unify the right to serve, the right to pay, the training, because that would mean an improvement. However, there is also a need to include teachers and kindergarten teachers. Do you know what a kindergarten teacher deserves after ten years of service? – This is not covered by the discharge by the tax reform! It earns only €1,200 after ten years of service. I think that's a real scandal! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Haubner.]] This is an area that should be most important to us. Earlier than I was sitting at the Bureau, I always smiled when anyone from ÖVP or SPÖ said the sentence: Children are our highest good! Prove it now! Give more reward to those who do incredible work for children between three and six years of age! They get less in Vienna than the so-called garbage dumpers. Putting waste on is a very hard work, yes, but childcare is also a very hard work. Let us therefore take the kindergarten teachers into a new salary right and finally give them a little more appreciation also in financial form! They actually deserve them. Voices Therefore, you have to submit our request today! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This debate has shown that either you are not ready or you are unable to set a priority in the field of education. You have set priorities in the last few months of your government, but there has been no discussion, for example, of whether certain non-systemic banks should be exempted from the bank guarantee package, for example the Constantia Privatbank, minimum deposit of 40 000 to 50 000 €. This is a bank exclusively for the top ten thousand. And we support them! – Yes, okay, you could have discussed AUA too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] This is simply necessary, because the railway is over: half a billion euros for the AUA, that's just important! [[Abg. Hornek: Show an alternative!]] But why is education not important? – I can show you many alternatives. For example, you have decided a tax reform without considering any counter-financing measures. [[Abg. Hornek: That's not true!]] All experts tell you: We can take a number of counter-financing measures! You could take care of the entire asset area once. They could demand a solidarity award from the best-earners in Austria. But no, instead, people with the highest incomes – that's 10 percent – get 500 million through the tax reform. The top 10 percent, the top ten! In view of this, you say: Where are the alternatives? They're on the table! [[Abg. Hornek: I asked you about alternatives to the AUA!]] It's not that easy. This is a matter of priorities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course you can say that the AUA is important. [[Abg. Hornek: Is she too!]] Of course! The Constantia Privatbank is also important from your point of view. But then to say: Education just doesn't get any more money, because everyone has to make a contribution now!, I'm sorry, I don't understand – and nobody else understands that! [[Abg. Head: Education is getting more money!]] Today you have the opportunity to make a very necessary and important correction by agreeing to an education billion for the next two years. This would also be used to combat youth unemployment, which is further thought out, and would now help to combat the unemployment of young teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e17736	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Schmied spoke on the issue of an opinion. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e17758	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Dr. Glavischnig, I would like to refer directly to your speech and to your request and I would like to try to outline my vision of the future of school. What does my positive view of the future look like? – The one I’m looking for is the big educational projects. Their implementation is the goal of my work. In my vision of the future, the school is a place of common learning and not just a place of teaching. The objectives of the school – you have outlined some in your application – are very clear to me. We must ensure that young people's success in education in Austria is no longer "inherited" that they no longer depend on the educational status of their parents, on their origin, especially on the social origin of their parents. We have to make it happen that everyone – and I really mean everyone! – potentials of society are used. We must not leave a child behind, be it because it comes from socially weaker circles or because it has migration backgrounds. [[Conspicuousness with SPÖ and greens as well as with the Abg. Amon.]] We have to do it – and this has to be done simply by the public school system – that after completing compulsory schooling, basic skills are best anchored in young people's reading, writing and computing, because only in this way can we talk about life-long learning later on. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] We need to make sure that education and vocational decisions are successful. High drop-out ratios, but also the very high number of school dropouts must belong to the past. We must make it possible for teachers and teachers to be able to move within schools, but they can also switch to other professional careers, because if we speak to teachers of Burnout very often today, then this may be in the truest sense an outrage, because one may not be satisfied and happy in this profession, but see no other alternative. And we must succeed in strengthening the self-reliance, self-confidence and self-confidence of the students. A school, as I imagine it, is the best way to address the talents and talents of young people. This presupposes that teachers are also well trained in their diagnostic ability. Top performances – we need top performances in Austria in order to rise – need a broad basis. Not the selection with the words: You don't fit us! – we continuously select in the course of the career of young people whether they get the status as an extraordinary student, whether they are stamped with the special educational need, whether they come to the special school or are selected in individual school types – but the individual promotion and discovery of the gifts must be in the foreground, borne by a human image of appreciation. Teachers have a very central role to play in this. In my school of the future, the teacher is primarily required with the educational but also with the human competences. You will become a companion of the students. [[Abg. Oils: That's great anyway!]] The relationship work is in the foreground, and education standards, regular tests, but also a valued feedback culture will ensure performance and ensure the quality level in school. [[Abg. Oillinger: How do we get there?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The game that is played today very often in connection with school, namely: Who's to blame: Students, parents or teachers?, this game will no longer exist in the school of the future, but it is about a living school partnership that has the big goal in mind together. The management of the school – I am very glad that this was already mentioned in the morning – is free of double track in this future model. School location, regional school authority, ministry, these are the three levels that should be sufficient. The central resource management is carried out throughout Austria with state-of-the-art planning and control instruments. The most important thing, however, is the clear responsibility at the school location. The position of the headmaster shall be subject to appropriate training or qualifications prior to the application. The best or longest-serving teachers need not necessarily be the best teachers. The position of the headmaster should be awarded for five years, just as we already have in the case of management functions in the public service, for example, and the headmaster, which I think is very central and important, must have personnel responsibility. [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Jury]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Organisational developers at the educational universities are available for school development projects to accompany development processes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] The school should be designed, but not managed. [[In between, call the abg. May. Lunacek.]] In this context, of course, it is also about the best-suited jobs for teachers. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: But how do you get there?]] Training for all those working in the teaching profession should be based on the skills and requirements of teachers and at the respective age levels and carried out at the tertiary level; the further qualification of teachers at the site – best possible. And, of course, it should also be possible to make professional changes. I also think it is central that we open the school for cross-border students, that we also provide vocational training courses, because one is, I think, also definitely: [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Jury]] Especially the school would be very good if more people worked in school, who had already met other working worlds. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Yes, but we know all of that!]] The new right of employment and remuneration should be directed according to the work, the place of work of the teacher, and the working time should be shifted very clearly towards work at school and with the children. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: And how do you want to achieve this?]] In this context, of course, it is also about making entry salaries more attractive, so that we can also win more men for the teaching profession. In conjunction with a stronger commitment and more presence in school, this is also financially and manageable, because it is also about the efficiency of the school system. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: It's not bad for women to earn more!]] Early promotion, day-care, small group lessons – Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig has already described this –, promotion lessons, team lessons, individual promotion, language promotion, all day schools should be forced, and I am very much in favour of opening the school to other professional groups: for artists, for social workers, for athletes. [[Abg. Oillinger: But where are we now?]] So looks, roughly sketched, my vision of the future from school, my reform project, and on the way there, there are many steps to take. [[Abg. Oils: Save!]] One thing is clear to me: A delay or a stopover of reforms is not possible. They have themselves quoted Pisa, Pirls, EU, OECD studies: rising unemployment, especially in less well-trained people. That is, it is important for us to continue offensively in the field of education. If there is a tight budget, also against the background of economic developments, and if I am in favour of the decision: If I continue these measures, do I implement these measures in order to get a little closer to my vision of the future? Then, I say, structural reform, the increase in the teaching obligation is a reasonable contribution that I can also demand from my most important staff, the teachers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] I would like a competitive, publicly funded education system that highlights performance, quality, creativity and, above all, equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e18002	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr. Dr. Walser. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e18029	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! That was just disappointment for us now. Mrs Minister, you have us. Her vision of the future – which is very nice – can be presented by a rector of a pedagogical university at the beginning of a year of study to hungry students – but this is a urgent request! [[Call the SPÖ:Request!]] We have specific questions, we have formulated specific concerns about this school system, and we have also mentioned specific figures in this request – but we have not received a single answer! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: Mr Colleague, this is a request, not a question!]] Mrs Minister, this is not the right way to deal with this House, it is not the right way to deal with this issue, which is a central topic of our country's future! You should measure yourself by what you yourself have written in the Government Declaration, namely that the future of our country is decided in the classroom. – If that goes on, I see black for our future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the spot, teachers know what to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume you have been flooded with e-mails in the last few days, in which concerned colleagues, teachers and very, very many parents have spoken. The statements are all going in the same direction. I would just like to remind you of an e-mail that you received last night, at 8:38 p.m., signed by seven teachers, proposing structural measures, which are all right and which you, Mrs. Minister, could all implement. Mrs. Dr. Schmied, you've been a Minister of Education for two years, and we finally want to see the concept. That this is not a simple job, I know. I also do not want to have to negotiate with Mr Neugebauer, with the ÖAAB, with the last concrete fraction, which is in addition to the Freedom Party, which does not move in this question. [[Abg. Strache: Don’t say “skulls ”!]] That's clear. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So, where can we save money? – Make You finally take steps towards common school of all 10 to 14-year-olds! This saves us a lot of money in view of the current double-tracks. I am still reading from this e-mail: no more triglyness – gymnasium, primary school, new secondary school – common teacher training, uniform service provider. You will announce all of this without any concrete steps and especially without your partner's consent. School administration – in Vienna alone, the Court of Auditors has told us about 40 million savings potential. Where are the steps there? - Nothing happens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But what you want to do is save at the expense of teachers. Mrs. Minister, you have told us where you want to go – there we can support you. We want to go there too, but the current situation is different. At present, the number of requests is exploding, as is the case with school psychology: plus 10 percent in Vorarlberg, for example. There are waiting times at school psychology. I only bring the example Bregenz: 57.6 days. That's what I'm looking at, parents have a problem, teachers have a problem with a child, look at school psychology, and then it says: Please wait! Two months to wait! What about the problem then, we can imagine that. The number of school references increases dramatically: plus 50 percent in Vorarlberg. Of course, compulsory schools are particularly affected. – The questions to school psychology, look at this: Dyscalculie, Legasthenia, but of course also what we call social constipations. “Social conspicuousness” is a nice expression, but those who are in school know what that means. Go over Burn Out Syndrome She's so elegant – Mr. Stadler, who's not here now, or the Freedom Party... – He's got something else to do now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler, standing in the ranks of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: He's already at the ÖVP!]] You need to look at that on site. These are the challenges currently facing our teachers and where they urgently need help where they need your help. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] - We don't get it right now. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have announced that we need education. – Of course we need these. Of course, the administration must be harmonised. But where, please, are the steps there? If we'd already done that, we'd have a lot more money now. So: The Court of Auditors, OECD, IHS, the Schilcher Commission – and indeed with remarkable results – are all coming to the same conclusion: We urgently need these financial resources. We need them for early promotion, for day-to-day schools, for smaller classes, for organized training. In this respect too, the Court of Auditors has confirmed that nothing has gone forward in recent years. In this context, the Court of Auditors' report did not, in particular, have any consequences. You, Mrs Federal Minister, have caught up with all these issues, but have not proposed any specific action in recent times. The only concrete: Teachers must teach two hours more! - That can't be it. Our teachers didn't deserve that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today Barack Obama has often been quoted – yes, let's go back a little further in American history: We need a new deal for education. That would offer itself in times like this. The first project we can propose in this context: Finally, put concrete measures in the direction of all day school! It's a job engine. The regional economy is being promoted, as small businesses are promoted. That's what we have to do now. And these are projects that are all “baureif”. However, it also needs a corresponding commitment. Everyone agrees in recent times: Christian Havranek, Christiane Spiel, Bernd Schilcher, all have said the same, everyone has said what we want. Of course, the hypocrisy of this coalition is evident when we look at what the social partners say – supposedly the secret government in this Republic. Yes, the social partners agree. I would like to recall the Bad Ischler Dialogue, a joint declaration by all the social partners. And that would interest me, gentlemen of the Economic Federation, gentlemen of the union, as you say, because this is signed by Christoph Leitl, that is still signed by Rudolf Hundstorfer at the time, that is signed by the President of the Chamber of Agriculture, and in it is specifically called for the common school of the 10- to 14-year-olds and the immediate introduction of the all-day school. Are you opposed to your President, or are you at last ready to take action in this direction, which is important? Magic word autonomy. – You, Mrs Minister, say: Of course, we need more autonomy; of course, we need the opportunity for directors to take action, we need the responsibility to be taken. That is why we have tabled this urgent request. I would also like to make a motion for a resolution which proposes a reform plan for Austria in the school sector. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Minister, finally take action in this direction, and I can guarantee you that we are green on your side! We are on the side of the students and colleagues at the schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e18177	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e18248	Mr Dr. Walser, I would like to ask you, in the last part-sessions, to give the word ‘hypocritical’ a call for order, and to call on all, including you, not to use this word here in this Chamber. Next, Mr Mayer. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e18274	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to correct Mr Walser's statement a little at the outset, as he has spoken about a urgent request. This is, after all, an urgent request from his group, which he has now extended by part 2. The Minister has been very detailed and has addressed in particular point 2 of your request, namely what her visions are of what the future of the school should look like. I believe that this has been very urgent and expressly explained. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] It is true, Mr Walser is right, and I assume that it has not only happened to all the teachers but also to many other Members, at least from your region, who have also received e-mails, who have been asked: What are you doing? How's that going? These are quite concerned emails – not only by teachers, parents, but even by students who turn to us and say: Please, high sensitivity to this topic! I know a lot of teachers, I work with many teachers and I know that the vast majority of them are idealists who have become teachers from vocation, not because they have been looking for a job and have thought in the decision that they may then have more freedom than others – and that is to be formulated very carefully again – who really want to move something that works for children and are there for them. That is why I would like to read the picture drawn today, especially by Mr Stadler of the BZÖ, as he believes teachers are. He knows a total of five good teachers, namely exactly those five who teach his children. The sixth child doesn't go to school yet, then perhaps a sixth teacher comes in. But everyone else isn't worth anything. I think it's quite, very important that when we talk about school, when we talk about teachers, we know what we're doing. And I'll say it in advance: I'm not a stand representative. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is about education competence. And if we want to make some progress in education, we do well to support those committed teachers – and I do not mean the concrete heads from the union group to attack no one, Madam President – who are really trying to do everything they can outside. No one has listened to the problems that the schools have to deal with. One has pointed out that there is an urgent need to do something, it becomes a little more difficult from year to year. No one has listened when it comes to the selection of the nine-year-olds and to the problems that one had in passing school and still has and is constantly strengthening. Or: No one has really been yelling – even the parents' representatives too little, who are now making themselves so strong – when it came to the reduction of lessons, especially for German. This has proven consequences for German and German reading. The next study also shows that the students have become weaker while reading. Of course it's related! If one is shortened for hours, less is taught in this area, then that is the consequence. We are responsible for better early promotion, for a fight against social selection and for improved teacher training. We need to improve these things! They can't show that to the teachers outside, they can only show them, and they can. That's why I'm inviting everyone to what you said this morning. All welcomed the actions of our minister: smaller classes, smaller groups, better language promotion, better teacher training was put on track. All these measures are welcomed. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Your demand!]] And if we want to, we must also take the second step, namely to finance it accordingly. This is, of course, a matter of great urgency. What can you do now? . I am a very strong follower of the fact that measures are even being put forward in the field of service reform. It is already too late anyway, but you have to start immediately, not only in the school year 2009/2010. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes!]] What are we doing about the reform of the service law? It's like this: We see this picture that over the next ten years of the 120 000 teachers we have, about 60 000 will retire. These are the ones where you can say that they earn more than the average, that is, almost $4,000. But for those who start at €1 400 net – converted to the pure hours they teach the children, they don't even earn €15 per hour – there we have to put on the lever, there we also have to put in more budget resources. And that is possible, if we see it in the longer term, not to the years 2009/2010, but to the next five, six years. If we make this bill nationally, it will be clear very quickly: This can be financed. We can not only think of young teachers with a better education and smaller classes for more hours, but that is a whole new challenge, and that is also financeable. If you know this development that opens up in the school sector, it is very important that we also work together to find a way to bridge over the next two years. This is the 2009/2010 budget. This is about how we can drive up the missing €500 million that we all supported together this morning. These measures are important and should remain. How can we finance these? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] There are three proposals. One is that the Minister of Finance, which I believe he would be obliged to do, makes available the necessary resources. If this is not possible, there is a second way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] One of them was shown by the Minister of Education. Then you have to see how to change the structure, at least temporarily for one, two years. And if that's not feasible, you have to look at how different it can be. Then the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is invited to say what their ideas look like. To the EIA – in that case, I really have to address the group of the Finance Minister –: You have the power of money, you have the opportunity to say we make it available because it is important to us to have smaller classes, because we need a better promotion. You have this possibility. And if you say this is not budgetary, you have to organize it differently, please tell us what your actions are! And I expect this answer from you today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e18361	Mr Amon has now come to speak. 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e18382	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To Mr Mayer and also to Mr Dringlichen's request, I should like to say: Mr Walser, you have not asked any questions to the Federal Minister today, but you have made a request here. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I have put some of her! I can do that!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: It is also a request and no request, “Mister MBA”!]] That's very interesting, I quote from the request: “The education budget for 2009 is a total of 7.2 billion according to the latest media reports. Euro, that would be 390 million. Euro more than in 2008. In 2010, the figure is expected to be an additional 55 million. Euro’s rise. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The salary cuts!]] That is your request, and that is at the same time the answer to Mr Mayer's questions. It is a little early today to vote on the budget. [[Abg. Brosz: You already know that the salary increase is inside?- Oh, my God!]] You already want to change budget figures that are not yet on the table. You know, it's only on the 21st. April is the budget speech of the Minister of Finance. [[Calls to the Greens.]] That would actually be the right time for such an application, because then you can only say whether the budget fits or not. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Parliament is the right place!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Secret Budget!]] But I can tell you today – the Minister for Education has also indicated this and then confirmed it to the public – that she has a much higher budget than last year. Thank you, Minister of Finance! It is absolutely right to invest in education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Mayer, you can't do it so easily that you simply take the Minister of Finance to the point in every department, on every detail question, and you say that the EIA should do so. – It’s nice if you trust us with this solution expertise in all areas; we’re looking forward to it, but it’s not that simple. In fact, if it was expressly agreed between the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor that global budgets should be negotiated, and Mrs Bundesminister Schmied gives her agreement to the budget by hand, then it is already her task to take the right measures within the framework of the budget, and not the task of the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. May. Stadler: So, so, she was!]] I would like to say that clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm just speaking The Social Democrats once again said: In normal labour law in the private sector, it would be unthinkable for the employer to extend working time unilaterally. Unthinkable! [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Adventure!]] Even if the Federal Legislator were to amend the Working Time Act, the agreement of the social partners under collective agreements would require a change in working time. [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: Your proposals on the table!]] I would like to say the following: What is true in the private sector will probably also have to be applied in the public service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Mayer, I would like to say something to you, because in the economic crisis there is a demand for a solidarity of teachers: If that is embedded in an overall concept and we are in a dramatic situation, no one will withdraw from a solidarity measure. But I'd like to tell you one thing: The Federal Government is trying, both government parties, to keep unemployment as low as possible. That's why a lot of money is taken in order to enable short-time work in the enterprises – I say consciously: allow. That this is not an advantage for the employees in the companies, that is no question. But there is a lot of money going on, so that they can stay in employment. Here is a concept on the table that will produce the exact opposite. Mr Mayer, explain to me how this should work! If, at the same time as teaching time, each teacher's unaltered curriculum is two hours longer, we have 10,000 teachers in the federal government too much - 10,000 teachers in the federal government who are then put on the street and increase unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Then we have 10,000 unemployed!]] I mean, in times like this, it is the task of government members to avoid unemployment – and not to produce unemployment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Klubobfrau Glavischnig, I would also like to say a few things to you, because I have a problem with the debate as a whole, although it is true that there are problems in the education system there and there; there is no question at all. In Austria, we have a very high proportion of children with migration backgrounds; in this respect we have an incomparablely higher share than in other countries. And I admit that there is a war on how to deal with this problem properly. As far as this matter is concerned, we also pick up instructions from other countries, look at the situation in Finland, for example, where there are so-called migration classes – classes with relatively few children, who are so long in a migration class, until they master the teaching language Finnish. But this is not quite the same, because on average we have 12 to 14 percent children with migration background in our classes, and at some school locations even 80 or 90 percent of children have a migration background, which Finns have on the other hand, I think, 1.2 percent children with migration background. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Canada! Australia!]] So this is a completely different starting point. What bothers me in this debate is that the Austrian education system is being badly tried here. And that bothers me, because I do not believe that in these comparative studies, as they are called – no matter if the PISA is TIMSS or PIRLS – the knowledge of the children of a vintage is reviewed in a few subjects in one day. It then derives conclusions which are not allowed! [[Abg. Dr. Walser: There have been the same results for many years!]] One cannot derive a system discussion from a one-day review of the knowledge of children of a year in three subjects! In other studies – I am now addressing PISA and TIMSS, which are also testing the performance of folk school children – Austria is at least on the average of the countries tested. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: PISA is for 14-year-olds!]] Now, of course, we can say that we have a greater ambition – and that is right for me – and that's why it's all about Austria's children cutting off better at these tests in the future, yes – but that's why I reject the entire educational system and make it mad, I reject it categorically! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: We are not satisfied!]] Another thing: Although Austria is in a relatively dramatic situation as regards the development of unemployment, I am telling you that Austria has always been among the best three countries in the last two decades in all European comparative studies on youth unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: has fallen in educational expenditure!]] This must also have something to do with our education system; it does not happen simply by chance! Have departures and departures from our schools – thank God! – a high chance in the labour market. This is also the task of an education system – and it is not only a question of learning to land in the middle of international comparison studies, but also in the upper third. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: You can't read the statistics!]] - I know the statistics very well. We should give teachers more restraint especially at a time when children are becoming increasingly difficult – for this there are the most diverse social reasons, and I lack the time to talk about it now – because they really have the most valuable of a country on their hands – even if this formulation leads to confusion, as Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig said today. [[Abg. Strache: Is it part of ÖVP's social policy?]] I think it's actually like this: Teachers have the most important aspects of our society, namely youth. That is why it is completely wrong to carry out any conflicts on the back of the teachers. This is not a solidarity measure in an economic crisis, but simply a question of how the Federal Minister's budget is going to end. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You must do this to Mr. Faymann!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Where do we want to go?]] I call on all those involved to take back public positions, to sit at a table and to try to find a proper solution. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] Mr Walser, even if you say you do not want to negotiate with us: I would like to do this with you, because I have no reservations about you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e18734	Next, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e18755	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! For the second time this day, the subject of education moves us, and the confessions I take seriously, because I think it's not lip confessions, I hear very well. We have heard of the plans, of the image of the future, which Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied has designed – and unfortunately we must note that the only thing that is currently being done to implement this image, which is very great, very large, very significant, very state-bearing, very forward-looking, looks just so that teachers are to teach for two hours longer. Everything else that has been addressed in this context is not in the slightest place on the table either. I am somehow under the impression of the terrible event that today in Germany there has been an amok race at a school with 16 dead, including three teachers and two passersby; even the perpetrator, a former student, has directed himself. – This is something that God has not yet happened to us in schools, but I refer to where in Austria violence is practiced not only among the students – anyway bad enough – but also by students of teachers. In my home town of Krems, the school director was beaten by a student with a baseball bat. [[Abg. Hornek: A good friend of mine!]] This issue has not yet been addressed. Mr Walser said that the question of burn-out had not been raised by the BZÖ or by the liberals. – Mr Walser, do you not read our press releases on this subject? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The speech was clear!]] We see the issue of burn-out among teachers as a problem, and we are aware that this is a very serious issue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact is that, quite specifically, the proposals that come from the Greens towards the overall school, but also from the whole day school, as you may think the children should be given a child care facility much earlier –: [[Abg. Strache: From the cradle to the Bahre were brought up communistally!]] Education systems, as they were on the agenda in the GDR, do not really need to be with us in Austria! In this respect, there is no negotiation with you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What we see is that the social status of the teaching profession has become considerably less. At least some of you know this from stories: There the village school teacher after the priest was the most respected person who had given it in the village. It's not like that anymore! Unfortunately, God so to speak, leaves the teaching profession in public opinion. And this debate, which Mrs. Schmied recently launched in the media, was not to improve the status of teachers, although there are, of course, ambitious, motivated and performance-oriented teachers – and not “teachers”, as Alois Brandstetter puts it in his novel “At the expense of the penitents”. The performance-oriented teachers are those teachers who are now engaged in reporting directly to the parties and are surprised at what is happening over their heads. While many economists say that education is an unlikelyly strong engine for our economy, I believe that an increase in financial resources in the school resort, which actually exists, has been made only for the purpose of primarily promoting the construction industry, by what is necessary, the money primarily flows into the maintenance or construction of schools. There is no increase in financial resources in terms of staff! On the contrary! This controversial measure will then be put in place with additional lessons. To this end, everything leads to frustration in teaching – and I remember the debate this morning in the current hour –: the politicalization of the teaching profession. This certainly has not contributed to the fact that the state of teaching is in a particularly good situation. In this connection, I remember my time as a municipal councillor – Mr Sacher of the SPÖ Group was there too – when there were two vice-presidents in a municipal council group who were teachers, the majority in the city Senate were teachers, and the third strongest group in the municipal council, just behind ÖVP and SPÖ, were also teachers. There is already something about it that some teacher takes more time, more leisure time to be active and disproportionately represented in other professional fields. [[Abg. May. Stadler: On the tennis court!]] It may then be that teachers who then supply for these colleagues, who then have to jump in for them, are very nervous – and precisely these are also waiting for solutions to this question. It was mentioned by the Federal Minister that children need to learn more about cultural techniques, i.e. reading, computing, writing. – This is difficult if today’s curriculum often contains only more things like now’s different action days: Day of the tree, day of water, day of apple. On these days it is actually taught according to a principle as expressed by the educational scientist Marian Heitger by saying: They used to ask the children when they got out of school: Have you learned anything? Today the children are asked: Did you feel good? This is the problem in that, in fact, it is not at all taken into account that learning and learning content are being taught, but that something is somehow done business-by-business, without paying attention to education. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Teachers say to me: An evil, the school autonomous days! For example, if this occurs in months where holidays are on Thursdays, i.e. in May, June, and then school autonomous days are introduced, it may happen that because of the Gehrer’s hourly reduction, a teacher actually does not see his class through four weeks at all. These are things that just can't take place – and there is the frustration of the teachers! I am referring to a number of other points, and we have also tabled a motion for a resolution which is distributed on the basis of the length of time, concerning ‘basic reforms in education – instead of a scapegoat policy’, whereby we assume: We really want a longer-term and immediate clarification of the problems ahead. We want to negotiate with the decision-makers that an overall package is coming to the table, but no consolations to the future, that there will be a new right of service at some point in two years, a new right of remuneration, but now the teachers should be in class for two hours – without a goal, without a plan, without any concrete qualitative benefit.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e18874	The motion for a resolution which has just been submitted in the core areas is sufficiently supported. Since there is a request from the Free Party for distribution of this request, I submit this request and leave it in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall distribute this request to the members of the National Council. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19040	Next, Mrs Haubner spoke with a desired speaking time of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19061	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If we remember the debate this morning and even now, I believe, we must note that with regard to education reform and what is best for the school, this discussion is simply too short if we speak only about these two hours. It also takes too short a time when there is a place between the government's partners and debt allocations. I would suggest that the Coalition Committee be convened, that you clarify this and that we here in Parliament really talk specifically about what our school needs, what our students need. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We need investment first and foremost. This is a key word, but it is a statement that is very striking in education policy: We need educational investment, we need financial investment, we need organizational investment, which is in the interests of pupils. Then: Our young people need to be individually demanded and encouraged, our young people must be able to learn successfully in school, accompanied by teachers who are best trained, who have the head free for the educational work that teaches with joy and – whatever is very important to me personally – who like their students. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen in the House, Mrs. Federal Minister, there is a quick need for a general concept, a general reform – and not that there is always something to discuss in a piece and then something is taken around on the back of the children and on the back of the teachers. If we don't finally start now, when? Every restructuring, including in the school system – we agree that one more, the other less: we need it! –, lasts at least ten years. And if we move again, we move it to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. This general reform is long overdue, and we need these investments, like a sustainable economic package, as we did for the economy. That is why I do not fully understand this mystery about the budget. 390 billion € more seems to be available in the 2009 budget this year. If that's the case, I understand you... - Sorry, millions. [[Abg. Riepl: millions, not billions!]] Thank you, my colleague. 390 million € more in the budget. I am sure that with these additional resources you will not find the way out; therefore, I believe, we need a large increase in the education budget in general. We from the BZÖ have also prepared a corresponding request, in which we say that we need €2 billion for the next five years so that all that we all want to do can: that the low number of school students will maintain that new models of the school will be introduced, that there is more support system for teachers. I'm just thinking about it, Mrs. Federal Minister: You've announced that this morning there's more psychologists, more school psychologists. – I can only tell the media again that this is not the case that there will no longer be school psychologists this year – but that we urgently need. That is why our motion for a resolution, as has been said, is a school reform and economics proposal, and I can inform you now: The National Council wants to decide: ...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19120	Your request is very long. I'd like to be willing to distribute it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19135	Good. Then I will just quote the essentials of the proposal. So what is very important to us? – The school must be a good workplace not only for students but also for teachers, as a living and as an educational area. I think it must be the spatial design for administrative and pedagogical purposes accordingly. There must be good computer equipment and a corresponding office standard. And I think it is important that this spatial equipment is also possible to provide day care. We are against a comprehensive compulsory day care, but we are in favour of ensuring that good daily care offers are also available where they are needed, where they are accepted, and that, as part of this day care, more support is given to the children who need it. [[OBJECTIVES]] What else do we need? – We have also made this quite clear in our motion for a resolution: We need a new right of service and remuneration for educators and educators. To this end, it is important to define the activities of educators and educators, all of which are included – that is, we are also again on the subject of working time. We need a flattening of the income curve. And we also need regulations as regards attendance at school as well as the presence in holiday periods. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A third area, which is also very important to us, is the general reform of the Austrian school system towards efficient school management. We are particularly concerned that the responsibilities which are now distributed at so many levels – at local level, at national level, at federal level – are not carried on in this form, but that these responsibilities are simplified; that is, that is, that the Federation is responsible for the legislation and the countries for enforcement. At present, as has been said, we have these different levels and, among other things, also the different school holders. The fact that a lot can be developed in class itself, much can be rethinked and thought must be remembered, is also evident in the fact that we need the so-called daily movement unit very necessary. We know from various studies, from the experience of the doctors, that our children simply have too little exercise; this also depends on the diet. I think a block in this area should be devoted to good, healthy nutrition. Also an educational subject with corresponding daily activity units at all levels would be, among other things, an important preventive announcement in a new class. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Similarly, the clear separation of administration and teaching. I would like to stress this once again because it is always compared with Finland or with the Nordic states. That's the case already. And then you can really compare. But we also need an administrative support system if this is to be implemented. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The development towards the new common school of the 6- to 15-year-olds also needs to be continued – for the various reasons that talk about children being better accompanied there in terms of their performance, their demand and their promotion. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, not only the communication of knowledge is in the foreground in the coming years and also in the present, but also, above all, that children develop their own initiative, that children develop social competence, that they learn to think networked, and above all can solve problems. We have to let that happen, we have to work on it! Then, I think our children will also have the best-developed opportunities for their future. Take advantage of this crisis, Mrs Federal Minister, which we are currently having as an opportunity. You see, in the high house you have many who support you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19218	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Haubner has been sufficiently explained, has also been sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I have this request distributed in accordance with Article 53 of the Rules of Procedure. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19455	Next, Mr Brosz. 7 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19476	Madam President. Mrs Bundesminister, you do not make it really easy for one to discuss this urgent request with you today. At the time of reply I thought, I know now at least what the € 100 000 for PR consultation is spent on. Whether they're well-designed, that's another question, because: The expectation that, if one makes a urgent request, something is said at least about the core of the request, I believe, is already justified on the part of an opposition party. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We hear an intense discussion between you and Finance Minister Pröll – who should have taken place on the government bank at least today, because he has a lot of interest in the fact that there will apparently not be the necessary money in the educational budget – but you do not address the central issue at all. You will give us a speech here that I can sign in many areas – everyone will be able to see beautifully what's inside in beautiful pictures; every school reform commission has de facto come out a similar picture as to what we need. For years, however, very little has happened in the school system. The only thing for which you, I believe, have rightly been shown a lot of sympathy at the beginning of your term of office was that you said you wanted to change something. However, this is only a certain period of time to talk about change and then not at last to take concrete action. If the so-called New Secondary School – which is limited in many areas to the exchange of certain labels, where a lot of new things that you announce are not actually happening – is the only thing that comes to the fore, then you can already see that there is little to it. If I have read it correctly, I think you need €29 million for the New Middle School. At least I took that from the newspaper reports. Now let us look at the proportion of the discussion as a whole. This is a “learning” – as would be said in Vienna – against what we are discussing here in budgetary terms. But we are not only talking about those schools where there may be the New Secondary School, but also about all the other schools, students, especially teachers who would deserve improved working conditions. But today you have not said a word about this in the next few years. Your wishes in honor – we want to discuss concrete measures with you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Amon has made a very interesting statement, which I can only assess for the first time without knowing the budget. - Greetings to Mr Pröll! I think it is simply a point of view that yesterday – who has seen the “Report” broadcast – he must have got the impression that this can no longer be serious – as Minister of Finance on Journalism issues said every time: 19. ==References== ==References== April; until then no information! – So the budget is the big fog. Apparently this is about staging. But we would like to talk about the situation. Mr Amon said: If we were to actually introduce two hours more teaching commitment, that would mean that 10,000 jobs are at risk. – That’s how I would look at it after a rather simple bill. We have 120,000 teachers each with about 20 hours of teaching commitment. If everyone works 10 percent more, that means that 10 percent of hours cannot be used anywhere. I'd like to know if that's true. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, say there's a job guarantee. Yeah, how is that supposed to fit in? How does the job guarantee look? – If two hours more is taught, but nothing changes in the system, where will the approximately 10,000 to 12,000 teachers for whom we would like them to be not the next unemployed, but that if you do something, you talk about improving quality in the school system? Mrs Bundesminister, you have remained entirely guilty of the answer. They do not answer that. You can go to television twice and say in the discussion in the broadcast “In the Center” you give a guarantee. - Yeah, where is she? You alone cannot give this guarantee! You know that you also need the budgetary and financial foundations – but they do not exist. This is foaming that you operate, Mrs. Minister! I can't spare you this accusation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When we look back, I have to say, Some similarities to your predecessor in argumentation I cannot agree with you on this two-hour measure. Minister Gehrer said at the time: I have a great measure! We cut the number of school hours in Austria by two hours – interestingly at that time also two hours, two hours of the week – because the students in Austria are extremely burdened, the most burdened pupils in all of Europe; we need a discharge from the students! What happened? – There are items, as has been rightly mentioned today, that are sometimes only taught more than one hour a week, which no longer results in a reasonable teaching being carried out, with parents ultimately paying for them, partly for much remedial instruction, in which what could not be taught at school has to be recovered. Now we hear from you, Mrs Minister, two hours more in service from the teachers are the contribution to be made here in an economically difficult situation. We still hear this in a blatant form, as it is not really true: While it is true in part in the compulsory school sector that the number of school students has been reduced – first, second class – the key problem now seems to be that the Minister of Finance, who should sit here, no longer has money to continue this system. In the next two years, the next two steps will be taken, and that is why this request, which lies here. But there are a whole bunch of schools where nothing has been changed at all. Where is the class student reduction in the AHS upper level? Where is she at the Trade Academy? Where is she in the HTL? Where was the money for it – even if it had not been lowered – at least in order to enable a better education? You already have to break this on the tongue: They call on the HTL teachers to use the HAK teachers to teach two hours more, but put these 36 students in class and say: Now make a lesson where you have less preparation effort anyway, because you can obviously teach easier! – The fact that these teachers must be “rolled” is, I believe, on hand. Mrs. Minister, as you have done, is simply a disaster. Now we can talk about the need for change in many areas. [[Abg. Ing. Kuzdas: We could have asked the Greens!]] – It would not have been a mistake to ask the Greens. At least there might not have been such a simple way of doing so in communication. On the point that teachers should be present at school longer – if you go 40 hours a week – we can discuss, we should discuss, and there would be, I believe, also a relatively large and broad consensus. The question is: What are they supposed to do there? Should they sit in Chambers where they can't prepare reasonable lessons, because a hundred people on, I don't know how many, certainly not hundreds of square meters sit? And because Finland is always called: What are the teachers doing there in the afternoon? They have a system where learning care takes place in the afternoon; where private follow-up does not belong to the system because it takes place at school. You can talk about this system, with a restructuring also of the teacher's working time, but then you need an overall package. But you don't do this. It does not help to raise us beautiful shawl sound, which could be in 20 years, but it should be said: Okay, big cut, new funding, also new change, change in teacher service law – let's do it once! When you go here and say, as yesterday in the “Report”: I'm making a big offer, we're now making more lessons for two years, and in the end you're getting a new service right!, I mean, then that's actually absurd in the performance! Where is the benefit that the other side has in this proposal? – It is simple and simply not! – Yes, Mrs Rudas, stand representative. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rudas.]] Maybe you've been listening? I just described the need to change the law of the service. But what do you do after you have cried out for years, we're there for the teachers? – You have made a promise after the other did not break down the high-level schooling numbers – the money is not there. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Where is the common school of the 6- to 14-year-olds you promised? [[New call of the abg. May. Rudas.]] Where is she? Where is there a single district in Austria where there is a common school? – You can say goodbye to education policy! What Mrs Minister has done is to lower the credibility of SPÖ. You can be very grateful for that. By the way: Burgstaller's not ours, she hasn't presented it anyway. There would have been a chance to redesign education policy now. You have taken a special class confrontation course – from which you did not get out so badly in the public. Yeah, sure, when you look at it: The FPÖ is wonderfully behind it, the boulevard is also wonderfully behind it. Teachers are supposed to teach 40 hours, probably super-educated, every day to teach eight hours without preparation – this is the picture that seems to have a lot in the population. But you have to resist it and say that we want a qualitative improvement! What you have done is to respond precisely to this public opinion, to order another survey instead of improving the quality of education. But this will not be saved for you in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19564	It has now come up again to Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19585	I would particularly like to comment on two points. First topic: What measures are being taken? – I would like to remind you that there are very many who, I would like to stress, have developed, discussed and finally decided here in Parliament together in the Committee on Education. Many others are included in the government programme. Secondly, it is my concern, Mr Amon, to explain the budget, budget decisions, the budget structure a little. I think this openness is central here. First point: There is a complete package of measures, some of which we have worked together, which we have partly undertaken new ones for this legislative period. If you want, I will read to you all the projects that ultimately have a bigger goal that I also wanted to outline, because it was addressed in your urgent request. What are the projects? – Smaller classes, more small groups. We must continue this project consistently. We must implement it at all levels, as we have done. Small groups, 9th level, that was also a great common concern for us. Keywords: Splitting numbers in German, living foreign language, also in the main subject – a central measure; we also argued together at that time to reduce the drop-out ratios. Of course, we have to pay particular attention to vocational schools and vocational education schools, which is my declared goal for this legislative period, and to set specific funding measures here too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] More and better day care. – A very central concern, with particular reference to quality. I would like to equip the 1 000 locations with the best quality, but that means that more teachers must be available to do this. This also applies to all the other measures I have described so far. There is a need for more teachers and teachers everywhere, or more work done by teachers and teachers at the pupils. Better facilities of schools: 600 million € 2009, 2010, 1.7 billion € in a ten-year period. – Of course, day care is also a topic, the jobs of teachers are a topic. We reach federal schools with federal funds, and of course we also need to motivate the countries to improve the infrastructure accordingly in the field of compulsory schooling. We want to introduce middle management in the larger schools. – I think this is very central in order to really free the teachers of administrative activities. We want to expand the bilingual schools. – A key measure. We want to continue teaching with Matura. – There are already 3 000 in this programme. We have implemented the implementation of the education standards and have decided by law. A corresponding regulation was adopted in January. The extension of the programmes for the prevention of violence is very important. Better language support. – I consider it absolutely urgent that we also allow further funding for students in the second language German. That too will be more. [[Abg. Ollinger: You already told us that, but how's that going?]] We need an increase in vocational orientation, a repetition of qualifications, a new training programme that we have already started. This is, as has been said, the package of measures, which is ultimately to be financed – and so we are on the core issue. [[Abg. Oil: Where?]] You have specified budget figures in your urgent request. You know the structure of my budget: 90 percent of staff expenditure – even if part of it is presented as physical expenditure – is the state teachers, but de facto it is 90 percent staff expenditure –, 5 percent for BIG rents; also fixed expenditure, there are contracts, there is indexation. If you look at this structure, then you will notice that two thirds of the budget increase you quote in your application is going into salary increases and the indexing of rents, and then you will see that this budget is too short to implement all that we have done. [[Abg. Brosz: That's why we made the request!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That was the reason for our request!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: We are for this!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Only the Amon did not understand that this is about the biennial jumps!]] Now there are three variants to solve this problem. Variant one: Increase the budget. I did not succeed in implementing your request in two budgetary negotiations. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's why we're here!]] Variant two – and that is important to me because it always comes back; it is presented here as if I had to save something: the opposite is the case! –: In order to carry out all the programmes, teachers need to have additional benefits. Teachers need to be taught at school, in day care, in team teaching, in small groups. It takes teachers – and therefore on Sunday my statement: Employment guarantee for all those who are in the system, because we need it to improve education! That's the starting point. That means that it is not a question of saving, of reducing, but the opposite is the case! We need to try to show more performance for the children in the school. There are, ladies and gentlemen, of course also a variant three, and this variant three means: We're going back to the reforms we've started. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: We have the guarantee of two years! They're set up by law!]] Of course, I do, because if I have only certain resources available – I can't spend more than I have – then I have to go back to projects and reforms. I think it was Mr Stadler, who somehow accused me today, that I threaten to withdraw. - I'm not threatening at all! I am only saying what I am available for, that is, a continuation, a committed continuation of the reform course. That is why my approval of the budget was linked to structural reform measures, because otherwise this is not possible. I do not want to go back to reform, but I would like to stand for offensive education policy, and I would like, if I may now take this bow, to go into the future and not into the past. - So much for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19723	Now comes Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19744	Ladies and gentlemen! I have – probably unlike others – felt it very beneficial that Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Forged in the first part of its presentation at the beginning has placed very basic images in the room, positive pictures where the school is to develop in our country. I believe that this is a good example of how we can lead political debates more often: we are increasingly talking about goals and then we can take concrete measures to determine whether they are really capable of achieving these objectives or working on the steps to achieve these concrete objectives. Many of these planned steps and objectives have been mentioned by the Federal Minister in the second part of her remarks and, as I believe, also very impressively illustrate what is at stake in this current debate, what is at stake and what it is really worth – Mrs Federal Minister, I would like to strengthen your back – to put ourselves in the stuff and fight for it. For this we also support and thank you for doing so with such a consequence and such emphasis. Your positive image, of course, is appealing to add more pictures, for example, one that has come to my mind in addition to what has already been done in part, namely: the school without a school bag, the school without assistance, a school in which the children are sufficiently encouraged, so that they do not have to be compensated for by the support of the parents or by paid funding, which does not happen in the school. This is, of course, about the model of the whole day school – also addressed in the Greens’ request – not about a model on which the children have a school in the morning and are only supervised in the afternoon, but about a model that provides a nested daily course of instruction, promotion and leisure. I have not heard any such diffamation of the whole day school as before by Mr Rosary of the Freedom Party. They somehow spoke of a “DDR-compulsory model”. [[Abg. Neubauer: As the Greens suggested!]] – I believe that the Greens do not see this much differently than I do in this case. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Oja, that's what's in the application! Compulsory all day school! We don't want that!]] I think that's what they feel like diffamation. This is a level, I must tell you about what I thought we should actually have gotten rid of in the school policy debate. You, Mrs Haubner, must be in error. While they have spoken out for school courses all day long, they are intended to be offered throughout the world. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Obligation!]] – Obligation, indeed, you have said across the board, and I think that must be a mistake, because “wide-ranging” means you should be able to choose across the federal territory, but the option should be available accordingly. Getting there – that was clearly the second part of the statements made by the Federal Minister – is a tough way. Prosperous tough way. Colleague Amon – he's not in the hall anymore – has made it a bit easy today. On the one hand, the reforms should continue – this is consensus, which he has not contradicted – and on the other hand, there should be no more budget, no structural reforms. I'd be interested in your alternatives. However, I am very optimistic after the debate this morning, Mr Amon, because there is broad consensus here in the House that the reforms should continue, even if we do not agree in every detail on this path, the reform path must continue. They have said: no more budget, no more structural reforms, Mr Amon – but I am optimistic, as we agree that the path should be continued, that we will find common ways there after appropriate efforts.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19832	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19853	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! This debate now in the afternoon is a deepening of those in the morning. [[Abg. Oils: Ui!]] The Federal Government has agreed together on a demanding education programme. I think this coalition agreement can be seen. It is also reflected in the debate today that the reforms of the past were important, but not the base alone for the future, but that a further house of the reforms is to be built on them, because in the end, education is constantly to be developed. [[Abg. Oils: What reforms? What reforms of the past?]] – I call you a few reforms if you wish to have them repeated; School is a repetition. Example: Early promotion. We are glad that the last thing the state of Vienna finally understood is that the Free Kindergarten is an important form of early promotion. The model 1 + 1 in Vienna, which is adopted and welcomed today, means that there are own preschool classes for those children who are not yet sufficiently prepared for the first class. – This is also a support measure, which is important, because I cannot ignore the issue of migration/integration in a successful education policy, I have to take it in. We need both an integration policy and an education policy that tries to act supportively. Language promotion, individual support, internationalisation. Our entire coalition agreement is based on two common pillars: on the one hand on performance orientation and on the other on the topic of individual promotion, individual curiosity promotion, gift promotion, performance promotion. We have agreed precisely on these two values in a global, international world within the framework of this demanding coalition agreement. We all have not yet been able to imagine how dramatic economic development will be in the world. All departments have to deal with this dramatic situation, and that is to say, not to put their heads in the sand, but to consider forward-looking how to maintain the strategy. Nevertheless, we must finally take note of the budget data, which simply shows that there will be less revenue. In the centre, regardless of the economic situation, the increase in equal opportunities and the increase in permeability must continue to stand, but we should also make the successes on the way there visible, because one can only motivate teachers and pupils to become even better if one learns to appreciate what has been achieved. “Learning” means celebrating intermediate success, but setting next demanding goals. It is therefore also important to me that we look where we have achieved successes over the last ten years. Are we, Mr Amon, very impressively confirmed that our young people are among the top young people when it comes to international apprenticeship competitions when it comes to the reliability of skilled workers training, when it comes to permeability in the sense of no conclusion, when we are pioneers in vocational training and general education and bridge building between these two areas, if we are here in Parliament to receive international delegations who wish for all the vocational training systems we have! [[Abg. Brosz: What about the 36 students?]] That is why, Mrs Federal Minister, we are continuing this path, but we are continuing it in expanding the strengths of our school system and not alone on the backs of teachers! I'm glad to have heard from you this afternoon that you sit back at the table and negotiate. Nothing else we wanted today. It's not about withdrawing, it's not about knocking doors, it's about thinking about how to deal with the situation. This includes – you know that very well, and I am glad that you are now taking up this again – very concrete figures, data, facts. What these negotiations need is to rely on concrete figures, data, facts. We are not going to create this here in plenary, but this is to be organized in a small group, which sets out the priorities and the period during which they are realized. We do not want to go away from the objectives, but we must set priorities in which order we implement something. It will not be like Christmas, that you say you want everything – and you should finance it alone the teachers. We can only go this way with each other by strategic action. Teachers themselves have made many suggestions in the last few days; I have quoted one of hundreds today. I don't like to say it's the one or the one, there are many ways to get there, but: If we strengthen the strengths of our education system, we encourage our young people to be at the forefront of the world and all our education system in terms of vocational training and education in their countries worldwide, because they insist that the academic rate alone is not yet the guarantee of the success of an economy, there is a need for an overall system, it needs vocational training, general education, permeability, no conclusion without a connection, it needs “teaching with Matura”! – Yes, Mr Walser, your school also has a connection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] This to all teachers sitting in here: It's not about selection, it's about conveying. Please contact your students: Every degree has a connection in Austria, because we need lifelong learning and non-school learning! This is my conviction, according to the guarantee for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19934	Mr Graf, third President, has now come to speak. I would like to have a speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e19956	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister, a certain disappointment is already widespread when we have to know – no matter where you speak: whether this is here in the House, whether it is in the “Report”, whether it is in an interview that is being transmitted, or in discussions with teachers or students – wherever we find you that like a Tibetan prayer mill you always have the same standings down, and it is not the decisive thing that we expect to be presented at last, namely, those figures, facts and facts which are obviously on the table, but which only few know. – That is a bit disappointing. [[Abg. Ow! Ask the pomp! This is the Minister of Finance!]] - Ask the Indian, ask the Pröll! Yes, I know, my colleague. If one goes as a party to a government, places the Federal Chancellor and also occupies substantial resorts, it is too little to talk to the coalition partner at the end of the day if one does not prevail. - That's too little for me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] And if the policy of this government, which has written on its flags to advance education policy, as well as research and science, and to place a clear sign here, does not include implementation, then that is simply too little. Then you talk about the general economic situation and the financial situation of this Republic, but each department says it gets more money. So far, I have heard from every Federal Minister that he has a better budget statement than in the previous year. However, I wonder where the priority is when everyone, both the Minister for Defence and Sports and the Minister for Science and Research, the Minister for Infrastructure and also the Minister for the Interior, has said that they have a better budget than before. Obviously, the funds have been allocated in a way, and priorities have not been set again – at least not in education policy, as is apparent. We don't know exactly yet, but the fear is there. It is simply too little, as a Tibetan prayer mill repeatedly prays down the same beautiful statements and keywords that are already in the government agreement. Yeah, who doesn't want a better school? Who doesn't want a better education? – You always tell us that! And then you say about it – and that's the only newsworthy thing: I want to design, my school looks like that, my goals look something like that and more. Mrs Bundesminister, with leave and with all appreciation, but: At the end of the day, education policy is not just your business, it is a matter of society, of the general public here in the House, and it is simply not enough if you are always doing the same thing in this regard. If you are looking for a runaway and say that education policy is almost budget decision-making policy, that is, what is now possible for two years, but your goals are far ahead, and if we know that a better school is your goal, then we sign this: A better school, that's no problem at all, just the How do you not say to it, and even the when you don't say it, and also not where you're willing to take more money into your hands. I'm wondering now: Should the primary school be improved by the fact that each school teacher spends two hours more teaching time in the school? How's he supposed to do that? I always thought of a folk school class – a folk school teacher. [[Abg. Owl: Afternoon care, for example!]] – Exactly, you need it for afternoon care! They need it for other things, but in reality they don't need it for schooling. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, take this out singularly. – That’s the simplest thing you can do in such a situation if you don’t enforce yourself. You take out a singular measure, although you know very well – and I know it, and we know that you know it – that this is not enough, and then you promise a better service right. Now we are all learned Austrians and burned children. Already in the field of tertiary education, a transitional service right was created and was intended for two to a maximum of three years, which should then be replaced by a new service law negotiated at the social partners' level. – That was 2002. Now we have 2009, and there is still no new service right. The transitional service right, which was intended for two to three years, has been in force for seven years and will probably be in force for an eighth and a ninth year when it continues, and much more. That is to say, it is legitimate to trust the commitments – and politics, the rulers in general – no longer if a singular measure is preferred and then promised that another necessary one will follow. They are now pretending that the project of a new service law was only initiated by the current budget debate, that there is no preliminary work at all and that this new service law must then be negotiated and developed in parallel in the next two years. It would have been a lot of failure if you had started it two years ago. – Now you have been in office for two and a half, three years, and then you have had the same standings, the same visions, the same goals. – I suppose your goals have not changed over the last two years. Then you should have done some preparatory work. We ask questions anyway and always ask where the preparatory work is and what has already been done. In reality, nothing changes the school's classification. The area in which one has to take the first step is the area of missing school administration, which is the school administration, which is extruded by federalism, where billions of savings are available, from funds currently spent on the non-necessary administration and the spheres of influence of many country princes. This money needs to be loosened, and I miss the promises when what is coming and when we're going to do it at all. Mrs. Minister, you are picking out a measure – and in the end, an entire profession is publicly pulled through the cocoa by indiscretion. The fact that the profession is going to be in the middle of it is normal. Mr. Walser, if a representation of interest – whether you like it or not – represents an opinion and you overly believe in it, with expressions such as “concrete heads”, “concrete skull”, “concrete fraction” and similar more censorships, then you will not make any contribution at all to bring anything into swing. – It is, believe me! That's not how you're doing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: 30 years! Out of the union!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] We want a comprehensive reform. – Then let us go to her, and not as the colleague Cortolezis-Schlager says, by working on this in a small circle! Let's get it wide! Let's make it big! Let's make it transparent! Let's make it public, and let's get something going in the next six to ten years! [[Abg. Dr. Walser: And you are the only party against the common middle school! Even the ÖVP!]] Difficult times, exceptional times, even exceptional economic times require extraordinary and exceptionally fast action. There's a lot of talking going on – then we'll do it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We don't need many years to know where the rabbit is. This is open to everyone, but everyone has a different approach. In the end, ideological arguments are argued with pretexts. In the end, one does not agree in this coalition whether to come to an overall school or not. You'd like her. That's your goal. That's what you call your vision. However, you, Mrs. Federal Minister, find a government partner who is not yet so far - and he will not provide you with the financial possibilities so that you can live up to your ideological dreams. It's just an analysis: There you have the wrong partner, or you should have negotiated it better in the government program. They also know – and I know from my own experience – that: What in the government program, which one closes with the ÖVP, does not expressly stand up to with time rails, money rails and the like, you will never get in a coalition of the ÖVP. This is not the fault of the EIA – I have always said this to my group – that is the fault of the negotiating partner. At that time it was us, then it was the BZÖ, today it is the Social Democrats. - That's so simple. In the end, Mr. Faymann, has bad negotiations with his team. You have to take note of that. But you can actually do many hundreds of things that don't cost any money at all. For example, if you are talking about the prevention of violence at school, you should remember that we have already promoted a year and a half ago that in Austria there is no survey standard on violence in school, teachers, children, students and so on. There's no such thing as that! This must be implemented so that you can even study in the medium term where you have to start. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] You have very, very many opportunities to act, Mrs. Federal Minister, without making a scapegoat or stamping it as a scapegoat, and you can do that without further delay. This could save you more money than now with this drastic measure, which is exclusively at the expense of a professional group.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20107	Mr Windholz. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20128	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The debate shows very different approaches. Well, the Federal Minister has formulated a goal. First of all: At least we share this goal! The question is: How is the way there, how can this objective be achieved?, and this always leads to the question of budgetary resources. Now, after 100 days of the presented cuddly course, I think it is clear to everyone that there is a serious difference in this government. If the applicant is even accused of using budget figures from media, I have to say: I don't wonder! No one should be surprised at this, because what has been negotiated on a budgetary basis is, in a way, the political Omertà, the duty of silence. There's nothing to say. With regard to the position of the Minister, it is clear that this budgetary means can no longer be used in this way. I think it is quite courageous that one also accepts a subject of which one knows that there is a large trade union lobby. I know President Neugebauer from the past as a negotiating partner and I know how difficult this area is. You've shown courage. However, you have to say: As an individual measure, that would probably have to be too little for everyone; a bundle of measures is required. The administration has already been addressed – rightly – because this is actually an administrative jungle, which is reflected in the responsibilities, and it has been said what you do not want to invest in infrastructure too. As a councillor, I know how difficult this is for communities. Who is responsible for folk schools? Where, then, is the country responsible? – In reality, one will wash down on the other, and in this case the children, the students, will remain. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: The churches do not waste themselves, the churches act!]] – The communities act, yes, if they have the budgetary possibilities! Mr Gaßner, I come from a community where every euro has already been turned, and I also know the sayings there: If we do, this is not the budget, let's move this to the next year! I always think of President Neugebauer. If you have negotiations and proposals, he always says: Yes, yes, I see that already, but this is not what we are going to do next year! This is how it goes year after year, and it usually does not change anything. So there are budgetary bottlenecks. [[Abg. New builder: The executive didn't drive badly, I think!]] – The executive didn't drive badly? – I think so, because you only talk to those who are in leadership there. [[Abg. Newborn: We've done a lot!]] When you talk to the E2b officials, you may also get a different view – a different one-of-a-kind view – of things. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] So if President Neugebauer makes the impression that the executive is all class, I have to say: Here you should look at the employee surveys! That's where I'll get you to know one from the Ministry of Finance. There it says: The benefits of reforms are not recognized! That means need for action! – That was a mild description of a section head. In reality, everyone there said: That's not what we're carrying! – Who makes these reforms? These have, of course, always happened in recent years under ÖVP participation. These are usually “scripers” from the Ministries, totally non-practicable, totally in addition to them, and the identification with the employer is usually no longer given at all. This is the biggest public service problem. The debate we are now holding is already going in this direction. Service law new – what believe You, how many times I've heard that? The Minister has rightly extended this today. She said: Service law new and remuneration new! – That must go step by step. We say quite clearly to you, Mrs Federal Minister: We will support this if it is reasonable if it is a bundle of measures, so that the whole thing goes on a little positive! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The debate you are now having with your coalition partner and with the powerful trade union lobby is a very difficult one. In any case, you have our support for reasonable reforms, for fulfilling what you have called the target. To the two hours shift into the classroom: I believe that this is also a solid contribution within the framework of a package of measures, which, in my view, is really reasonable. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: And the customs officials do the same thing: solidarity contribution?]] – We will have to talk about customs officials elsewhere. I can then tell you what they have done, especially under this federal government. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Yes, and now, solidarity contribution?]] I would also like to address the issue of burnout, which is widely used by teachers. This is, in fact, the outflow of non-escape, of what has happened in reforms, which are entirely beyond the goal. I have already told you this in committee. The Federal Minister herself said that she was not an expert, but she was aware of the problem. I can only tell you: Burnout is an expression of what's going on! It would be appropriate to discuss an expert group on this subject, including in order to get solutions. The proposals for solutions will all go towards a new, modern right of service and remuneration, which is fair and fair and therefore differs considerably from what this Federal Government has caused these 100 days and the two years before.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20239	Now comes Mrs Mag. Musiol speaking with a desired speaking time of 5 minutes. I would draw attention to the fact that your group's total residence time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20260	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the galleries! Before I come to the subject, I would like to make some sort of actual correction. Mr Graf is now no longer present, but if he accuses my colleague Walser of using, as it were, the term “concrete policy” or the word that begins with “beton” and ends with “heads”, I must say to him: No, it wasn't superinstructive! Mr Walser described only one state in which the ÖVP stand-alone policy and in which Austrian education policy is located. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we talk about the problems and the conditions in the field of education, of course this applies not only to school matters, but of course also to the education of the zero to six-year-olds, i.e. to kindergartens, or also to the extra-school area of popular students and beyond the afternoon services. There is also an blatant shortage of places and the field of educators, and there is also an urgent need for action. If this government has announced the mandatory free kindergarten year from autumn 2009 – both in its programme and in various interviews – and then with the argument that it has not yet been sufficiently examined to introduce this mandatory kindergarten year, I must keep in mind that it is a special class announcement policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] To promise families something that you will not keep, and to hide behind legal possibilities or inconsistencies, is highly negligent and actually not worthy of yours. Said, not done! Already after the first rounds of negotiations, it has become clear that the obligation does not come. Why did that become clear? – Because the government has also become clear that what we Greens have noted from the beginning, namely that there is a blasphemy for this, is actually reality. In the school year 2006/2007 and in the school year 2007/2008, only 3 819 seats were created for the three to five years. This corresponds to an increase of exactly 1 percent. If you continue to expand at this rate, the three to five years in 2023/2024 will now have 100 percent kindergartens available. I do not expect you to understand an appropriate and socially just policy. While you have taken over 70 million for 2009 and 2010, we have already noted this morning about the discussion on the family package in the tax reform that this is too little that you can promise the deductibility of child care costs, but if you cannot provide the childcare places here, this does not help the families at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Not only we, but also well-known experts, such as Markus Marterbauer, have pointed out that it would have been important not only to achieve the goal of offering 100 percent of the compulsory kindergarten year here, but also to have an invigorating effect on the economy, because it would have been possible to create five times the level of employment than what you have done now. You mentioned the Free Kindergarten in Vienna this morning. There is also a lot to be said about this. Of course, it is gratifying that this means that mayor Häupl and the SPÖ city government meet a long-standing demand from the Greens, but that is not sufficiently prepared either. For example, there is a lack of kindergarten education. We have known for years that there is an urgent need for reflection. Why is this profession not attractive? – Mr Glavischnig has already done this today: Because this is a profession, mainly carried out by women, where income is blatantly low! Therefore, we also demand a rapid increase, an increase of 40 percent, at least to the level of AHS teachers. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] There is no clarification in Vienna, nor in the other federal states, like the private, the non-profit-making kindergartens there should be dealt with. There is a completely intrusive funding system, and we get numerous e-mails – you probably too – in which exactly these institutions express their concerns and receive zero information from the government, how this should continue. There is a lack of federal uniform standards: started with the training of kindergarten teachers, on quality assurances, group sizes and much more, but also in relation to the opening hours. We all know that good opening hours and sufficient opening hours are an important foundation for the compatibility of work and family. You preach all the time that you want to introduce this, but your actions show different. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: You have no idea!]] There is an urgent need for action, and even if the government is now leaning back: We won't do that! We will make a request for a uniform federal framework law covering precisely these issues, and we have also made an application in the early days, which includes a right to a free kindergarten for all children from the first year of life.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20345	Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20366	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear listeners in the galleries! I don't think we're so far apart. We agree, I believe, that the education system, as it is today, is not sufficient for our students. I don't need PISA results or PISA comparisons, because you're right, I just have to go to school and ask our students, but they're unfortunately not happening in the entire discussion at all. You only need to talk to the students, and they will confirm to you: The current education system is not good! If it were so good, then they would be happy students who are happy to go to school early and acquire knowledge. [[Abg. Amon: We already have students who are happy, I can tell you that too!]] Unfortunately, we still have a system in which we do not promote the strengths, but which would actually be necessary. That means we agree: The education system, as it is, needs reforms. And now we just have to agree that we do not always understand education policy as a pure remuneration policy. Since, Mr Brosz, I do not at all understand the differentiation between you and Mr Neugebauer, for you both came exclusively from pay policy ideas. – Mr Neugebauer has not spoken at all here, so I can only read this from the newspapers. – You have only addressed remuneration policy – no word of education policy came from you! [[Abg. Brosz: No word about education policy?- Oh, my God!]] Shame – probably because of personal distress, but then you don’t pretend to speak for the teachers! I know enough teachers who are fully behind Claudia Schmied's reforms and who are willing to do so, and are willing to contribute actively to improvements in the education system. [[Abg. Rädler: Who are the two teachers?]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: “Solidar benefits” now means that! Unpaid overtimes are called “Solidar Benefits ”!]] Ladies and gentlemen! When we look at the reforms in detail, we see: The decision is actually easy! Then: Either we say: We're giving up the smaller classes! - No one wants that. Okay. Or we say: We're not going to teach small groups. - That's not what anyone wants. Or we say: We give up teaching with Matura! - That's not what anyone wants. Or we say: We do not want to extend the New Secondary School. - No one wants that at all. That's not what any of you want. In all parties, except in the FPÖ, there are also members of state governments, and there is no federal state that says: We're not going to the New Secondary School! On the contrary! The federal states are demanding the extension of the new secondary schools because they see how successful this model is. That is to say, Claudia Schmied's reform is deserved. Not for nothing is she one of the most popular ministers. The teachers, the teachers, the pupils and especially the parents are behind her. Only: What she really needs is that we here in the House are behind her and her reform measures. And that is precisely to understand education policy as an educational policy, and to make remuneration policy where it belongs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20461	The following honourable Member, Mr Franz, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20482	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is a pity that this educational discussion has been initiated by the demand for two additional, unpaid lessons, and it is unprecedented, this educational discussion, which is now becoming a general teacher's chatter by the public! It is also frightening how here a professional group is verbally drowned. And the BZÖ is more involved here, because it has always arrived well with the population when one has annoyed teachers. The consequences: A dramatic motivation, a tremendous frustration of teachers. I was in a presentation of Matura projects at a trade academy last week, and there were projects presented in a quality that could only be marveled at. There were cooperations with local companies, there were cooperations with communities, there was also a local service project, which was really very interesting. This presentation was inspired by a proven partnership between students, parents, teachers and business, and this is exactly how one imagines a modern, a lively school. Anyone who understands something from school knows that such projects cannot be created at all in the normal hourly obligation, in the specified lessons. There is a need for a particularly high level of involvement of teachers, and of course an additional effort, an additional effort of the people involved. You can imagine what came when I spoke with the teachers afterwards: They have lamented me, expressed their displeasure – and that is right! – about this misguided discussion, in which it is signaled: Teachers are lazy, they work too little, they defend themselves against any change! I say: That's not true! The teacher's work in the class is limited not only to the hours he is in the class, but also to the teacher's working time. Preparations include parent talks, team meetings, student advice, work corrections, projects, learning support and the like. In addition, a large number of teachers are very willing for balanced changes, but if intervention in service law is already to take place, the long-term overdue right of employment and remuneration must also be changed at the same time. It must be modernised: with a flatter content curve, with higher entry salaries and with a performance-related component. Then perhaps more men would again be willing to take up this profession, because the lack of male teachers seems pedagogical to me. In view of the forthcoming wave of retirement, there is quite a chance that this can also be implemented that it can be financed. We also need better working conditions in schools so that teachers can also make their preparations in school if you already want them to be there for 40 hours. There must be more than half a square meter available for a teacher in the conference room, and a small subject is too little. Some teachers don't even have their own chair. The statement in the Government Convention, teachers and teachers are the key to educational success, is undisputed. So let us strengthen our educators! Only motivated teachers are also able to motivate pupils. Let us return to an educational debate that has more quality in school and is not talking about savings. In this discussion, too, the classical Council: First think, then talk to each other and finally act!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20547	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20568	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Franz, let us just speak numbers! [[Call the ÖVP: They're talking to you!]] - No, that's not the case, I'm going to explain that to you. In the primary field, the teacher spends on average – Mrs. Haubner has mentioned it before – according to OECD study – not BZÖ study, OECD study! – 43 percent in the school class with his students. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: I think you're a teacher – a high teacher!]] - No, I'm not the teacher. – So 57 percent he's after Adam Riese – you can calculate; without a pocket calculator, when it goes – not with the students. In secondary education, he is only 33.7% of children, in secondary education II 32.7% of children. That's in the upper level, there's the least of the students' presence at all. Now you want to explain to all of us that the teacher is two thirds of the time – two thirds of the time! – supposedly for post-care, preparation, follow-up, correction of schoolwork – in the case of increasingly lower numbers of students, smaller classes – needs! He's supposed to have such an effort that he needs two thirds of the time to do that! The only one who was honest in the whole debate was Mr Amon, who, in his Freud’s miscarriage, always said that it was unthinkable in another area – I quote Amon – that an employer can extend working time on one side. – End of the quote. It's been honest. He has admitted that the teachers do not, in fact, regard what they are preparing for post-preparation – that is, these two famous two-thirds that I have mentioned – and so on, even as working time, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The colleague Walser also had in his speech Freud’s misdemeanors, as well as others who all know – you, colleague Walser, know from his own experience – that: The teachers actually have a half-day job! If you have two or three years of routine in the teaching profession, you do not need two thirds of the time to prepare and prepare for and correct the house exercises, ladies and gentlemen. That's just ridiculous! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'll tell you: With what we have to do at home, what we have to help with the homework – at this number of children; I am already; I am doing it myself with my wife – I have more to do than the Lord Teacher, who is supposed to need two thirds of his time of service for the so-called preparation and follow-up. [[Rejoicing]] That's simple and just not true! True is what Mr Amon said: This is an extension of working time. But now the point is: They're not paid for 20 hours. [[Abg. Amon: It also needs more preparation time...!]] No, Mr Amon, teachers will not be paid for 20 hours, but they will – and now I will tell you something new! – paid for 40 hours. Incredible! 40 hours a teacher!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's a heavy overload, he'll get a break! I am already worried about this labour nuisance on the part of teachers, ladies and gentlemen. Explain this to workers and traders! And you know this very well in your ranks, Mr President. I know that there is also a heated debate in your own field, in the Economic and Agricultural Confederation, in the Farmers' Association, where they say: Are you still comforting about putting such a protected market as the teacher market under the glass crash? – Not even Mr President Neugebauer goes out to defend the teachers! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This remains left to an Amon – or to the colleague Graf. This has also been remarkable: An ÖVP representative will not come out if Mr Walser says: ÖVP union heads! No, the Martin Graf is going out of here! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's unheard of!]] No, you went out and defended her. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Yes, eh!]] Not even the ÖVP delegates get out of here! In fact, they only make more contributions because they know that people outside are not so stupid and know exactly when they see the same teacher on the tennis court all the time, when the same insurance representative always comes, who only exercises the teaching profession in the secondary job if the offers for the follow-up lessons of teachers who have the teaching profession only more than a secondary job! 140 to 150 million a year people in this country have to spend to find out what the teacher no longer teaches the children in school, ladies and gentlemen! These are the things you would have to do if you were really interested in improving the situation! Mrs. Federal Minister, I'm telling you all this too, because – I have a note from the AHS/BSA federal government here; yes, you know the people already – it's incredible how to pick up on the fact that, as a teacher, you have the salary level of a "hofer" register. After all! Hofer-Kassier – pui! This is no longer worthy of a workers' party to be compared to a “hofer” cassier. – This is the naked dark of the stand, and this is the naked contempt of those women, ladies and gentlemen, who depend on a “hofer” content as a cashier – and then, out of this mean “hofer”-case content, they have to pay the additional hours because the ladies and gentlemen in school are no longer able to teach the teaching material to the children, without needing this supplementary education, ladies and gentlemen. [[OBJECTIVES]] That's it! Call that from me Teacher-Schelte; I don't care! – I am on the side of mothers and fathers in this country, who suffer from the fact that there is less and less work in the school business, but there are more and more privileges! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am on the side of those who have to provide the tax service in this country, from which other secured jobs have and then I am excited that they have to stay in the service for two hours longer! Mr Amon, I am now telling you as a conlusio: It is the right of every employer in this country to determine – one-sidedly – where the employee has to fulfil his service obligation. Yes, of course! [[In the direction of the Abg. Dr. Stummful:]] Go, Günter, teach him once, who doesn't know how a company works! If the installer says: You drive to Mrs. Schmauswaberl and repair the line there, and that costs you five hours!, I can't say either: No, no, I'll go to my union now! I don't like that, I don't want to stay with Mrs Schmauswaberl anymore, I want to go home to my wife! Ladies and gentlemen, this is teacher thinking. This has been very treacherous, Mr Amon. The fact is that this is against the economy. This is against entrepreneurship, this is anti-performance, which is a form of glass-return policy, which is no longer tolerable in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So if you want to improve something, Mrs. Federal Minister, go deep in. Have you looked at the proposal with the 31 points from our group? [[Federal Minister Dr. Schmied nodding.]] With all the appreciation of Mr Windholz, which you have clearly discovered – I think it is really nice that you accept the support of my colleague Windholz so gratefully; it will also come from our group – I must say one thing to you: The support comes from us only if you are willing to address real far-reaching reforms. With reförmchen alone you will not satisfy anyone with us! Make big reforms, you have courage! Do not take into account any protected areas and marginal groups! See the problems as they are – and go into a performance-oriented, quality-oriented school management!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20731	Next speaker: Mr Faul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20752	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear colleague Stadler, today you've been out of your way again as a father of six children, who's easily overwhelmed and who's always looking for all the guilt there is only the teachers and the school. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Perhaps your private life is because your wife divides you to study with the children – your examples of the percentage calculation show that you're in the middle of it – for you, you're anti-carriage, and that's why your attack on the teachers. But away from all polemics! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon the news – I really ask for peace – hastened us from this amok runner. This time there was no one in America where we can say: Far away, Närrish, arms law not all right! It was a compulsory student of a real school in Germany, who, Mrs. Federal Minister, was certainly one of the ones you described, one of the 25 to 30 percent who was not satisfied with the school, who was not supported, who was not cared for, which one did not lead to the end of his education. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it was not the question of money that mattered there, but the question of quality in school. Mr Amon, I really want to say this: I know your mind-drawing mother is Mrs. Gehrer, and you're still going to praise her school system. Even if our schools were on the edge of the abyss and in the last place, you would still praise and persist. [[Abg. Amon: Will you please take that back?- Oh, my God!]] I would like to tell you one thing, Mr Amon: I would also like to disprove your speech today on the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, and I tell you the following: The Minister of Finance – just like you, like all teachers, like all ministers and our Federal Minister – knew the consequences of this budget approach. But to the difference of Chancellor Faymann, who stood behind the Minister, because he wanted to carry it, the Minister of Finance was back with the words: Yes, we don't have, we need self-responsibility! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's dangerous! Let him stand before them, not behind them!]] Your words have sounded the same way today: There's the Minister's fault! - That's not how it is! I think you also have to bring in the consequence of this. Mr Westenthaler – I really want to make it very short – I would just like to say to your verbal comments: For decades you have made the concrete wall for the so-called concrete skull – as you call it! I wouldn't say so. [[Call at BZÖ:For decades?]] Mr Amon, one thing I would like to say to you: Today I received great calls from your camp – from the Industrial Association, from the Chamber of Commerce, from other trade unions, your partner unions, the ÖVP-dominated, but above all from many mayors. Many have said how much they are behind the system of Federal Minister Schmied because they simply know that the modified society, dear colleague Amon, must also offer changed forms of teaching. [[Abg. May. Molterer: They don't know you at all!]] At the all day kindergarten, we never argued, it was clear to us, but on the question of whether teachers should teach all day, on whether teachers should make an integrated teaching, on the question of whether teachers should turn to the students more, there we are suddenly apart and there are deep gaps. Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied, I think you have put it to the point with your request. I believe that, although we are teachers ourselves, we are behind you. They want the best for our students. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What ‘appendix’?]] Mr. Graf... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What request of the Federal Minister?]] The proposal – I am sorry, I meant the proposal of the Federal Minister. Mr Graf, do you know what I find so fatal today, including you? – I have really trusted you with more format. Not the children are your interest, it's the party policy plot in here: Who represents teachers, who does not represent teachers? Let's go, won't we? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can't blame us for this: We don't represent the teachers!]] - That's where I have to say: This is really very, very insolent to the teachers! You have only made the teachers to play ball: the dissatisfied father; the one who does not represent a teacher; those who like to represent the teachers would like to be there for them and otherwise always agree that everything is too little. [[Call BZÖ: Who do you represent now?]] Please, this is not the honesty we have expected here! Mrs Bundesminister, all the best on the way to a high-quality school, to a social school system in which not only the elites go on, but also the poor and the weak in our society, because we need them in the future! All the good for you on the way, with donations to the weak in society that we cannot leave behind, is simply to find the necessary means here! I also want to break a lance for the teachers because I am a director myself. My teachers have said that they want to make a contribution to making the school system more child-friendly in Austria. The only request they have is that, Mrs. Federal Minister, the benefits they want to provide for the children remain in their schools for quality assurance. In this sense: All right on the way!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20889	For the last time, the following words have been spoken: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20911	Ladies and gentlemen! If there is an experience from the educational debates that have been carried out in other countries, such as Scandinavia, it is this: You can reform what you want in the school system, be it curriculums, institutional reforms – if you do not succeed in taking teachers and teachers along, then you can make reforms as many as you want, and you will fail! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You, Mrs Federal Minister – this is our accusation to you – have started a debate that is as important to us as no other, the educational debate, with the fact that you have presented the teachers! [[Abg. May. Rudas: That's what happened anyway! Support her!]] This is pretty much the stupidest thing you can do in this situation of the Austrian education system. This is the accusation to you, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Everything can and must be discussed, including about the situation – of course, everyone knows, not only Mr Stadler, who once again gave his Philippika the best, but in principle has a picture of the teacher in his head, which corresponds exactly to what Stadler says: 19. ==References====External links== This is your picture of the teacher, so you would like him and so he fits into your concept. Just, it just doesn't play anymore, colleague Stadler! Today's teachers are not only educators who have to deal with teaching material, but they are hopefully also there for the everyday problems of children and young people. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] Unfortunately, they are not all, we know that too. But if you, Mrs Bundesminister, want to have a chance to implement a reform concept to which you do not yet have the support of the ÖVP, this is only because you take these committed teachers with you, by supporting these committed teachers and not working against them! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Most complaints...!]] What we have heard from you, Mrs Rudas, is the news peak of the SPÖ: The extension of working time without wage compensation is the solidarity of teachers. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] – That’s absurd, that’s grotesque! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rudas.]] This allows you to seamlessly enter into the front of the Preventing or emphasizing people we have seen from past years of education policy and also social policy on the part of the ÖVP and the FPÖ. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e20999	The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21014	Yes, I wish I could take a step forward in a courageous future for education. You didn't put him, Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21045	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now have four votes to vote. Vote on the Self-employed Amendment No 515/A(E) by Mrs Glavischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament on ‘Education billions’ Part 1: Increased education budget by €525 million for 2009 and 2010 – Budget guarantee for education reforms. If you follow this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Additional investment in the Austrian education system, €475 million in 2009 and 2010 for infrastructure and professional non-pedagogical staff. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenkranz, colleagues, on basic reforms in education instead of a scapegoat policy. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on school reform and economic policy package against the educational impoverishment of Austria. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[17:29:13]] Short debate on the response to the question 526/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21127	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry with the order number 526/AB. The answer to the question is distributed. A reading by the writer is not sufficient. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker is allowed to speak for more than 5 minutes. The first speaker is given a speech time of 10 minutes for reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I'm entitled to the applicant, Mrs Mag. Brunner, please open the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21160	Mr President. Minister! High house! At the end of last year, we put a question to the Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection regarding the implementation of the Water Framework Directive. We have now received an answer and would like to discuss it here today, because the Minister is brief in the implementation of the Water Framework Directive, in particular in the preparation of the national water management plan provided for therein, and because, as a result of this lucidity, because of the massive expansion plans of hydropower and because of the discussions on special arrangements in the EIA Act, there is a great danger that the objectives of the Water Framework Directive will be undermined. The aim of this directive is to achieve a good ecological state of our waters. Unfortunately, however, 60 percent of our floodwaters are at risk that these objectives cannot be achieved. The National Water Management Plan is intended to ensure that we can achieve these objectives and, unfortunately, here you are sparse. ==References====External links== December, you should have put forward a draft; you have now announced it in the answer to the question for April. Unfortunately, the causes of the delay are not clear from the answer. They are talking about extensive planning processes. Yes, I already realize that this is an extensive planning process. But for me this is not the answer to why it was not done in time. The inclusion of the population provided for in this Directive is also insufficient. Active information of the population is required. We read here about publications on the Internet that are planned, and about advice – that is just too little. The participation of nominated representatives is too little. nominee representatives are not the public, nominated representatives represent not the citizens, but those of whom they were nominated. Here an active approach is required to inform citizens actively so that people know what is being planned and what opportunities they actually have to participate in this work. The integration of the population It seems to have been delegated to the countries according to the reply. I think it is also quite right to find regional approaches in this way and thus to have closer access. But you should also take care that this is actually done and that the information will flow back together with you. You apparently didn't do that, and not even because of our request it happened now. We have also asked specifically for measures in the individual countries, and unfortunately we have not received any concrete answers. For me, the question now arises as to how you want to comply with the next deadline due to the current state of play. The next deadline is for this water management plan to be completed on 22. December of this year. If you want to do this through increased efforts: How do you want to ensure that, at a shorter period of time, which will remain for you, the population will really be involved, as provided for in the directive? The National Water Management Plan is an important planning instrument and sets out the ways forward for improving the water flow structures. That's why it's happening now, and I've been talking about it: At 60 percent, there is a risk that these objectives cannot be achieved. It is now about how we can achieve these objectives and how we get there, but not how we can paving the last waters. So: Hydropower, yes, but only on the basis of a concrete plan and only in accordance with the Water Framework Directive! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It must therefore not come to a wild growth by means of process accelerations, which are now in the room, and by favor of hydropower, because that would be the wrong way. This would undermine the Water Framework Directive, which would contradict EU law and ultimately also cause planning uncertainty. I don't think that's really what the E-Economie is doing. I referred to the speeding up of the procedure. Much is lamented about the long-term nature of the procedures and the need for procedural acceleration. In fact, however, the EIA procedures have been accelerated in recent years. The procedures in the first instance last on average 13 months, the procedures in the second instance at the Environmental Senate six months and de facto four months. My appeal, especially to the Members of the Government, is: We should or, better, you should stop doing so always as if an EIA procedure were the prevention instrument for projects. As a rule, an EIA procedure does not prevent a project, but simply prescribes certain measures in terms of ecologisation. I think that for a good and ecological project, an EIA is usually not the problem either. The hydropower is already preferred in the EIA Act. While power plants from 15 megawatts are referred to as EIA-based projects, no lower thresholds are foreseen for particularly sensitive areas, such as Natura 2000 sites, nature reserves. That's why we need a novel of this law. We also expect this novel to bring about an approximation of hydropower and no further preference, namely preference, that the hydropower will be of particular public interest from the outset, thereby removing certain test criteria in the EIA legislation, such as nature conservation. The EIA is intended as a cross-sectoral procedure, which should apply equally to all projects and should not grant individual projects exceptions. If there are exceptions here, if there is a process acceleration, this would lead to a wild growth of hydropower projects. These are necessary, but, as has been said, only on the basis of sufficient planning, in accordance with the Water Framework Directive, in order to establish EU law, and in accordance with what our rivers actually tolerate. [[Abg. Großruck: What do you want to know now? What's the Minister's answer?]] We now expect you to continue or continue to work on this National Water Management Plan as an important basis for the development of further hydropower projects and as a basis for improving the flow of water. We expect you to involve citizens accordingly, as provided for in the directive. We also expect you, when it comes to the EIA law, to find a balanced regulation and not to fall down when it comes to individual exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21210	The additional contributions to the debate shall be subject to a speaking time of 5 minutes each. The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21234	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Not only the World Water Forum, which will take place in Istanbul next week, is a good reason to remember that more than a billion people live without access to clean drinking water, that this problem – for example, through climate change, for example, through the further increase of the population, but also through the waste of this important resource, as well as through the ever-increasing introduction of highly toxic industrial waters – continues to intensify, and that in the coming years, many millions of people will be at risk of life due to water shortage. In Austria, we are lucky to be relatively well equipped with water both quantitatively and qualitatively. We just don't live in the relationship, we live in Austria, and that's why we have to look at the quantity of the raw material, which is being fought elsewhere, nevertheless, very responsibly dealing with the quality of water as the basic food bad and the basis for a healthy life. In the same way, running waters, but also standing waters, are a very important place for regeneration. However, if we have a lot of all of this, it is important to implant the thought of carefully dealing with water into the consciousness of people. Especially when something is present in the abundance, it is often not so easy to find out that you should deal with it sparingly that you should consider which chemical additives you might unwittingly pour into somewhere, although that is not necessary. That is why it is also necessary to create the corresponding water awareness and to have appropriate laws in the case of plants, time and again. A carefree handling of costs means that when it comes to water, it is safe to save in the wrong place. All this and another set of measures will be necessary to achieve an ecological, chemical and quantitatively good state of the waters by 2015. In fact: When the draft National Water Management Plan is published, the Ministry of Life is appropriate. This should have happened by December last year and is now announced for April 2009. There will also be a six-month period within which people will be able to comment and participate before final adoption of the National Water Management Plan in December 2009. Austria is obliged by the procedure and also by the European Water Framework Directive to promote and organise the active participation of all interested parties. I think this is a very important approach. Participation is both a holding debt and a bringing debt. Just because we have a lot of water and many people are not aware that you still have to deal with it sparingly, it is so important to involve as many people as possible. Participation in civil society is always an important tool to win allies for their own goals – in our case clean waters. I don't understand participation, I don't understand participation at all as a burden or as an unfavourable edition, as a fatigue, but really as an opportunity to work together towards a goal of involving people, involving businesses. I understand it as an opportunity to disseminate information, but also as an authority, as a government, as a government, and as a parliament to get information to which we might not have had access otherwise. My understanding of the state also tells me that everyone should always be invited to contribute to the common good. This can be done with a serious participative process, and I very much appreciate it if many people engage in civil society over hours. In this sense, I would also like to understand our Environmental Impact Assessment Act, not at all as a disability instrument, but as an instrument of participation, as an instrument of weighing different interests in the sense of a healthy environment. As a state, we have a lot of opportunities to invite people to participate. It is important to find a meaningful relationship to express invitations, to rule out no one, to inform people, but not to give them information, so that no one can see clearly where the root of the problem is. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] In this sense, I would also like to ask: We have not yet fully implemented the Aarhus Directive in Austria, in the part where it is about people in the participation process also having access to courts. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] We should also take the opportunity to implement this third pillar of the Aarhus Directive into Austrian law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21314	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21335	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! We have a special opportunity today to give us the greens, to have the Federal Minister and his top employees here and to talk about water. This is a good opportunity to say thanks in two ways. First of all, the staff of the House who have worked very hard and very hard to implement the Water Framework Directive in recent years. A second thanks – and I say this with great joy – goes to our Environment Minister. Our Niki Berlakovich has done great things in Brussels! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] I'm going to tell Minister Berlakovich a few more times today. I am always happy because I know that he has succeeded in turning things around in Brussels, in the dynamics of the session, and in our sense in implementing the decision on the freedom of genetic engineering in Austria. That is something special, and for that he is also grateful to all of Austria from the very left to perhaps even to the right spectrum of the Republic. And that's a great story. Mrs Brunner, I am pleased that you too have congratulated him on this. We're finally together. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] Now on the real issue, the Water Framework Directive, which did not catch us on the left foot in Austria, but in a stable attitude, because we have a very good handle with water law in Austria. We have with the old water right- a high culture has been lived by law and with the Water Framework Directive, the old Austrian Water Law Act has been developed into a dynamic law on water law, by which we implement and exceed the requirements of the Water Framework Directive. The Water Framework Directive has changed a little fundamentally. In the past, the drop of water was interesting: his chemistry, whether there is him, where he goes. - That was the old one. The greens liked this very much, because with all possible analytical values, people could be seceded, something else could be feared every second day, “damage of the week” – everything was wonderful. Now we have the new Water Framework Directive, which discovers the dynamics of the habitat, the dynamics of ecology and the dynamics of the man who has to do with the water. That's something completely different, a whole new access. The Greens have long had a problem with this. Our officials in the ministry as well as the officials in the country, as well as all the departments and the economy have worked together in this matter well and in dialogue to further develop the old water law in the implementation of this Water Framework Directive into dynamic water management with high ecological demands in the service of people, in the service of the economy and users. That's what they've been working on, you're good on the road. And now there is another phase of citizens' participation. It has been possible to involve interested people in many workshops, in seminars, at various meetings. Every interested citizen, who really was a subject, has already been able to bring his or her input. From April on, this will get a new quality. Then, via the Internet, via various forums, we re-communicate on various other possibilities of the state of our development. The aim is that everyone in personal contact with the water – whether it is a power plant, an industrial plant, an inductor or perhaps also a sewage plant operator, a municipality or simply one who thinks about the future via his water association or as a affected person next to a floodwater river. The The aim is clear: Our rivers are to be cleaner, our rivers are to be more alive, and water is to be and remain what it is in Austria, that is, delicious and everywhere to drink. We like to continue working on this, working with good officials and a minister who can really do what he proves many times. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21405	Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21427	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Right ahead: What has been achieved in the field of the ban on cultivation also finds our approval, our respect, and we also congratulate the Federal Minister, the officials on this achievement. It is very important to us in this context that we should not forget, however, that we import 600 000 tonnes of genetically modified soya annually. This is fed to animals. However, meat, milk and eggs of these animals are not marked. In this context, I also ask for the support of the Federal Minister. He should ensure that not those farmers who feed non-genotechnic feed have to label their products, but those, Mrs. Colleague, I am about to add, feed the genetically modified organisms. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: This is the Water Framework Directive!]] That would be a very important measure. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that we in Austria have a very, very important treasure – and that is our water. I don't know how you are, I always experience this very clearly when I come back from a country where you can't drink from the water supply. Only then will you learn to appreciate what it means to turn up the tap in Austria and drink the fresh water from the water pipe. This is by no means a matter of course, ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore particularly important to ensure that there is no privatisation, no liberalisation in this area. We are convinced that private entrepreneurs are more efficient in many areas than the state. In the field of the goods of the basics of life – and there is water in the first place – it must not be that private businessmen are handed over this valuable property. Here the public must have a hand on it and ensure that this basis of life is available to all citizens. Without a doubt, there will be distribution struggles in the future, also due to climate change. This is undisputed, though disputed about what the cause is. The climate is changing. Therefore, water will become an ever more valuable asset for us. I am also in favour of ensuring water quality together with our neighbours within the framework of international relations, within the framework of this Water Framework Directive. I remember – the Federal Minister knows this case very well – the pollution of the Raab. At the Raab it was so that a foam formation had to be challenged and that our Hungarian neighbors had little joy with the sudden appearance on the Raab foam. One has even called for a boycott, in order to stop drinking beer from Austria as a protest against this foaming. It was then assumed that some tanberries were responsible for this, and that there would not have been any pollution of the water over a fee in itself, but in total it was so that the Raab was thus out of balance and that this foaming had to be negatively affected. We therefore need to make a quick decision on these common environmental objectives, on joint action. If we have to learn from the environmental control report that 60 percent of floodwaters are at risk of missing the objective of a good condition by 2015, then the task for us is to be particularly vigilant and particularly active in this area. I am also in favour of discussing this water management plan together with the master plan for the expansion of hydropower, which is directly related. We are very much in favour of the careful and responsible expansion of hydropower. I grew up in this area. My father was director of a small e-plant with a small hydropower plant, and it was great to be there every weekend and experience that the fattest fish stayed right there at this hydropower station. That was a well-planned facility. I am convinced that an essential part of the potential we have in Austria can be used environmentally in intelligent planning. In this context, I would like to mention a project that was created in the Wachau, namely a hydroelectric power plant for which no water is stored. There the turbine hangs with a chain at the river's sole, the water flows through and generates electricity for about 30 households. This is also a solution that can be implemented environmentally and naturally: If we want to achieve the goal of energy autonomy for Austria, we need, of course, to make use of all the potential available to us in addition to energy saving measures: Photovoltaic, geothermal, wind power and, of course, hydropower.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21481	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21503	Mr President. High house! The Water Framework Directive sets out the environmental objectives for surface waters and groundwater. If the Greens believe that we should necessarily implement everything that comes from the EU, then it would be right for me to do so in other areas, or, vice versa, that we in the field of nuclear energy ensure that there are as strict standards as water, which is basically right. Water is a good to be protected: We need it to live, we need it for our children, we need it for our future, and for that we now have the basic right approach of the Water Framework Directive on the part of the EU. Despite any delays, the ministry – I say now – has tried to put a national water management plan on its feet, and I myself know how difficult it is at times because I also have a little to do with it professionally. However, I am also concerned with the broad public participation I see as a matter of principle. Of course, it is difficult to bring together the different objectives in the water industry – energy, agriculture, fisheries, nature conservation and also close-up. That's why there's an effort. How important this is has been shown by the example of the Raab, in which massive pollution has occurred, which has even led to a “conflict” – I say now under quotations – with the Hungarian neighbours. The President of the State even decided to lodge a complaint with the EU Commission. This makes it clear that it is important to deal with things and to ensure that the water remains clean and drinkable in all parts of Austria, our white treasure remains. Environmental protection is water protection, and those who protect the water also protect their homes. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have had many discussions with the water industry over the last few days, including representatives of hydroelectric power plants, in particular small hydroelectric power plants, all of which are in the boat. There's a neural point. The implementation of the Water Framework Directives must be carried out very decisively. This is about the themes of the residual water in the rivers and the fish ascent aid. Of course, residual water may also mean energy loss, but residual water is important and necessary. But you have to find the right measure for that. Small hydropower has currently expanded a potential of 5.5 terawatt hours in Austria. Even more energy efficiency-enhancing measures and new buildings would be another two terawatt hours. We must not say – this is a bit so come over from the Greens – that we must not attack the hydropower at all. That would be the wrong access. We still know too well what we are a few weeks ago, we discussed the gas energy crisis. In addition to increasing energy efficiency, we also need to increase our renewable energies to a large extent. And that's just the hydropower. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For this to happen, it will be necessary to bring ecology and economy under one hat, and I believe that also the many power plant operators in Austria prove that this can and will succeed in a very good way. However, it is also a reverse to the treatment of existing intervention by power plant operators through the Water Framework Directive, which must be taken care of. It is therefore important to ensure clear rules of play in this environment, to set clear standards, for example, what these fishing upswing aids should look like. I really have to make an ascent aid for every greened fish, or enough it, we say to get once 90 percent of the species. One is partly incompatible with the other or causes at least a huge additional burden. It is also about ensuring evidence, and it is also about promoting. Here I hear that the Environmental Promotion Act and the Ministry have created incentives that are consistently forward-looking and good and are adopted. The use of small hydropower means CO2 reduction. The cost of avoiding small hydropower in terms of CO2 certificates is around €60 million, which we save ourselves. The potential we still have is around €16 to 27 million a year. Due to the use of small hydropower alone, we also save around €220 million in energy imports. Another € 85 to 140 million would be possible. That means to point out: The Water Framework Directive is to be implemented with a measure and objective, it must be kept in mind that we have clear rules that we have a promotion regulation that takes effect, is effective and is adopted, and that the procedures are carried out quickly and that no unnecessary obstacles are built in it, because it is only in this way that we can ensure that the clear commitment to the use of water power will also follow the corresponding actions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21579	Now I give Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21600	Mr President. High house! I would like to thank you very much for your input. I think there is general consensus in this House and in Austria that we want to make one of our most valuable goods, namely domestic water, our population in sufficient quality and sufficient quantity, now and in the future. All these measures serve this purpose. If the force of hydropower has been debated here as a result of the increased use of renewable energies, I also say yes as Minister of the Environment. Hydropower is a central component of renewable energy in Austria. We have a unique situation, and it is important to use it efficiently, which does not mean that environmental protection is tipped overboard and that, so to speak, every mountain valley is demonstrated. But that does not mean the energy industry either. It is crucial – and this is what I am talking about with the EIA law, which we have sent in our opinion – that there is a removal of unnecessary bureaucracy that does not produce multiple opinions, multi-disciplinary opinions, the taxpayers cost a lot of money and no longer bring it into the substance, and finally there is a decision at some point whether a project can be realized or not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to say – this is well-known to the House – that the national authorities are authorities of the first instance and that decisions have to be made there, that is to say, not the Federation of those who may want projects delayed, tossed or not at all, but that the national authorities are called on to carry out procedures effectively – not quickly, but efficiently – and well-foundedly. No one is deprived of this obligation, and I therefore hope that we can implement projects – large projects, but also small hydropower projects. I think it is important to examine, on a case-by-case basis, whether a project makes environmental, water-protection sense to realize it and, at the same time, whether it benefits from an energy policy. In principle, the issue of the National Water Management Plan is to ensure a good ecological status of our waters, including the quality of life of the population, plus an efficient way to involve all the population groups and to bring their concerns to the public in relation to Austrian waters. On the facts: The National Water Management Plan is a provisional final line under a six-year planning period. It includes, on the one hand, an assessment of the load of water – in the form of an iste inventory analysis, in all waters, as it existed in 2004, 2007 – and on the other hand it summarizes the results of monitoring and, on the other hand, – which is particularly important – measures and programmes in order to produce a good ecological state in the field of chemistry, the quantity in the waters by 2015. This National Water Management Plan – which has already been properly discussed – was to be published at the end of 2008. Due to the delays in the planning process with the countries, like many other EU Member States, we are not the only ones to go to the public only later, at the end of April of this year. This planning process has taken place in recent months, and the countries have had a six-month deadline for processing the raw materials. It is true that this type of planning for Austria, for all the institutions, including the countries, is new, while work on federal and country has delayed. It's not supposed to be kept silent here. Moreover, planning competence lies with the countries. Local and regional impulses for the water management plan must therefore come from the countries, this cannot come from the federal government, and therefore there have been delays here too. I'm just counting the facts as they are. It is true that the public participation process has already begun in more than half of the Member States of the European Union, but often with poor or incomplete documents. It is not the case that Austria is alone. This should not be a beautification of the matter, but simply a realistic inventory of what it is. We will ensure the six months of public participation – that is quite clear – so that we will then, 22nd. December this year, the final National Water Management Plan will be adopted. The public participation will be made available on 27 March at the latest. April begin, and during this six-month period until 27. In October, anyone can comment in writing. From November on the adoption of the opinions will begin, and it is realistic that the corresponding regulations will start on 22 November. ==References====External links== The legislative implementation of these programmes is then essentially with the countries. They then have a deadline of up to three years to implement it. Public participation: Austria is committed to an active participation of all interested bodies and wants to do so. The Law provides for an active participation of all interested bodies in the implementation of the Water Framework Directive, and in order to allow this to happen, a period of just six months must be granted under the law. In addition, a Round Table was set up in Austria to promote this active participation of particularly affected, particularly interested bodies, which meets the standards of the Public Participation Guide. To date, important stakeholders such as NGOs or power plant operators have been involved and have expressed their views. There has been a series of workshops on the implementation of the Water Framework Directive at both federal and national level and on the state-of-the-art analysis, as well as numerous presentations by stakeholders on request. There is a round table where relevant NGOs or power plant operators discuss the implementation of the Water Framework Directive and also the National Water Management Plan. Furthermore, all the relevant documents – the state-of-the-art analysis is, for example, such but also work drafts for the management plans – were made available to these stakeholders and NGOs at the Round Table. So you see, there is a very, very strong participation, a lot of work behind it, and the most important water management issues were also published in a brochure at the end of 2006. There was only one statement, which is also in the WISA. So you see, the focus here is very much placed on public participation. What will public participation be like over the next few months? – The full draft National Water Management Plan will be published, as well as a widely understood brochure with a summary. Both documents address the public’s views on the measures presented and also on the objectives. Comprehensive and vivid map material is also positioned on WISA. The opinions received on WISA, but also the comments submitted in writing, will be published. A document will explain how far these opinions are ultimately taken into account or not. This is in principle just as it happens in other legislative and regulatory opinions, but the period of opinion here is longer, just six months. ==References== April will also have an opening workshop to document this, and at the end of June and the end of September there will be further workshops at the federal level. Countries will also conduct events at national level; at least one event per country, perhaps there are several, depending on how necessary it is. They are mainly intended to address regional and local specificities. The workshops and the events should also have the opportunity to have oral consultation of the parties, in addition to the written opinions which are also possible. Overall, this public participation will be actively developed, informatively and consultatively, in the sense of the standards of public participation. You see, I myself have great interest in the fact that this is proper, in the sense of safeguarding our water resources and good ecological status of our waters. Austria is on the European average in connection with the implementation of the Water Framework Directive. We are on a good way to create plans for the river Danube and Rhine. This can and will make an important contribution to the development of the water economy in Austria as part of the international river basins. In this context, I should like to thank the staff of my home, the Ministry of Life, for their great, great commitment – and all of you for your positive contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21729	The last speaker in this short debate is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21750	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The 100-day deadline for the introduction of each new minister has expired, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: He didn't need it at all!]] He used it very well, but now, as it were, he's done with fun. [[Abg. Hornek: What does “lock with fun” mean?]] The answer to this question, Mr Berlakovich, really ridicules every description, because you were simply not prepared to take Parliament's right of interconnection seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But this, ladies and gentlemen, is what we expect from every minister. At least in the case, this has often brought your predecessor to a better end. You really have not even made the serious attempt to give us sufficient information on the state of the art. All in all, the answer is completely inadequate. Mr Federal Minister, you say, for example, in the answer to the question, that an opinion is already available on the website. We have desperately tried to find this opinion. You have not mentioned what opinion it is, where it is to be found, nor have you attached this opinion to the reply to the question. They have said that the countries have already submitted the documents essentially. You have not mentioned which documents from which countries, you have not provided any supplements in this request answer. It is already working on everything possible. We've heard that again. Mr. Federal Minister, that's not how it is! You have to take the office seriously. [[Abg. May. Molterer: He doesn't need the Pirklhuber for it!]] We expect an Environment Minister to provide this House with sufficient, comprehensive information. And if you have to admit that there are still failures, then you stand by it and call date, program and real schedule for the measures! You have not done this again in your oral answer. We see this as a real manko, and it is clear that you are obviously not really worth the ecological water protection – except for lip confessions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Some colleagues have addressed the Raab interface. National water management plan would mean preparing for each single water flow plan an appropriate action plan. You have also been responsible there, and this example also shows that cross-border cooperation is necessary across national borders, both across federal borders and across national borders. There are mistakes that I expect you to become really active in this area and to put all your concepts on the table. What is it all about? – It is about several interfaces, ladies and gentlemen. On the one hand, it is about improving the flow of water, it is about the groundwater state. You are right, of course we are all in favour of raising Austrian water, but we also need the necessary measures to do so. It is important to improve groundwater and not to fail to put in place measures in the field of groundwater protection – Mr Schultes has wiped it away so inconsistencies – so that that water can finally be drinkable again, which can now only be placed on the market with exceptions in Austria. It's also about rehabilitation here, about drinking water rehabilitation. Mr Gaßner knows this very well. He has long been mayor in such a region. These are homeworks that we have to do, too. The challenges of the future, Mr. Federal Minister, are not unknown: Climate action, flood protection. This is also an essential aspect of these National Water Management Plans. I'm not saying there's no instruments at all. I am also glad that we have implemented such a funding instrument – even on the basis of pressure from the Greens – in the context of the Environmental Promotion Act, promoting the ecologicalisation of floodwaters. Yes, there is. This is treated and carried out in the Austrian municipal credit in the field of water management. But in what overall context, in which staging does this instrument move? – Mr Federal Minister, you have not given any answers. The objective, the target conflicts, especially in the field of power plant construction, have now really more than bypassed you. I can only say stone and clear: We stand for the protection of the last free flow of water – which is just 3 to 5 percent in Austria – and it is essential that the environmental impact assessment procedures are implemented in all consequences for these projects. It is not possible to handle excuses here and to blur things with one another. It is a matter of speedy handling of these procedures, but the full involvement of the population, which must be preserved, must be maintained. And there you are, Minister of State. And something else: At the next question, please also keep in mind the use of this House that you give your opinion immediately after the first speaker, who is responsible and who represents it, so that all Members have the opportunity to address your arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21831	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[18:14:50]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21857	We shall resume the negotiations on items 11-13 of the agenda. Mr Windholz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21882	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister, he's still here for a moment. There is a law on economic recovery – which the government parties also like to sell as a “economic package” – as well as two other applications, one submitted by us. It is decided that an investment premium, which we have also requested in a request, will be presented in a fundamentally different way. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: Wrong! This is wrong, my colleague.]] Investment aid, which is decided, is, in some way, a tax advance. We always wanted an investment premium, for example, an investment volume of € 100 000, 10 percent will be shot directly, that is € 10,000 for the operation. - You've taken a different model. You say now, € 250 million for 2011, next year € 350 million. These are means that not only meet the League, but also countries and communities. Mr Gaßner has told me that the communities are all very rosy, I think it is less. This is, in a way, an advance. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You act responsibly!]] – They act responsibly. Mr Gaßner supports the fact that the share of income is significantly reduced! I'll tell you the numbers. In this package alone, which we have decided under item 1 of the agenda, it is the same with the tariff reduction you call tax reform. 2010: the countries € 54 million, the municipalities € 29 million; 2011: the countries € 75 million, € 41 million the municipalities. The whole is then expected to be cost-neutral, i.e. no more revenue is expected from 2013 onwards, and more revenue is expected over the next five years to the extent of the original lower income – see the cover of the government template. We from BZÖ do not want this, we want a direct premium. This would also benefit all those companies that do not make profits, for they also exist. We secure jobs as the highest priority with such a measure. I think that would be fundamentally reasonable and that much better model. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this debate, too, we must note what is also a basic condition, namely that banks lend loans. This is currently – you can say it again and again – not enough. Many companies have difficulty obtaining loans. That's reality. This money does not arrive in the real economy. If you always praise the unanimity of the 100 billion, I also say that it was very, very useful so that the escape from savings can not take place. What we have expected is that the money we make available here also arrives in the real economy. This is a fundamental condition for investment. Again, back to the communities. I can already tell Mr Gaßner – as Mrs Schittenhelm has already explained – how this is happening in my federal state, in Lower Austria. There is a separate audit department for charges and fees, and the audit practice usually ends with the invitation to increase taxes and fees. If you've been famous before, no matter if that's 20, 30, 40 or 50 €, in this trend that the communities are burdened, it's obvious that water charges, canal fees are increased. This is possible through the Financial Balance Act. There you can, under certain conditions, cancel up to the double of what is planned for budgeting to be cost-effective. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You may only collect for a fee!]] – No, they do much more; they are always invited to do so. That is, by what you have promised people today – I am telling you now – the tax screw will be turned on in many, many communities, and it will then be done in such a way that all of this will be delivered as taxes, fees and taxes. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You do not know the difference between taxes and fees!]] This is not a measure for us to deal with the situation. I think you're gonna give me a big chance because that's not the best way.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21967	Mrs. Lichtenecker now speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e21989	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The forecasts and prospects for the next few years justify the measure, namely the 30 percent early depreciation contained in this proposal for a law, and therefore we will also agree to this proposal, although it was noted here that it would have been very innovative and forward-looking to focus on modern technologies, energy efficiency and renewable energies. But let us look at the state of implementation as it is part of the so-called economic recovery package. To what extent is this advanced? In order to remain at the same time as the priorities: What is it like to look at the two Austrian economic packages in terms of environmental expenditure and economic recovery? – The result is very thin! Even if you are friendly, you can reach a maximum of 10 percent. If you look at the current analysis in the “time” compared to this, you can see that even Germany comes to 13 percent and France to 21 percent and that China reaches 38 percent and South Korea has the peak of 81 percent. It is well recognized that there are many good jobs in this new green area, and that is investing accordingly. We very much miss that in this country! Although the € 100 million for the rehabilitation check in connection with the thermal renovation has been like a phantom by the media for weeks, we still do not know how this should be handled and what criteria have been set for it. At the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, too, the question arises how much will actually flow into thermal renovation and energy efficiency. Many points are open, and if you look at the loans and liabilities agreed on and at the AWS, you will notice that even here the result is very poor and the implementation level is still like at the beginning. You must not forget: ==References====External links== It was decided on 1 October 2008. Since then, five months have passed, and there is not much on rail; the whole has not yet been very effective. Finally, there is much to be done in the field of research. Research is necessary especially in times of poor economic conditions. As a result, it is necessary to invest in the future and to: to be researched so that you are ready to start. There is also a very specific number of jobs in this area. That is why my appeal to finally act with regard to research institutions and to put a corresponding budget on the table, because they now have to make decisions as to how they continue to work! Not only the greens are looking at this with a critical eye, but others have also found that you finally need to turn on the turbo and make pace to move forward. This can be seen from the “NEWS” of tomorrow: Salzburg's head of state Burgstaller is concerned about the implementation of the economic package, and also head of state Pühringer criticises the government by saying: The situation is dramatic. Ladies and gentlemen! In this issue of “NEWS, ” you can see all the heads of state together in a picture under the headline “More Speed Against the Crisis! ” Please take this to heart!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22053	Next speaker: Mr Großruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22074	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone is talking about the economic recovery package. Everyone demands it. Today we are so far, that we can take an important step, namely measures that are both forward-looking for the private – in terms of thermal renovation – and also for the public. We are also visually and acoustically, and also outwardly visible, to document that, in order to revive the economy, we also need to invest on a structural basis. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have a big problem here in Parliament: Since the house's walk through a specialist, by Professor Dr. Rant, we know that our Parliament building has been broken. It is in a desperate state. Look Get her up here! The black spot you see is not the empty seat of an ÖVP-ler, but there is a bulge up there, in which the incoming water is collected, because the roof is harmful. The bale is broken. The electrical systems are broken. Those who went through the house could take a picture of the condition of this building. Every mayor, as I would like to say, would have to block such a building, if it were in his community, from building police! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations and congratulations with Green MEPs.]] I'm saying this to prove the drama. But there is consensus that this building is usable. – But if something happens, gentlemen, you have to ask yourself: Who's to blame? - I don't want to blame it. That is why I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That means: General reorganisation with sensible and also proposed by the expert to integrate the reorganisation of the meeting room. It's just a shame, ladies and gentlemen, that it's just a four-party request and that the Freedom Party is not involved for reasons I don't know. That's a shame! It would be a question of consensus, and I believe it is not the time for political change. So let me conclude by bringing a threefold four-liner: The rain comes in, the water comes out, broken is our High House. A skilled man mounts in an urgent manner, the house belongs to generalized. And violent alarm he struck that it was a danger already in a delay. Very quickly, it is repaired so that nothing worse happens. The blues alone are against it, they seem to be in the rain. That’s where I ask myself, Mr. Strache: Who's got a roof damage?
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22164	The motion for a resolution tabled is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22236	Next speaker: Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22258	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the economic situation in which we are currently in which job losses of between 20 and 40 percent are repeated almost daily, the government is doing everything it can to support those areas in which it is to be supported. We have already heard that something is happening in general and in the area of thermal renovation as well as in the field of research and development. It is of course an investment incentive if, with the Income Tax Law Novelle, which we decide to provide early tax depreciation opportunities amounting to 30 percent for economic goods purchased in 2009 and 2010. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I also ask you to go there from the opposition! This also helps you and shows that you are also interested in what the government is doing, namely keeping jobs where there are still jobs, and thus supporting consumption. If people have work and safety, then our businesses are also served. People need positive signals, and the government sends positive signals next to the economic packages that have already been decided. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] Dear Member of the FPÖ, it would be nice if you, who always say that you are there for the “little man” and for the small and medium-sized companies, exactly with this early writing possibility! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22297	Next, Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22318	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! As far as this House's request is concerned, there is only so much to say: It is clear that this is necessary now. The fact that priorities are also set in view of the damage and threat situations also seems reasonable. I only remember – and this leads directly to the issue of economic policy – that we had a debate whether to save here in times of the economic crisis. – I mean, politics has not proved to be a good service, because if it is true that the crisis is so pervasive that private individuals are investing less and less, then it will be useful if the public hand is investing! Therefore, it is also useful and reasonable that credit and, so to speak, debt are received at all. If this is the basic consensus, then the House should go ahead with a good example, and it should not be constantly – even in other debates, whether it is education policy or something else – given the rolling crisis in “self-hypnosis”, that even more – in the sense of less expenditure – needs to be saved. This is the economic one of the greatest displeasures! It can't stay like that! Whatever is right is to act efficiently. In this regard, we can offer you many songs from the Court of Auditors' work! No question: That's always right! Public spending will make sense if – hopefully soon – there is something like an upturn again and the private can invest accordingly. This is the one time, and I don't understand how it has been possible to mess up lately! But now we have the hope of improvement. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the draft law: Yes! In this case, we agree, although, as I believe, the motto should be applied here: Don't use it, it won't hurt anything! That is what I say about this possibility of early depreciation, because that now brings a lot of economic and thus employment policy, we are not yet convinced. But be it! Indeed, there is a special incentive for entrepreneurs to invest more now if they have a particularly high profit expectations over the next one to two years and the early depreciation reduces the basis for this, which could benefit them. Where, however, all those who have a particularly high expectations for the next one to two years are sitting, I do not know! They may be publicly praised because this is certainly a train for the economic climate! But that will probably not work now! – But it does not in any case cause any damage, because those who claim it will then pay more taxes later. So now is the construction of the premature depreciation. Finally, Mr State Secretary, I would like to say that the findings have already been made – perhaps you should address them again –: Most packages get hold of them and don't work! The mid-sized billions are not affected. We only get to the edge with the construction. The second story with the BIG works in the form as you claim, in no case. And from the 100 million check you want to impose here, we'll still have enough trouble to expect. Explain So you once, how and especially when all of this should work, and do You don't always feel like everything's already on track! Let's see that something really goes on!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22373	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22394	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Kogler, it is not about everything being on track, but about the fact that the Federal Government is trying to speedily implement measures at a time when the real economy is affected by a crisis, which will help it again. I think that this should be in the interests of all the political groups here in the House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 16 percent of GDP generates the tourism and leisure sector in Austria. It thus offers around 200 000 employees a job and is thus truly an important part of the Austrian economy. If we could still have a plus in winter tourism, we are very happy about it, but at the same time we welcome all the measures that have been taken. strengthen tourism. Tourism, as we all know, provides jobs for people, especially in the area. Today's measure again contributes to strengthening the industry. As we all know, this is not a measure alone, Mr Kogler, but, ultimately, the sum of the measures is crucial that the economy is revitalized accordingly. It is not a single activity, it is a sum of measures! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] This investment in the tourism and leisure sector – for example, when a restaurant company renews the room facilities – benefits the local economy locally, and it is essential that one now creates incentives in this area or sets out economic measures. For example, if the old oil boiler is replaced by more energy-efficient measures, this is something that benefits quality tourism, has great quality for the environment and is of great impact and importance for regional employment policies. However, I believe that the doubling of the ÖHT to €500 million is also an essential aspect in this context, and I also hope for much of the increase in tourism promotions for the next two years. In this way we can strengthen the tourism sector, which is an essential part of the Austrian economy and also of employment, and I believe that this is an essential point in strengthening regional value added. I therefore call on you to give your assent to this proposal too.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22451	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22473	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Certainly in the context of economic recovery It is hoped that the tax reform will have its influence on the consumption behaviour of Austrians. It is now about keeping investments high and not letting forecasts come true, which say that investments in our country will fall. 700 million € are not little. By the way, Mr Collegue, this is true of the communities as well as of the Federation and the countries. This is the case if you are taking fiscal measures. It has also always failed to improve depreciation opportunities, to pay premiums, as there will be much more expensive takeover effects. That's what we've finally experienced. 700 million € are when the budget figures of the financial resort go up, not little, and they are a real help to keep the investments high. Ladies and gentlemen, it makes sense to be limited to two years, because Austria's entrepreneurs act rationally and very decisively when planning investments. When this investment is finally made, however, it is often also an emotional decision – and an investment incentive in the sense of early depreciation, as envisaged here, can be quite useful. I invite Austrian investors to make use of it, especially in the next 24 months!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22509	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22532	Mr President. High house! I think it is necessary to point out once again from our group that Mr Grossruck has tabled a request concerning the renovation of our Parliament building and, above all, this House. We also regret that it was not possible to come to a five-party request after an objective discussion in the Building Committee with professional information and support from the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, for which I would particularly like to thank myself. I am not quite clear about the reasoning either. I would simply say that the Freedom Party, through its representative in the Building Committee, somehow made the position look through: Well, let's pull in a few new lines, and we'll flick the roof, and then the problem is solved! - I don't think it's that simple. Rehabilitation, maintenance and conversion make sense when you do it in one. I think we are saving ourselves a lot of money in the medium term. Furthermore, the planning and the situation certainly cannot be said here that there are any “luxury-building works” as read in a press release of the Freedom Party. I think the responsibility has been accepted by the President of Parliament and by Parliament. The Building Committee has agreed to reassess and continue further discussions in the near future. As far as the question of danger in delay is concerned, the construction police is active and will soon provide a report and a positioning. That means that it is all done – I want to express that – what is to be done in such a situation. It only makes sense to do everything together: Remodeling of the hall with renovation and maintenance.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22575	Mr Fichtenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22596	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! On the request of Mr Grossruck: We have therefore not added our signature because we do not believe that this hall should be built for expensive money. However, we feel that the necessary rehabilitation measures, as far as roofs, escape routes and so on are concerned, must be implemented radically and immediately. These are two different pairs of shoes on the one hand, renewal for a shine that doesn't have to be! [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens]] Mr Grossruck believes that he should be making jokes with poems. So that you can see that we too and I have humor, Mr. Cot, listen -: Closes Grossruck's tail, goes a whirlwind through the banks. High house not big enough For the mind of great ruck!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22646	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Income Tax Act in 1988 – Economic Recovery Act 2009, including title and receipt in 91 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. This draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the reduction of political relations and on the contribution of senior officials by 4 per cent. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority and thus rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Cap, Kopf, Bucher, Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the recasting of the National Council Hall. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 14.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Financial Committee to take note of his report 135 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its report 136 of the supplements. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:44:40]] 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (92 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing an eco-premie for vehicle exchange (Eco-ROM) (137 d.e.c.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22746	We're coming to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22773	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, it's going to be clumsy and not clumsy. It seems to me that the government has not yet realized that the situation of the economy is very serious that we are in a recession that makes us fear the worst. Today, the newspaper says that the car sales are broken by 22 percent, that car suppliers lose 60 percent of their turnover, and that this sector is in whole, very bad needs. And then there is this eco-premie, which is already very suspicious of its name. Although the name is basically not wrong, it is nevertheless wrong. There's a dealer promotion here. That's probably going to be good for the discounts. Today, “NEWS” reads that 32 percent are already given discounts. 13-year-old cars are scrapped. That's what I'm asking myself: Who can afford a new car if he drives for 13 years with an old one? It's probably second-car owners. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is all just a small attempt to boost the economy. I think if you're fucking, you're supposed to do reasonable things. We believe that the abandonment of the NOVA would be the right answer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then, too, the Austrian subcontractor industry would have some of it, because voest-plates are also sold there. Therefore, the NoVA should be suspended. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is about the support of 350 000 workers working in this sector. I think it would be worth supporting this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22846	The application submitted is properly filed and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22907	Mr Steindl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22928	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grastaur has just said that the abolition of the NOVA would have failed. Mr Grazauer, this measure of €1500 premium is always more than the abolition of the NOVA when buying a new vehicle. We know that the average NOVA load at this vehicle category is about 600 € to 700 €. I believe that this measure by Minister Mitterlehner is an excellent one to support the car industry at this economically difficult time. We have repeatedly experienced sales declines, in recent months, in the order of 16 to 17 percent, and in the trucks it is unfortunately even worse. However, this measure will certainly contribute a great deal to the massive support of the automotive sector. It is also a requirement of solidarity because we have now established an automotive area in Austria, which covers more than 170 000 employees. We currently have the largest number of short-time workers in this area, and that is why this measure will bring about appropriate impulses. It can be seen from the example of the Federal Republic of Germany that this “retardant premium” as it is called there has proved to be the best way of promoting the sale of new vehicles. This eco-premie will be a win-win situation for all parties involved. Manufacturers will be able to market more vehicles. The dealers and manufacturers participate in half of this 1 500-€ premium, i.e. the Federal Government spends half of it here. On the other hand, it is also a win situation for the state if these 30 000 units are sold more – which will certainly be the case – because consumers' taxes are particularly positive. In addition, it is also a win situation for the ecological circumstances of our country when we remove these 13-year-old vehicles from the road that have a much higher pollutant emissions than the new vehicles. I believe that this is ultimately a particularly good measure. I would like to thank the Federal Minister on behalf of the automotive industry for this and hope that we may even be able to put something on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e22980	Mr Linder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23001	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The eco-premie requested here is still not quite clear whether this is a premium from an environmental point of view or a premium for economic promotion. From an environmental point of view, it is not quite clear to me why only certain cars should be promoted, while cars belonging to an operating capacity have been removed and this scrapping premium should not be received. I also think: If someone drives a car for 13 years, he wants to end it until it's 14 or 15 years old. It's not quite clear whether he'll be ready to scrap this car because of this 1,500 €. From an environmental point of view, it is also questionable whether it makes sense to scrap a car that, as a second car, may consume only a small amount of fuel, while energy consumption in scrapping is a very high. That is why, I believe, the expression “ecoperaemia” is not correct. However, if we are to take measures to strengthen the economy or to support the purchasing power of the citizens, the premium, I believe, is not appropriate. To promote a 13-year-old car with €1500, I do not think it can be the incentive – which, above all, is limited to 30,000 cars for 2009. In Germany it was said that in the scrapping of a nine-year-old car there is a premium of €2 500. I believe – and this is also the opinion of the BZÖ – that we in Austria should go the way for us to abolish the NOVA; for this would strengthen the purchase of cars in the longer term, strengthen the counterparts and thus support our economy in all cases.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23043	Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23065	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This scrapping or eco-premie is relatively simple: This is not a national measure, but at European level there is a coordinated action by several countries which, in this context, jointly think and act in a European context and jointly decide on a scrapping or eco-premie in several European countries. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Excuse me, this is a national Parliament!]] We are here in solidarity and we are also contributing to this Europe-wide measure. I think it's also ecologically meaningful. I think it can be assumed that in 99.8 percent of cases cars purchased today are ecologically better than those purchased 13, 14 or 15 years ago. I also believe that it is socially quite correct, because I assume that people who have a car that is 13 years old and have a residual value of €1500 are not necessarily of the highest income class. I also believe that from a European point of view, it is economically useful to do so. It can be seen that those countries that have already introduced this – a little different country – have been very successful with it, and at least in the short term these measures have led to significant sales increases. The Austrian supplier industry is of course dependent – not on the Austrian market, but on the European market. In this respect, it is reasonable for us to act in solidarity here. All those who say that the German eco-premie of our supplier industry is more useful than the Austrian ones are right. But believe me, on European issues we have often needed the solidarity of others in the past and will still need them often enough in the future. In this respect, we can certainly put in place solidarity measures. On the question of whether to suspend the NOVA instead: a clear no. The fact that the level does not go as far as the eco-premie is concerned has already been explained, but on the other hand the ecological effect would be lacking. As already announced in the Financial Committee, in the meantime, on Friday, the Data Protection Council has spoken, and we have already announced that there may be an amendment. I'm allowed to bring this one in: [[Quoted print version removed]] This takes into account the opinion of the Data Protection Council, namely that there is no abuse of these numbers either. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Again!]] I'm seeking approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23136	The amendment is properly submitted and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23194	Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23215	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Honestly, you have to say that what we now have to decide is a true tax-money-burning action, because – I quote first the chairman of the Burgenland Chamber of Commerce, Peter Nemeth: ‘The car trade is better off than some believe.’ Then why are you making a loss of tax money out of the ordinary? This €50.60 million is urgently needed in the educational field, in the rehabilitation area, in the thermal insulation et cetera! Why do you do this if the car dealer doesn't need it at all? It is a purely car-trading premium. Their name “ecoperaemia” is anyway the greatest insult to every person who has some sort of home mind! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary, how can we say “ecoperemia” to a scrapping premium at European level, because it is ecologically, CO2-to-co-productive when an old car is scrapped and for example a VW Touareg is purchased, which, with your premium, reduces its CO2 emissions by EUR 1,500 than an old, small car?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Grill: You think very theoretically and have no idea of practice!]] – I can give you a lot of lists, lists of cars with huge CO2 emissions that you are promoting because you have not introduced any pollutant classes but Euro-4 at your scrapping premium and no CO2 limit! I can give you another quote for your tax-money-burning action, which we are now about to decide. Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs, someone from your home, namely energy control chief Walter Boltz. In a press release, he is quoted as follows: "Public funds for economic recovery should be much more closely linked to energy standards and binding savings programmes, Boltz said. For example, at the scrapping premium, one has ‘ missed a chance’ because the money spent on it has not been linked to the spray consumption’. And you say “ecoperemia”! Excuse me, how stupid do you really think people are?- Oh, my God! I mean, that's not even cockbled, that's bullshit to the square! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Incredible!]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] Minister for Economic Affairs, particularly interesting to me Your turn around – or what do you call it when you change your mind? – one could also call it a weatherlike approach. They were originally very opposed to us introducing this scrapping premium. Then the lobbyists were with you, one, two, three weeks. Then it has already been said that we have to consider, there is still the European framework and so on. And at the latest in the fourth week, I think you then presented us with this miscarriage of tax money waste. That is why I can present you with an alternative proposal. We want to have a real eco-premie, namely that people travelling by public transport or by bicycle are encouraged. This also benefits the local, regional bicycle industry in Austria, which is more pronounced than the car industry. With your premium, you can finance almost more or less the auto-import from Fernando, because most Austrians now buy in the segment. It is export and economic policy of the pure displeasure what you are doing! Therefore, our request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would really be an important contribution to climate change. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] With regard to climate change and the problems, I have another proposal, Mr Minister, since the ÖVP and SPÖ are now at once against the Gigalins: I would have liked to have a motion for a resolution which you could agree with immediately. Motion for a resolution by Mr Gabriela Moser, colleagues The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, is invited to oppose the European or other authorisation of "Gigalins" at all appropriate levels "as soon as possible, precautionaryly and massively. In any case, this includes: resistance also to any authorisation of gigaliners not directly mandatory for Austria because of the negative retroactive effects on Austria; resistance to alleged ‘compromises’ such as 45 or 50 tonnes gigalins; resistance to Gigaliner authorisation by Member States instead of by the EU; Resistance and active lobbying against EU Commission’s trend studies.” That would be a step in the common direction, but no thank you! to your pseudo-shrinking ecoperaemia, which is actually only brain scrap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23321	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23487	Next came Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23509	Mr President. Mr President, I should like to thank My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that the introduction of an eco-premie can be viewed in different ways and in different ways. I've done the same myself and I'm sure I can confirm that we're at the car summit on 8 October. January 2009, with the dealers, but in particular with the automotive industry, have agreed that we are looking at the overall development in Europe. If you look at this development, you will see that the trend has now begun, that in actually very vie countries – only in Slovakia yesterday and probably in the Czech Republic – this eco-premie, partly called the scrapping premium, will be introduced. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: They have all the pollutant boundaries!]] As far as the introduction and the various motives are concerned, different perspectives can be seen. But it can't be both right or both wrong. The concerns of Mr Grauburd that the one who has an old car at the age of 13 will not be able financially to buy a new car, even if a premium of €1500 is introduced, cannot be correct at the same time, should the accusation of Mrs. Col. Moser agree that the one who has no money at all and has an old car will then buy the VW Touareg. Either that's not true or that's not true. I think the truth can be seen in the middle, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, 13-year-old cars in the field of pollutant class Euro 0 and 1 come out of the market. That's an environmental advantage. However, it would be very difficult for you to start the discussion as in Germany at the age of ten. Imagine a car ten years old. This is simply from a certain use and negotiation value and would probably go off in the used car market. That is why it is right to move the border in the 13-year-olds area. I think that's one aspect. The second point is that we have a corresponding spray at the NOVA as far as CO2 is concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: It's too small!]] It is therefore very correct not to use another component here, namely petrol or other spray consumption. The next point: In Germany, you take in much more money, namely 2 500 €. With us the 1,500 € – this is a mean value – are half borne by the industry. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's what they put off the tax anyway!]] Mrs. Moser, take a look at the relationship: We apply in about €23 million, in Germany this is €1.5 billion! The second half comes from dealers and importers. Put this in relation to the costs that we have to spend in the area, for example, of the AUA or elsewhere, in order to do the whole process – I also find it correct and necessary! – and with what we move at €22.5 million! Only by applying this topic on the advertising market, the ads are already worth more – and the entire industry that operates in this context benefits – than what will be added to the 30 000 cars. Why is hacking wood so popular? Because you see success right away. I would not limit and focus on economic packages to this eco-premie. But why is she so good? Because the market is broken down by 15 percent in January. Now it will move with small means. I think it's also a solidaract. It's not like we're saying, Our automotive supplier industry exports to all countries of the world, but we are not solidarian. That is why I would ask you to look at this point of view. See it all! I'd say, This measure is an excellent measure to revive the market right now, at the right time. Do you know what the market still depends on it? - Jobs! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: When they buy Koreans and Japanese!]] And we need them more than ever before. That is why I would like to thank all those involved for their approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23585	The next speaker is Mr Hoefinger. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23607	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! For hours now, we have been discussing the current economic situation and also the threatening development, because the forecasts we have are not very rosy. You have to see that and say so. But what's amazing is: So far, too many measures and implementations that we have already voted on have always been closed down from the opposition! There is no point where you have really voted and helped to meet this economic crisis and give people security. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: At the business package!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] That's what you have to mention. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, this also applies to new vehicles in the field of eco-premie. Mr Moser and Mr Grastaur, I call you a few figures so that you know what this is really about. Tens of thousands of people are currently in short supply, and the forecasts say that in spring there will be 300,000 employees in the automotive industry, in manufacturing, in the subcontracting industry that will be in short work. And of course these are also afraid of their workplace. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] In the meantime, the figures for March are such that approximately 100 000 vehicles are produced in the European area less than planned or compared to the previous year. Of course, you can discuss everything, but you can also break everything – and you do it very clearly here! It was important to us – and I say so – that we revive the economy and that we do the sales promotion. This eco-premie is quite achievable. If Mr Linder does not know what it is really all about – he said it himself, he does not know exactly what the background is – then I can tell you: It's very easy. It has multiple uses: It supports and creates and keeps jobs, it supports and maintains the economic location and is also a support for those who have not been able to afford a car in recent months. It's a help. [[Abg. May. Darmann: What is against the abolition of the NoVA?]] And what's special is: It also helps the environment! It has an environmental aspect because old vehicles are exchanged by new, modern vehicles that comply with environmental standards. – A total of €45 million, which is useful and targeted.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23674	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Kogler. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Maximum speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23699	Mr President. My previous speaker, Mr Höfinger, has just claimed that the opposition would not have voted in favour of any single point, and by the way let it sound, that it has no counter-proposals. In fact, I am correcting – which will also be taken into account in the minutes of today’s meeting – that both at Top 7 and at Top 11, the so-called Economic Recovery Act 2009, groups of the opposition, but always the Greens, have agreed. – That is corrective to this displeasure. I would also like to point out that: If the opposition is against something in the meantime but at the same time speaks of the fact that the tax money is not to be used in this way, but also different, it is a permissible approach and must not be defamated by such nonsense. [[Abg. Hoefinger: This is not a correction!]] First of all, watch out for yourself, second of all, and then you'll be brave!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23733	Mr Kogler, that was hard at the border of actual correction. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23766	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Thus, the scrapping premium – also called eco-premie – is to be another building block in the package of measures to stimulate the economy, to provide financial relief for people and to discharge the environment. That sounds good and ambitious, but it won't work. It will therefore not work, Mr Minister, because in Austria, unlike Germany, the car trade shares the cost of the premium with the state. And it will not work either because the handling of the promotion will be in the hands of the vehicle trade and not with the approval offices. In other words, the dealer will, if he can expect, make two offers to the customer: a worse offer in case the scrapping premium is accepted, a more favourable one if it is not accepted. The scrapping premium is therefore nothing but pure dealer subsidies at the expense of the drivers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another negative effect of this procedure: With increased demand, all discounts will disappear rapidly, prices will rise. In our neighbouring country, in Germany, the scrapping premium is already leading to an increase in new car prices. Another mistake is to believe that our car supply industry would have anything of it. On the contrary, the car supply industry in Austria is key supplier for German luxury car manufacturers. The least customers, who will drive the scrap boxes today and use this scrapping premium, have the money to buy a new BMW or Mercedes, where the extras make up a multiple of the premium. They will not even buy a European model, but they will prefer an Asian model, and in doing so – I can say – is hardly a part of “Made in Austria”. Summary: The cars are getting more expensive, we are subsidising foreign jobs with our urgently needed taxpayers, and the consumer, for whom all this is organised ahead, has nothing of it. Why do we make such a economic nonsense and do not actually implement innovative ideas? For example, as has already been said and as part of our request, it would be a temporary suspension of the NoVA or a temporary suspension of the motor insurance tax when purchasing a car in 2009 or full tax deductibility of company cars or, as in Spain, state-based loans at certain times. The idea of favouring the acquisition of a new car through tax incentives is in principle correct. The current situation also afforded the opportunity to end with a stroke the bizarre Austrian special road of numerous anti-investment taxes and taxes. In its place, a vehicle control system could take place, which is environmentally and investment-friendly. Unfortunately, nothing can be seen far and wide. We cannot and do not want to contribute to economic nonsense, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23821	The next item is the speech by Mr Wenninger. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23844	Mr President. Minister! The course of today's meeting and also of the last plenary session have made it possible to expect that requests from the government parties, as mosaics for the recovery of the Austrian economy from the opposition to the most part, Mr Kogler, will be dissociated and mistreated and will not find the consent of the opposition. Try to do something with me! [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: It's hard!]] - Then you have to keep trying! – jobs You think that SPÖ and ÖVP would not have filed this bill. I am convinced that green mandates, perhaps Dr. Moser, with the brustton of conviction, would have demanded the introduction of an eco-premie, a “screw premium” – in quotation marks – with the green argument that by removing old cars from the traffic, it would be possible to reduce CO2 emissions by increasing energy efficiency. And with the same breasttone of conviction, probably the mandates of FPÖ and BZÖ would have also argued. Then we would have heard of commuters who depend on their old car. Then the argumentation chain would probably have come from the so-called second-vehicle and from social security. Ladies and gentlemen, only to follow the oppositional reflex is too little. With the argument: Everything is nothing, and nothing is still too little!, let's not go on. I would ask you to follow this line of thought and also to follow your own argument in other agenda items. Support It is this measure of the Austrian Federal Government to reduce the impact of the economic crisis and to ensure Austrian and European jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23882	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Hofer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23903	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! This is precisely the point that we are concerned that this does not ensure Austrian jobs, because the supply industry in Austria will not necessarily do the big business at the Dacia Logan. Ladies and gentlemen, I make another proposal: Why don't we make a scrapping premium... – Mr. Matznetter, you trust to talk?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You said two years ago: Please, don't privatize AUA! You are responsible for having to give the AUA with €500 million of loss today, and you trust to open your mouth?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are making a scrapping premium for old oil boilers! – Mr Matznetter, you have still not understood! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Don't make our supplier industry ready!]] We deliver for high-quality cars, not for the Dacia Logan! For your former van! Ladies and gentlemen, more sensible would be a scrapping premium for old oil boilers, for example, for old oil heaters. The value added remains in Austria as well. Small and medium-sized enterprises install these boilers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are great companies in Austria that also produce these boilers. So that would be a good measure. That is why I am also bringing forward the following motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Mr Hofer and other Members: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to submit a government proposal to introduce an eco-premium for the exchange of old-age heating boilers.”
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e23970	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24019	Mr Brosz spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24044	Mr President. As this request has been tabled by the last speaker and there has been no way of examining it in any form, I would ask you to put the vote on this item on the agenda behind the next item in order to allow an examination.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24088	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As in the foreseeable future, after the relatively short debate on the Rules of Procedure, which will follow, I shall be voting anyway, I will follow this proposal or wish of the Green Group and the vote will be appended to the follow-up to the debate on the Rules of Procedure. [[19:20:07]] 15. Point Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on motion for a resolution (Doc. Barbara Prammer, Fritz Neugebauer, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Herbert Scheibner, Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act and a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. 1975) (94 d.b.) (Second reading).............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24130	We're coming to 15. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Pendl has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24157	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Since this is a common request, I believe that this content is known to all political groups. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] This is not a matter of course, Mr Grosz. We have been for years – for years! - nothing done in this area. The reasons are known. If we are dealing with each other, I believe that we can very well decide on many points, as we did in the joint joint committee and at night in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which we made an important contribution to the future. I would also like to thank all the political groups, but I should also like to invite you to continue to deal with the other outstanding issues, such as minority rights and other issues, with great elan and in a positive sense, in the foreseeable future, all of us, as I believe, both the President and all the political leaders in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I am looking forward to working in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and, finally, in the Committee and wish us good luck together in renewing the Rules of Procedure. I cordially invite you to this cooperation!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24197	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Dr. Karl. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24218	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We need to do our parliamentary work. a strict regulatory system which ensures the smooth implementation of our work in the committees, but also in our other parliamentary activities. The roots of our Rules of Procedure are even going back to 1848, with, of course, our Rules of Procedure in force today from 1975 and since that time have been changed or supplemented several times. It is of course a matter of course that a matter of law is constantly being developed. This sounds banal, and one could think that this would not have to be mentioned extra, but for me as a labour lawist it is not natural, because in labour law, for example, the trade regulations of 1859 still apply to the group of workers. In comparison, in recent years, in the area of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, we have experienced a very far-reaching development, Mr Pendl. And I'm really happy about that. But leave it. I should now like to refer briefly to the amendments to the Rules of Procedure proposed here. One of these innovations concerns the more lively and flexible design of Question Time. This concern has already led to a change in Question Time, by means of the Novelle Rules of Procedure in 1993. In the meantime, however, it has been shown that Question Time is doing quite well for a further modernisation or attraction shift. We have therefore agreed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that the President-in-Office of the Council, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Council, of 30 June 1989 on the basis of a proposal from the Commission to the Council for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the coordination of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member Another innovation concerns the completion of government reports. The Novelle Rules of Procedure 1996 shifted the completion of reports from the plenary debates to public committees. This should relieve the agenda of plenary sessions and make the meetings more manageable. The aim of this amendment is now to strengthen the current practice of agreeing in the Presidium on how many reports each group can bring to its plenary session, also in the Rules of Procedure. It is also new that all government reports will be publicly negotiated in the future, whether they will end in committee or not. Finally, the possibility of breaking the existing principle of discontinuity in certain cases is also opened. In concrete terms, popular desire, citizens' initiatives, Court of Auditors reports, federal accounts and public prosecutors' reports will in future not expire with the end of a legislative period and therefore will not have to be reintroduced, but will simply continue to be dealt with in the new National Council. Finally, the last point concerns the adjustment of the electoral age in relation to citizens' initiatives, i.e. the reduction of age in relation to support conditions for citizens' initiatives from 19 to 16 years. These are useful measures that we naturally support. And I am glad that we have reached unanimity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24282	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24306	Mr President. I can be quite brief, because my predecessor has already described this paper very clearly. In fact, it has been surprising that at least on these points we were able to reach a very rapid agreement, because in the past legislative period, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has found a rapid end because it has seen that no results will be achieved. I am particularly pleased about the reorganisation of Question Time, which is based on an initiative by the BZÖ, because one has simply seen, especially when a parliamentary debate or initiative is transmitted directly on television, that it is not particularly beneficial to the reputation of the House if one hour is so that very static questions are read and answers are given. In reality, we were always happy – I honestly say that – when no Question Time came to the call. But I think it was good to test this once and now also to anchor it in the Rules of Procedure. This new kind of Question Time, as I think, is really more fluid and lively and comes closer to the right of Members to interact – Mr Cap, you are smiling wisely and knowingly – than the kind of Question Time we have had before. So this is a really positive part of the reform of the Rules of Procedure. I am just afraid that the other points will be a little more problematic, including the reorganisation of the committee of inquiry. The issue of minority rights here in the House will also be the subject, as will procedural regulations, such as the reading of applications. That's always a thorn in my eye, because right where we are – thank God! – Now that you have several television broadcasts, live broadcasts, it is always terrible if you have to read a motion for a resolution or an amendment word for word here. So there is a wealth of things we are going to deal with. I hope that the constructive and result-oriented climate can be continued in this way. If this were to be transferred a little to other initiatives of the Federal Government, it would be highly recommended.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24343	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24364	Mr President. Yes, the first part is done once. But now, I think no one really needs to talk about a big piece of reform. We knew that these were the easy things we started with. I also think that the time for Question Time in particular deserves to be mentioned, because what happened before, where, at the latest after the second sentence of a broad call for the question, probably did not necessarily lead to an acceptance of this instrument for those who watched it. And it has already shown that it has become much more alive. In my opinion, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will be measured by the things that have been coming for years. And of course in the centre is the question of the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law, something that we have been discussing for a long time now. I am very excited whether there is also the willingness to talk about it in a reasonable manner, because it can not only be a matter of anchoring a minority right, but also of adapting the Rules of Procedure in such a way as to deal with this problem. In addition to this, there is a need for evidence that the loads of witnesses by minorities are possible. We can certainly talk about various ways in which we can shape the Rules of Procedure, as there are some experiences from the past few years. From our point of view, what is simply and simply not to happen is to introduce a minority right, but then finally to give the contributor no opportunity in the process to actually live this control instrument. There will certainly be exciting debates, but I am first of all good things that there is a reasonable opportunity. We will probably see relatively soon if there can be an implementation. But it will also be possible to measure the possibility of talking about a major reform of the Rules of Procedure. If that succeeds, it will probably be the greatest that has been accomplished in recent years and decades. You should build on this and try to really take a step forward here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24410	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 94 of the supplements. The present draft law may be amended in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C. 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be decided only on the presence of at least half of the Members and by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast. I therefore begin by stating the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. . The present draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at second reading. In accordance with Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of this draft law may take place at the earliest 24 hours after the conclusion of the second reading. [[19:32:34]] Vote on agenda item 14
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24459	We shall now proceed to the postponement of the vote on item 14 on the draft law in 137 of the Supplements. Hiezu is an additional or amendment tabled by Dr. Stumblingly, Krainer, colleagues and colleagues refer to the amendment of § 5 and the insertion of a new § 6a. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Krainer, Mr President. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign of acknowledgment. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Themessl, colleagues and colleagues on the abolition of the standard excise duty. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is largely rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Moser, ladies and gentlemen, on the real eco-premie for the purchase of a bicycle or a public annual map. [[Call the ÖVP:Rucksack!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is largely rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Moser, ladies and gentlemen, on No to the Gigaliner truck with over 25 meters of length and up to 60 tons. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is largely rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on eco-premie for old boilers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This request is largely rejected. [[19:35:35]] 16. Point report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 464/A by Mrs Ing. Hermann Schultes, Petra Bayr, colleagues on a Federal Law on Environmental Liability for the Prevention and Rehabilitation of Environmental Damage (B-UHG) (96 and 96 d.b.) 17. Point report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 169/A by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in the Federal Environmental Liability Act (B-UHG) (97 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24535	We now come to points 16 and 17 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hofer. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24562	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for the request I submitted was an e-mail from the Chamber of Commerce, which is known to you, where it has been declared that the Chamber of Commerce has enforced itself and the 'polluter pays' principle of environmental protection. This is not the case, or it will not be possible to break down the law. I therefore submitted the ministerial draft at the time because I was not satisfied with the government proposal. I am now very pleased that this 'polluter pays' principle is widely taken into account. That is why we will also vote in favour of this request today. I would also like to make another request concerning the economy and the environment; it is about the use of plastic sacks in Austria. We have already discussed this in Parliament several times. The problem cannot be underestimated. If we used bags made of biogenic plastics in Austria, we would also be very supportive of the local economy, the local agriculture. At the time, Minister Pröll has promised to work for this concern in the context of informal discussions. I now put great hopes in the new Minister for the Environment that this will actually happen. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Hofer, Themessl and other Members of Parliament. The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management is invited to develop, in cooperation with the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, a common way to gradually reduce the use of carrier bags made of non-reducible plastic while at the same time forcing the use of carrying bags made of biogenic plastics.”
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24612	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24683	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Schools. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24704	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Appreciate High House! Today, we can consult an own-initiative proposal that will save us some problems in Austria and, on the other hand, will provide a good solution in many areas in difficult situations. It is about implementing a European directive and adopting the Federal Environmental Liability Act today. We have very good legal bases in Austria, such as a water law law law, which regulates the handling of this goods to be protected at a very high level. We also have quite good handling for the soil, but we now know that the European Union has provided that regulations should also be made in countries which do not have such standards, such as damage cases, accidents, problems. We in Austria are implementing this directive, as you know, a little late and can present today a draft law that will certainly meet the demands of the environment, the demands of the people, the claims for civil participation as well as our legal obligations at a high level. Finally, I would like to thank the colleagues of the Socialist Group who have negotiated this with us. I should like to thank you very much. the staff of the Ministry of the Environment, who have sacrificed many hours to be available for all possible and impossible working hours. I should also like to thank all the Members who voted in favour of this law in committee, but in some detail have comments on how this must be done in the event of an opposition. I am pleased that the environmental organisations, as well as the environmental lawyer and the affected, will have the right in future to have a reorganisation carried out. With this, we have a new legal quality and, I can say, a round story and a good performance of this house. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24743	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lugar. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24765	Mr President. High house! The claim of this Environmental Liability Act is a welcome one. It is a question of asking companies that cause negligent environmental damage to the cashier – and not the taxpayer. That is, the claim of this law is a very welcome one, but unfortunately there are some weaknesses in this law, and I have to address it now. An EU directive has been implemented here, but it has once again been overshadowed in the environmental oversight of this directive, from my point of view, to the detriment of the economy. Where are the major weaknesses of this law now? – There is a burden of proof here, and the entrepreneur has to prove that he is innocent of contamination. That is, if, for example, an pollution occurs on a river and companies are located on that river, then these companies must prove that they are innocent of this pollution. So this is where the burden of proof is reversed. Secondly, the company must prove that it has taken sufficient measures to prevent environmental damage. In principle, this would not be the problem, only if one does so until excess, then it will be difficult to prove at last that it is impossible for accidents to happen and thus an accident could happen. Every technician knows that you can never completely rule out an accident. That is, to prove – and this is enshrined in the law here – that it is impossible for an incident to occur, or that you have done everything that is impossible to do, in practice will be very, very difficult. Furthermore, the law states: “a significant environmental damage. ” What is meant to be “a significant injury ”? Here the door and gate are opened for differences of interpretation and thus for the discretion of the authorities. One thing I have to do very well. There are many companies that use river water to cool their production sites. Then the water is removed, it is cooled, and then the water is reintroduced. It won't change the water. The only thing that happens: it gets warmed up, okay, because it's cooled. If this cooling water were started with an official permit and there would be a reduction of the fish stock further down the river, then this would already be a significant impairment. That is, we are here in the situation that, although there is a genuine approval from the authority, there is nevertheless a condemnation of the entrepreneur. ==References== In my view, this is not feasible in a modern state that there is no legal certainty in this case. And if there is already an official approval, then the authority must be held responsible, but not the entrepreneur! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We must not, therefore, go ahead and obey this law to the EU and pour out the child with the bath. We must not endanger our economic location. Because one thing is also quite certain: Not every blade of grass is worth protecting.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24822	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24843	Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation and by no means the over-fulfilment of this EU directive on liability for major environmental damage was indeed a serious birth. I would also like to thank all birth workers, midwives and midwives who have helped to see the light of the world. [[Congratulations to Members Hornek and Ing. Schultes]] I also believe that it is a very useful solution in the sense of the environment, also in the sense of the federal states, which also, for example, have to take over biodiversity damage, in national law, and also in the sense of taxpayers. The result can be seen. I am very glad, Mr Lugar, that the polluter principle remains clear that this will not be undermined. We have a 120-year tradition in the question of the one who causes an environmental damage to the recovery of the damage – and not the taxpayer. The profit also belongs to the person who caused the damage, and rarely to the taxpayer. So, in this way, this regulation is a very sensible consequence and it will help to ensure that no other legislation on matter of matter is undermined in the environmental field and that this polluter principle is eroded there, which is very important. These rules concerning the sublimeness, where we in § 4 para. 1 to define the significant environmental damage in the medium of water – and this was particularly the case in the debate – I think, quite clearly, because in the last half of the sentence we clearly state that all the damage that has been approved in the context of authorisation procedures or in procedural concentrations, where the possible impact of the project has been taken into account in administrative assessments. I therefore think that we have a very clear rule that damage to the environment that has been granted cannot, of course, be taken in retrospect, but now you pay, where it was clear, but in the case of damage beyond the authorisation, very well, there is again the principle of 'polluter pays'. I believe it is a success that there are no liability exceptions to the question of normal operation and the risk of development. That was one of the very, very big cracks. I think it is a success that there is a party position for environmental NGOs and the environmental lawyers of the federal states as well as for directly affected persons. I think it is a success that liability not only becomes a hit in the course of a professional activity, as described in Annex 1, but also in the event of a person having the license or the authorisation for a certain product. This may well help us a lot if there are any genetic engineering damage in the field of genetic engineering, because it is not only the damage to the liability of genetic engineering. I would like to ask the Commission if it is going to be able to do so, and if it is possible to do so, it will be possible to implement these CMOs, for example, but also the companies which have the licenses for these CMOs. I think that's a really good story. I am convinced that we all hope together that this law, which we decide today, will be applied as rarely as possible. We all hope that the Republic of Austria will, as far as possible, be completely spared from environmental damage in this dimension as this law regulates it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24895	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Brunner. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24916	Mr President. Minister! High house! The implementation of the Environmental Liability Directive was already urgently necessary and has been overdue since April 2007. That is why we see it as necessary that something has now been done, and we also see that as a matter of principle positive. However, the process, as it has now happened, has already surprised me a little, because it has been a few years now, and the opposition has been faced with this law only a few days before the Environment Committee, which has naturally made the assessment of the substance difficult. All the more important was the education of experts and experts we have proposed to Greens in order to ensure that this law's content assessment is actually carried out in this short term. We see positive approaches in this law. I mean, it's perfectly clear that if someone takes profits from an undertaking, he must also take the risk and not be able to turn this risk on taxpayers. However, we actually see problems in the directive itself, because the directive does not cover all environmental damage. That is why this legislative proposal is not satisfactory for us, because we think that if we perhaps have the right to once again want to become an environmental model country, then we can do more here than just implement the directive. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The problem is that, for example, air as an environmental protection product is not at all covered by the fact that the soil itself is not covered, but only practically as a production factor for food. And then, in fact, there is only a damage within the meaning of the law, even if a health damage occurs. I have here a newspaper article about pumpkin farmers from the South of Burgenland, who fear that their production is at risk from the waste burning plant planned there. It is precisely this law that would not cover damage to these farmers. It is positive for us that the excuse for the officially approved operation and for the development risk has fallen. However, there is still the excuse for the officially approved operation in the event of water damage inside. Unfortunately, this also means the exclusion of information obligations and rehabilitation obligations. So this excuse is still existing and we see critical. We also see critically that solidarity and enforcement rights on parent companies have fallen, for example, as well as the cover provision of businesses, so that they can actually be held liable for the damage that has occurred. To say something positive again: The environmental complaint for those affected has been improved, thus facilitating access to rehabilitation procedures. However, if you look at this more closely again, you can see that this will probably become a little more difficult in practice with the rights that NGOs can claim. Only health damage, property damage, can be claimed and this is likely to be difficult in practice by NGOs in a specific case to argue why a right is claimed. In contrast to the economy, NGOs do not have the opportunity to go to the administrative court. The cost of such a procedure must also be borne by the NGOs themselves, and that is if opinions need to be and should not be taken into account. So de facto will then remain in practice that many NGOs cannot assert these rights or only if they can afford to do so. Citizens' initiatives are not mentioned in this law at all. Summary: We see positive approaches. The law, however, contributes to the implementation of the Directive. A valid environmental liability law we Greens imagine differently.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e24980	Next speaker: Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25002	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time, thank you for the positive word reports on the Federal Environmental Liability Act. If one of the key criticisms is that it has been speeded up, I would like to take this into account for the Members who negotiated it, because the implementation of the EU Environment Liability Directive should have been implemented, as mentioned. In this respect, it is a great step forward that has succeeded in presenting an excellent law here in a very efficient time. It has also been debated in the Committee on this matter. The proverbial Gordian knot has been solved because, of course, there is a huge field of tension between the interests of the environment on the one hand and the interest of the economy on the other with liability issues and, and, on the other. That's not a simple matter. And now, where the law is here, it can already be said that there is a clear advantage for the environment, that it is especially good for taxpayers and that there is also security for the economy. Rules were created to avoid and reorganise significant environmental damage to water and soil. Mrs Brunner, you criticise the repeated lack of air. – The air is not the subject of the EU Environment Liability Directive either, so it cannot be contained in it. Therefore, criticism must be addressed to the EU. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Because you represent it as if it had not been done properly. It includes the materials contained in the Directive. The core idea here is clearly the 'polluter pays' principle and sustainable development: The damage caused by environmental damage is liable not only for the cost of rehabilitation of this environmental damage, but also for the costs of public administration. So he'll have to pay for all the costs he's caused. That's good for the taxpayer and it's right. In return, however, there is also security for companies that, if they comply with all requirements, have no additional costs to expect. So I mean, that's in mutual interest. The economy has also been involved in these negotiations, has been able to get involved and has finally also said that this is a law that is acceptable and with which you can live. It is also important that the BH, the district administration authority, has a uniform competence here. This makes sense because the bra on site is the one that best knows the danger and is able to assess it and can also contribute to the renovation with the necessary expertise, thus avoiding incompatible rehabilitation arrangements. The whole thing is supposed to go over the stage rationally. I would like to turn around the criticism that the citizens are missing in their right hand. On the contrary: The environmental complaint has been introduced. It enables the verifiability of these administrative decisions, and affected persons, NGOs, the environmental lawyer, can call on the authority to reorganise environmental damage – i.e., a new quality of civil participation, I say. In this way, it is ensured that those concerned can speak and can also speak in the event of such damage. This Federal Environmental Liability Act is also the framework for further implementation steps to be taken in the federal states. I would like to thank the negotiators, at the head of the Environment Council of the National Council of Schools and Mrs. National Council of Bayr. Thank you very much. Your comparison with the midwives is very nice. If I introduce the National Council to Schultes as a midwife – if it serves the matter, it should be so. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] An original thought, at least for everyone. The description is very nice, but expresses a serious thing. Thank you for that. I would also like to thank the social partners who have been very involved here, and also the staff of my home, the Ministry of Life, for bringing in their expertise. I am pleased that it has succeeded in implementing this matter very constructively, in keeping with the EU directive, in the hope that we will escape the threat of criminal payments, so that they can be dealt with. You know, it is a procedure in progress because the directive has not been implemented in time. In any event, I think it is an important step towards ensuring environmental protection in Austria, and I think that we will have uniform instruments for safety against environmental damage across Europe, and for the resolution and rehabilitation of environmental damage. So in this sense, thank you again to everyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25072	The next item is the report by Mr Radler. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25093	Mr President. Federal Minister! Many midwives! The child's in the world. Congratulations. After years of discussion, it has now succeeded in bringing a federal environmental liability law into force and thereby also in strengthening the 'polluter pays' principle, which was already planned and enshrined. That's nice. However, it is also gratifying that the NGOs – which has been stressed several times – also have a right of participation in the procedures, in the form of environmental complaints, and that the measures taken must also be delivered in a reasonable manner. These are those measures that concern businesses, industrial enterprises, but also measures in the field of dangerous goods, to power plants, where, in the event of damage, these measures – a catalogue of measures – are then put in place. I would perhaps like to say a word on Mrs Lichtenecker's comments in this regard; she is not here now. With regard to the debate on economic recovery, Dr. Lichtenecker called for more measures and initiatives towards renewable energy to be put in place here in order to create many jobs. At the same time, the Industrial Union has today presented a eight-point action plan or action plan, which also concerns renewable energy in the form of hydropower, namely to implement faster and simplified procedures. I would be pleased if the Greens would be able to agree to this and, in future, perhaps the overall plan of the Federal Minister for Renewable Energy, which he will now work on, could be approved. Only this action plan, which is to be read, would create around 6,000 jobs and new jobs. If we don't talk about it, let's do it, and please bring yourself in positively!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25133	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25154	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What lasts for a long time will finally be good: That would be the right working title for me for the script on the Federal Environment Liability Act. Firstly, it is a good and important matter, and that is why our group will also agree to this federal law. We can live with it from the FPÖ. It is a suitable solution in the event of an occasion. It took a long time for this law to come into effect. Actually, already in 2007 – you have, in part, Mr. Minister – this EU directive should have been implemented in national law. The fact that this is not the case is clearly a failure of the then Minister for the Environment Pröll, who simply could not afford to make such a contract. Nevertheless, I have to say: The current B-UHG does not go back to the work of the government, but the EU you both so loved has made a fire under the chair, in the form of a infringement procedure, and in order to avoid any damage payments, we had to deal with this bill as quickly as possible in the Committee on the Environment. I would also like to move a little side-by-side to Mr Cap, but he seems to have the driving force, because he is not too often here in the hall. But I hope you'll do this to him. He was the one who, in his last interviews, repeatedly praised constructive cooperation, strengthening minority rights and also involving the opposition parties in legislative government work. But how, as he may explain to me, is it possible that my colleague Hofer's equal request has been rejected by the SPÖ in the Environment Committee? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to conclude by quoting Univ.-Prof. Raschauer, one of the experts in the Environment Committee. He felt that this law was not an environmental milestone, but it was a viable solution on the occasion. He hopes that this event will not be given in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25202	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25224	Mr President. Mr Minister, I would very much like to follow your words with which you have ended your remarks. You have thanked the social partners, and I would also like to say at this point that I am very glad that, finally and finally, there has been hard negotiations, there has been an understanding on the part of the economic representatives that there can be no comprehensive exemption from liability and that it is necessary that the 'polluter pays' principle is also included in the law. The discussion has overall shown that this is a difficult matter. So the arguments of the Greens were that this is too little for the environment. No, of course it was to be expected! This has already been heard in the committee. And the deputy from BZÖ, Ing. Lugar, it was too little for the economy. With us from the SPÖ, the views are quite clear: On the one hand, we are in favour of protecting the environment and, on the other, we are in favour of making it possible for businesses to operate. We have government responsibility, and I think we're doing well. Mr Deputies Ing. I would like to say to Lugar, who said that the authorities should be held responsible: For this, there is the official liability law. And to add that, as he meant, if a right is there, it's enough to make a small comparison: A car driver who causes a sheet metal damage can't say either: I have a steering authority, I have an approval, so I'm not liable! It is certainly good that the normal operation is not included. This would mean that the company would not be liable for significant damage caused by it. We are, as I said, for society as a whole. This includes the environment, which includes the protection of human beings, and this includes farms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25264	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. I would also like to speak for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25285	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. This story is not that simple. Mr Federal Minister, you said that this law would have come about at an efficient time. Well, you're not so long ministers, but already in June 2007, there was this government template. If I can count correctly, it's almost a year and a half. It's a long time, you can believe it. It's really a long time you've had for it. They are the same groups in the government, nothing has changed, and you are known to be from the same party as your predecessor Josef Pröll. But, well, the law is in place now. Our criticism has already been communicated, so I would like to focus my arguments on the essential points. On the one hand, NGOs have not been involved in such a way that we can assume that they are really serious and can take advantage of the legal path, just like citizens' initiatives. - That's a central point. And that the soil is not covered as an environmental asset, Mr. Federal Minister, is more than one problem. I am referring only to the example of “technologically modified organisms”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayr.]] It is good that these are mentioned, Mrs Bayr, and it is also good that the licensors could have a liability here in the case of the case, but the damage to the environment – and there is the central element where the damage can happen, namely in the context of soil fertility, soil health and the same in the context of biodiversity – has not been used here as a damage case. As an Austrian representative, we as Austrian legislators could very well go beyond the EU framework directive. It would have been very likely to regulate the areas of air and soil. University professor Raschauer has rightly said that we will certainly discuss these questions in the future and that there will still be novels. That is why we now reject this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25334	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. I would also like to speak for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25355	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We implement an EU directive with this Federal Environmental Liability Act. In this context, I would like to say that we in Austria have already had sufficient regulations in this area. At national and federal level, for example, we have the Water Law Act, which has so far provided for a corresponding regulation in the event of damage. From an entrepreneurial and economic point of view, it is certainly important that this Federal Environmental Liability Act continues to lay down the 'polluter pays' principle. We have no objection. However, from the point of view of the economy, one problem is already: The question of indebtedness is not raised. Thus, an entrepreneur can be held liable without liability. Therefore, I think that every entrepreneur, as before, should be very careful about the environment, but should also make an appropriate liability insurance in order to cover any damage. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25382	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler. I would also like to speak for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25404	Mr President. Dear Minister! High house! The Directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 21 December 1990 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes, and on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and It was therefore essential to create legal certainty for our businesses in particular and to allow for the calculation of liability. This is not the case. Lung. I would also like to thank the negotiators, the environmental spokespersons of the coalition parties, the Minister and all those involved in the clubs and in the house. It was particularly important for the many small and medium-sized enterprises that it was not possible to achieve a planned cover and risk prevention, which the EU Directive has not already provided for, and that the money that should have been put in the reserve could be used at a time like this for the protection of jobs and for the creation of new jobs. Overall, it can be said that the present draft has a reasonable, balanced legislative proposal. I can now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to say, since a colleague from the Green Group from any magazine quoted anyone with the words 'More speed against the crisis' and one and a half hours ago a colleague, in turn from the Green Group, said how fast the EIA procedures are being carried out, namely in 13 months in the first instance and in 9 months in the second instance: I think they don't know what's going on outside the economic world. Unfortunately, it is an incredible dynamic. If, now, a company or the public hand would say that we prefer an investment, we want to take money to do so, and this investment would be subject to an EIA duty and the EIA procedure would take 13 months in the first instance and 9 months in the second instance – on average, it would be about two years, exactly 22 months – then the earliest would be effective in two years. That is why I would like to join with Mr Rädler's opinion that we should simplify, detonate the EIA procedures, because we now have to invest, create jobs and secure jobs. That's important! Of course, we should not forget the environment completely, but the EIA procedure requires a decommissioning process. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25500	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. As the latter, Mr Hörl spoke. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25524	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr President, I am surprised that you are in favour of the self-employed motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Allow Hofer and Themessl on the reduction of carrier bags with non-reducible plastic at this item on the agenda. I'm very surprised. I think it would have to be discussed at the next item on the agenda. Mr Federal Minister, I congratulate you, because in your short term you have done two epochal or great throws: On the one hand, you have succeeded in persuading the vast majority of the European Union from the ban on genetic engineering, and on the other hand, with this Federal Environmental Liability Act you have also succeeded in a large throw. That's why we're proud of you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This Environmental Liability Directive should have been implemented long ago. That is why we are in a infringement procedure. I emphasize: From the point of view of the economy, we have no great pleasure with it, but we can now say, because good negotiations have been made, that this work is tolerable. I would like to thank all those who have worked on it. I can say: It is a good compromise from economic and environmental interests. It is important for the legal certainty of the economy that water-approved effects have been separated from the concept of significant water damage and are therefore not challenged by liability law. In this way, it is not possible to construct any liability in retrospect for establishments that work properly and in conformity with approval. For tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, it is gratifying that, with this proposal for an initiative, the legislator is now relinquishing the possibility of requiring financial coverage or risk prevention from all potential causers without the need for EU legislation. In the form now in place, the B-UHG is most likely to lead to responsibility for environmental damage, without insuring and taxing the legally produced plants. Hopefully, this law will rarely be applied. However, it is a further contribution to the protection of the environment. But our concerns in these difficult times must be: Jobs, jobs, jobs! That is why we also need to take into account the location costs. Costs of a financial and administrative nature should be reduced, but should not be further invented. I would like to thank everyone – including the liberals – who went along here, and all those who have worked on it, in particular the two colleagues Bayr and Schultes, but also the employees of the Chamber of Commerce, who have created a law which is tolerable here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25577	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the bill concerning the Federal Environmental Liability Act in 96 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. Schultes, Bayr, colleagues who refer to Sections 4 and 9. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. Schultes, Bayr, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign of acknowledgment. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Hofer, ladies and gentlemen, on the successive reduction in the use of non-reducible plastic carrier bags. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we are voting on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 97 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[20:17:28]] 18. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (52 e.g._Other Organiser Basel Convention on the control of transboundary shipments of hazardous waste and their disposal; Decisions of Contracting Parties VI/35 and VII/19 on the modification or adaptation of the waste lists contained in Annexes VIII and IX (98 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25668	We shall now proceed to item 18 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Brunner. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25695	Mr President. Minister! High house! The Basel Convention was concluded to minimise cross-border transport and the movement of hazardous waste. In order to ensure environmentally sound waste management, it is necessary to control cross-border transport. These transboundary transports must also be notified, and the Aarhus Convention requires that the population be informed of waste imports and waste exports. At this point I must draw attention again to a request from my colleague, Mr Lichtenecker, in which we have asked about waste imports and exports, also in and from the various federal states in Austria, where the data were not provided to us accordingly. However, these data are necessary in order to be able to carry out appropriate waste management and planning in Austria. We are currently experiencing a wild increase in waste combustion plants. When all projects are implemented, we have twice as many capacities as waste. This government template actually reinforces this development, because this government template provides that more types of waste are transferred from the list of hazardous wastes to the list of non-hazardous wastes, and this, of course, facilitates waste imports for more waste types and is actually contrary to the principle of proximity. Unfortunately, with this government template, you cannot live up to the principle of disposal autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25735	The next item is the speech by Mr Hornek. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25756	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Basel Convention regulates international shipments of hazardous waste and a limited number of non-hazardous waste. The control of the shipment of waste can only be effective in the international equation. The Basler Convention provides the legal basis for this. Austria is actively striving at Community level and in the international context for as clear and environmentally friendly rules as possible in the shipment of waste. Annexes VIII and IX – Annex VIII concerning dangerous Annex IX to non-hazardous substances – the Basel Convention represents an important step towards a global uniform interpretation of the Convention. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has contributed to the development of these substances through very concrete proposals. It is now possible to implement amendments within the European Union for the first time and, if they prove themselves, to submit them under the Basel Convention of the International Community. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Basel Convention is thus another environmental mosaic for the benefit of our environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25793	Next speaker: Mr Steier. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25815	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We advise, as my previous speakers have said, on an adaptation to the Basler Convention, on changes and adaptations to waste lists, which now include old cars, chrome scrap, carpet floors and other wastes. We therefore regulate, ladies and gentlemen, cross-border transport of hazardous waste and its environmentally sound disposal as close as possible to the point of origin. Control and minimisation of transboundary shipments of hazardous waste are the objectives of the Convention, which was concluded in 1989. In particular, it concerns the protection of developing countries from the import of waste from industrialized countries. Ladies and gentlemen, even though the number of illegal waste exports has been greatly reduced by the Basel Convention, due to the size of the goods transported internationally, it is impossible to fully monitor borders. The fact is that most of the illegal waste exports to developing countries, such as Africa and Asia, do not have capacity, and do not have health-friendly waste disposal technologies for the treatment of such waste. The images of people who unprotectedly dismember these highly toxic technical components in backyards are well known. Ladies and gentlemen! In the fight against illegal waste transport, therefore, a lot of tasks still remain to be done, tag checks to consistently enforce the export ban on hazardous waste. But even each one of us and each one of us can contribute by living more resource-efficiently, that is, keeping our personal ecological footprint as consumers in a reasonable framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25860	The next item is the speech by Mr Neubauer. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25881	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The problem for citizens, for local politicians, is often that new laws fail to provide information, that laws often also show a lack of transparency, and that this is a time and again an uncertainty of some citizens. This goes so far that laws still prevent local politicians from getting information about the origin and accompanying circumstances of an incident, for example in Linz at the Voest or at the chemical works. We therefore call for greater transparency and information to be given to cross-border shipments of hazardous waste and disposal, and therefore invite you to join our motion for a resolution. I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, follow our request! The mayors and councillors of Austria will thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25931	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e25985	The next item is the speech by Mrs Schenk. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26006	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Without the Basel Convention, our environment would probably be worse. The sense of the Basler Convention, for Austria on 12 October. A global waste management system has entered into force on April 23, 1993. Annex VIII to the Convention mentions the waste which is considered hazardous and is therefore subject to an export ban, in Annex IX, the waste which is considered non-hazardous and is not subject to an export ban. More than 170 countries have already acceded to this agreement. Worth mentioning and amazing is: Although the USA has signed the Basler Agreement, the Convention has never ratified and implemented it. This means that the United States of America is the only industrial country that has rejected the ratification of the Poison Waste Convention. At the same time, the USA is one of the largest electronics scrap producers in the world. Perhaps the new President Barack Obama, who has already quoted a great deal today, is not going to hurt this failure. Parallel to Basler A system for the notification, identification and control of transboundary shipments of waste for recovery has been established for the OECD States by the relevant Council Decision. Both regulations have been implemented by the EU by means of a transfer regulation in directly applicable law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we all have an environment, and we should deal with it carefully and responsibly. That is why we voted in committee and will be voting in this House today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26046	The next item is Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26067	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! As I have heard and know from my previous speakers, the Basel Convention on the Control and Minimization of Transboundary Movement of Dangerous Waste and its Disposal has been concluded, with particular emphasis on minimization, because not all European countries are dealing with harmful waste as carefully as we do in Austria. Even more important than considering the careful disposal of waste is for me the reduction or prevention of this. The objective of all of us must be the conservation of resources and energy reserves and the determination of waste production. In my opinion, each country is responsible for the shipment of its waste itself. This means that the disposal has to be done where the waste is produced and not the so-called Floriani principle is applied. With the Basel Convention and with various corrections, the beginning of a rethinking in environmental and waste policy has now been made. Of course, it is necessary to work on further improvements and to strengthen awareness of waste prevention across all borders. At the same time, I believe that economic support for the so-called East states should also be made dependent on environmental measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26104	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 point 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on the introduction of a reporting obligation in the event of storage or further processing of hazardous waste. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is rejected by a majority. [[20:31:53]] 19. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (36 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Climate and Energy Fund Act (KLI.EN-FondsG) (99 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26168	We're entering the 19th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Brunner. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26195	Mr President. Minister! High house! The Climate and Energy Fund was thought of as a solution to the climate fog that we have in Austria. We are 11 percent above the base year 1990 for greenhouse gas emissions and will unfortunately not be able to achieve our Kyoto targets. Therefore, from the Greens' point of view, it is of course positive and necessary to put additional resources into climate protection so that we can also implement appropriate projects and more projects here. The government programme set out the need to evaluate the structure of this fund – this assessment is shared – so that the funds used in the Fund are used more efficiently and ultimately more climate change measures can be implemented. However, the government proposal, as it is now before us, seems to me to be a quick shot, because the results of this evaluation are somehow not available or have not been made known to us. This, I think, has unfortunately already been given a great opportunity to improve the structures of the funds, to make more effective use of resources for the strengthening of the profile and thus also for targeted climate protection. The Fund still has no own funding guidelines and has no clear profile. And from my point of view, there is already a great danger that the Climate and Energy Fund will get into a pitfall here and simply promote anywhere where other funding programmes do not grasp. This can probably not be targeted climate protection. The financial disbursement of the Fund is uncertain. It was now about whether to co-finance the rehabilitation check or other measures. And this uncertainty means that, unfortunately, there are no additional resources going into climate protection, but simply other measures that can not be financed anywhere else. We would consider it necessary that the Fund's profile should be tightened, that it should be an efficient overall approach, which is also included in other environmental promotion programmes, in order to actually use the resources we have at our disposal effectively and finally to move forward in climate protection in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26240	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Schools. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26262	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear High House! If we are reforming the rules of the Climate and Energy Funds today, this is a clear implementation of the experiences of the last two years. In itself, it has succeeded in working constructively with this fund, in creating important projects – projects that citizens have also greatly appreciated, such as the promotion of pellets boilers or the promotion of photovoltaics. We all know that the citizens wanted to use much more than money was available. However, the Climate and Energy Fund has also given its activities very much in the field of research, including on the issue of environmentally friendly mobility. We know that the decision-making processes were difficult, as we know that the adoption of the directives took some time, and we also know that not all the personalities who had to work with them really cooperated optimally. Personally, then: I'm not sorry about the Wabl. In any case: In the new formation, we will be slimmer in the climate and energy funds and will make faster decisions. I hope that the financial dispensation is sufficient. We also know that in the near future we can expect thermal insulation and energy efficiency-enhancing measures to be in place. I would be pleased if, for example, the Climate and Energy Fund would also support the market penetration of biogenic fibres for thermal insulation or the corresponding gas stations to bring bioethanol into the market. Of course, we also expect increasing support for photovoltaics and research on all aspects of energy supply. We can't think of anything. We know that the 34 percent target is a very high obstacle and we have to do everything we can to make every effort to achieve it. We know that 34 percent means that we expect that in 2020 we will still be two-thirds dependent on fossil energy sources and we will have to import them all. So, no rosy views! That is why it is all the more important that we use all the resources to achieve or perhaps exceed the 34 percent target, because we want to keep value creation in Austria and achieve energy autarchy. Thank you for your cooperation in this law. We hope that it will help the Climate and Energy Fund to carry out its tasks in the interests of all.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26308	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26329	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This novel – which has already been mentioned – serves to improve efficiency and organisational reform, as provided for in the government programme. One advantage is that the decision-making structure is being streamlined and that approvals are speeded up. The Minister of Finance will also have to give his approval before the directives are adopted. For me, as a housing law politician, it is also particularly crucial and important how the question of financing additional thermal rehabilitation will be developed in the future. The Federal Government has pledged €100 million for thermal renovation with the economic package. Now it is important that the Minister of Finance will decide that there will be fresh money and that these funds will not be taken from the existing fund. In future, the KLI.EN Fund will invest more money in researching efficiency measures. In the residential area there are some fields that require intensive research. This will be waged for users, the climate objective and the conservation of the environment. Modernisation is necessary, I therefore ask for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26362	The next item is Mrs Gartelgruber. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26383	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! As my previous speakers have said several times: The present government programme provides for efficiency improvements for the Federal Government's climate and energy funds. This also includes restructuring of the fund institutions and the new definition of their tasks. In principle, we can agree to the withdrawal of the mandatory appointment of two managing directors. At the same time, however, it should be noted that the Climate and Energy Fund was set up in the National Council in 2007 to assist the Federal Government in the implementation of the Austrian climate targets. The aim of the Fund is to achieve sustainable energy supply and reduce greenhouse gases. In the middle of last year, €8 million was made available by the Climate and Energy Funds as part of the Photovoltaic Funding Action. These were exhausted within a short period of time, since 2 400 applications for this support were received only during the first few hours. There is an increasing demand for photovoltaic systems in Austria. Not least, the gas crisis has shown the importance of the independence of Austrian energy needs from abroad. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26443	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26511	The next item is the speech by Mr Huber. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26532	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The BZÖ agrees with this request. This fund makes sense. We are a constructive opposition. [[Call the SPÖ:Since when?]] Since time immemorial. So we agree. [[Abg. Grosz: It won't take long!]] But this fund needs to address new perspectives and strategies in order to increase renewable energy and energy efficiency. In view of the current economic crisis, fresh money has to be taken into account. The donation of this fund is a major concern, we need to talk about it. This fund belongs to much higher education. There is a need for considerable investment in thermal renovation, photovoltaics and solar energy in order to exploit the still sleeping potential in Austria. We must strengthen changes in this direction that benefit the Austrian economy and the environmental balance. This is also a very important step towards the labour market. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We already have thousands of jobs in solar energy and even in renewable energy in Austria. We must ensure that thousands more are implemented immediately. All companies – whether bosses of industrial companies in the heat, heating industry or small installers – are well informed about this. Everyone should benefit from it so that the fund can be used optimally. But that is again a question of teaching, but we will do so. Only in this way can we get the big energy price fluctuations under control. We need modernisation, so we can also significantly slow down energy consumption. Households, including farms, all should benefit from this. And this alone reduces the dependence on oil and gas imports. This fund is just a small step, but it goes in the right direction. The BZÖ will work to ensure that no wrong direction is taken. But this also poses a great danger of us falling back into the pro-pore economy. We will also check that the two ministries do not occupy the managing directors in proportion, but that, depending on the performance, the best heads come to the train. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Not for nothing, Dr. Jörg Haider, in years of work, has addressed and combats the pro-porz. As you can see, he could reach a lot. The BZÖ will control and will certainly not tire of fighting pro-pore occupations.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26589	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26612	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today's amendment implements part of the government programme, namely the increase in efficiency in the structures and decision-making processes of the Climate and Energy Fund. There is a new fund structure and the role of the Expert Advisory Council is also to be shared. In the future, only two ministries will be represented in the KLI.EN Fund Presidency, so it will be reduced; in addition to the Ministry of Life, the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology is also represented. The "New Presidium" thus corresponds to the actual distribution of competence in the Federal Government, namely, the KLI.EN Fund supports climate-related research projects, on the other hand climate-related market penetration measures. So everything that's supposed to be for climate protection. The advantage is the following: The slimmer organisation provides more efficient decision-making structures, reduces administrative burden and thus facilitates decision-making. In any case, there is also a new job in the expert advisory board. In future, the expert advisory board of the KLI.EN Fund will be made up of four scientists, but will not deal with every funding case. For example, some 17 000 funding cases were handled in 2008. This is an enormous effort if the expert advisory board is always involved. In the future, the expert advisory board will only be involved in strategic decisions or difficult decisions, so that there is an increase in efficiency, which will also ensure a lower administrative burden. The tasks of the management of the Climate and Energy Fund are no longer exemplaryly listed in the law, but are contained in the Rules of Procedure of the KLI.EN Fund, which has the effect that, in the event of a change in tasks, one can do this more quickly and efficiently. In any event, the decision-making of the strategic planning document of the guidelines of the annual programme will only require more approval of the Federal Minister for Finance, which is also an efficiency boost. Let me briefly tell you some information about the success of the KLI.EN Fund. More than 13 000 grant commitments were issued in 2007/2008. There were certainly special highlights that 11 800 wood heating promotions were carried out and more than 800 photovoltaic funding commitments were made for private households. Most of the KLI.EN funds allocated, i.e. € 55 million and 32 percent respectively, have been available for over 200 research projects. One important priority was mobility, support for climate-related mobility, in the field of public transport. There, some €22 million was invested in 32 projects. And finally it will be that, as it has already been done here, the Minister for Economic Affairs and I will draw up a plan for the implementation of renewable energy in Austria. Of course, the funding regimes, as well as the KLI.EN Fund, are being voted on in order simply to maintain an efficient funding structure and to implement the very ambitious target of 34 percent renewable energy in Austria. This goal will be subordinated to everything. In this sense, I would like to thank you for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26658	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26682	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In times like these, in which we are all thinking about where we are targeting funding, it is, I believe, a command of the hour that we are talking about a new orientation of the climate and energy funds and that we are bringing about a better effectiveness and effectiveness of this fund. Structural optimization in the decision-making bodies is essential so that funding can also reach the promoters, and, above all, that is a special concern to me, quickly arrive. The andrang of local researchers is large in terms of the climate fund, and we know very well that research promotion and employment are directly related. At present about 180 000 people are working in the environmental technology sector, and this is certainly still expandable. However, the companies operating in this sector also belong to strengthened ones, which is quite clear. If money does not unnecessarily suffocate into bureaucratic structures, then, of course, budget resources remain free for special actions, such as recently for the promotion of photovoltaics, and there, I believe, is also potential in the future. As I have heard, there is a request from the FPÖ that specific measures should already be put in place, but I believe that we should first wait for how much resources are available so that we can go out in order to make effective photovoltaic promotion by facing the promoters with ready-made concepts. That is why we cannot vote in favour of this request at the moment. Nevertheless, in the use of solar power I see the great future. At present, all actors are looking to Brussels, where the new eco electricity law is for approval. And also with regard to this issue, the ability of the Climate and Energy Fund to act is very much needed, because here, too, with regard to the Eco electricity Act, it will, I believe, be necessary to put important complementary measures and impulses. I think this government template is certainly a sensible thing and I hope you will agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26722	The next speaker is Mr Schopf. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26743	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When almost two years ago the foundation of this fund was decided here in Parliament, there were strong debates. Today, I believe, we can say together that the establishment of this Fund for the Environment was a very important and correct step. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, this fund is very important in environmental policy, because it pursues very important objectives. I think many of them have already been reached. Finally, as the major objectives of this fund, we have also formulated legally binding, that security of supply is increased, that fossil energy imports are reduced, that we are trying to expand the technology in the environmental field, that we are trying last but not least – and this is a very important point – to increase the use of renewable energy sources in our Republic. It is also important to mention that we should try not only to be a contributor at European level, but, as I think, our goal must be that we are a pioneer in environmental technology at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, especially in times like this, it is important to stress that new environmental technologies ultimately mean job security, but also the creation of new jobs. The reading of various European studies shows that there is the possibility of creating a million jobs in Europe alone by 2020! That is why this fund is of the utmost importance and it is important that it is properly taught. Then we will surely be successful in this area too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26783	As the last speaker in this debate, Mr Stauber has been mentioned for the time being. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26804	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The law on climate and energy funds to be adopted today, which is essentially an organisational structural reform, represents an important step towards a more efficient environmental policy instrument. If you know that this KLI.EN fund supported some 200 projects in the field of research and development alone in 2008, you can imagine the importance of the funds in the field of innovation capacity in the environmental field and how important it will be for future climate and energy technology development in Austria. It is therefore all the more incomprehensible to me that, for obvious opportunistic reasons, the Greens are constantly opposed to welcome initiatives by the Federal Government in the environmental field. Even if a government template, as this KLI.EN Fund Act in the Committee was specifically regarded by Mr Brunner as very positive, the Greens are looking for reasons in order not to agree to the proposal. We all know that this is not the optimal solution yet, but it is an important step in the right direction, because the current novelle will increase the efficiency of the Climate and Energy Fund and strengthen and streamline the guidelines and the activity profile, especially because of the fact that, for example, the mandatory appointment of two managing directors is missing or that only two ministers will belong to the Fund Bureau instead of four ministers. It is also clear that this reduced Bureau has to adopt the Strategic Planning Document, the Directives and the annual programme. As very important for faster funding, it will also be apparent that provision no longer provides for mandatory consultation of the Council of Experts in support programmes. In this way, this climate fund will sharpen its profile, and this will help to make climate and environmental policy even more efficient. We therefore invite all parties to give their consent to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26844	No one is reporting on this. So I close the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 99 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Hofer, Gartelgruber and other Members of Parliament on support for photovoltaics within the framework of the Climate Fund. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[20:58:31]] 20. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 504/A(E) by Mr Fritz Grillitsch, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Kurt Gaßner, Harald Jannach, Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, Gerhard Huber, colleagues on the maintenance of the Austrian genetic engineering bans (150 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26935	We're entering the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — The debate is closed. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e26962	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to thank you very much for this five-party proposal, which represents the Austrian position very well. We want and wanted to give our Federal Minister back cover for his difficult negotiations at the European Environment Council, and it has been shown that a common procedure by Parliament here in the High House and a enforceable minister can do much to move, so I should like to congratulate the Federal Minister very warmly. There will be few Federal Ministers who can drive home such a great success in such a short time! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is still a great deal of conviction in the European Union. We know too little about the effects of the GMOs, and for me some essential points have not yet been answered. First: There are no long-term studies that can demonstrate the impact of GMOs. In my opinion, this also involves the partially incomprehensible activities of the European Food Safety Authority. Secondly, There are also no European uniform rules of liability and co-existence. In this context, I am glad that a first step has been taken with regard to liability with the Environmental Liability Act today, because it must not be so that in the end the farmers are left because of a huge group's misbehavior. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Thirdly, I do not want our farmers to become dependent on large corporations, for example in the field of seeds or plant protection products. As a farmer, I would like to know in future the diversity of Austrian agriculture. What we can see, however, is that it is possible to co-form and enforce our interests in Europe. Although we are a small country, we can show thematic leadership, namely, if we agree, as on this point, that there is a Europe of the regions. Self-determination is important here, and we should make it clear to the European Commission that it is not possible to vote on such a agenda item again at any item on the agenda at a Commission meeting. I believe that it should be left to the Member State itself whether or not the Member State wishes to do so. I therefore particularly welcome the advance of our Federal Minister Berlakovich in this direction. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: We have done a lot in Austria, for example, farmers produce GMO-free milk. We are also willing to continue to do so, but there must also be a monetary charge for this, because it is not possible to do so in the long run with strong requirements on the world market. Therefore, all those who want Austrian quality are called upon to honor them accordingly, because one must know that quality may also cost something!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27019	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27041	Madam President. Minister! With the joint decision of Parliament in the luggage sector It is extremely negotiated, and I congratulate it, but there have already been a lot of interventions and letters in advance. At this point I would also like to say that this is a typical example of how the coalition works, because Mr Stöger and Mr Berlakovich, Minister of Health, have prepared and carried out this perfectly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is proof that it's not true when you hear: This has been done by Brussels, and: This is from the EU! [[Abg. Weinzinger: Right!]] If we use ourselves there accordingly, there are also decisions in our mind. That's something we can learn from it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: Right! That's what we've been talking about for many years!]] Perhaps another comment: I do not at all understand that the European Food Safety Authority, the EFSA, is presumptuous, advice from Austrian institutes, Austrian scientists simply wipe out of the table. We have excellent people in our AGES – I was able to convince myself recently on a visit there – and the dialogue with EFSA is simply to continue! To replicate my colleague Auer briefly, I come to the word ‘Milk’: We now have a GMO-free agriculture, but our dairy farmers are blocking it because the milk price falls so much that their farms can no longer survive. Hundreds of farmers are being terminated by dairies! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] The fact that quotas are constantly being increased and therefore the quantities are no longer to be accommodated is also based on a decision by the EU Commission. – This is the next construction site, Mr Agriculture Minister, which we must address, and that is the fastest. It can't be that hundreds of farmers have to lock their farms again!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27109	Mr Jannach has now come to speak. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27130	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! We are all pleased that the ban on genetic engineering has remained in Austria, and all the joy we can hear in the current debate is heading towards the Minister, along with a great deal of thanks for the fact that this has finally succeeded. – However, I wonder: If a Minister of Agriculture doesn't do that, what do we have him for? – He is paid for representing exactly the interests of domestic consumers and farmers! That's what he has to do! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: We have also had ministers who sold us out!]] One point you have already mentioned – this is something that has not been regulated – is co-existence, because it does not help to ban genetic engineering in Austria if genetic engineering seed is sown directly beyond the border, because there is the pollen flight. The Ministry of Health has clearly stated in a study that buffer zones and keeping intervals are to be observed, but nothing is regulated in this respect! There is no clear regulation as to who is liable for damage, there is also no clear regulation on how to compensate for damage. – There is still much to be done, because this regulation has to be created, otherwise these things will remain on the farmers! It can also be noted that in the area of agricultural policy, the big companies are making the policy quite clearly. Take a look at the company Monsanto, for example! It also receives millions from the funding of the European Union, while the local farmers are fed with a "bet of funding" and controlled by the AMA and thus also by the Ministry, so to speak, into the bedroom. The ÖVP and the SPÖ always emphasize how heroically the Minister of Agriculture has negotiated here, but in the Financial Times Germany of the 9th century. In March, German Environment Minister Sigmar Gabriel, who is by the way a Social Democratic, said that he did not vote in favour of the ban on genetic engineering because genetic engineering is so harmful, but he voted in favour of the ban on genetic engineering, because the FPÖ in Austria has become so strong. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: A good man!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I quote from the Financial Times, and there you can all read how seriously the politicians of the other parties take the first arms of the FPÖ in Austria. [[Abg. Grosz: But you should be able to read them too! That's just an introduction! Or is there already the German edition?]] Environment Minister Sigmar Gabriel said: Gabriel refused to force Austria and Hungary to abolish their genmais ban. An appropriate request from the European Commission there – in Austria – is a European mood, said Gabriel. The success – and I quote – achieved by the FPÖ with its EU critique was crucial to its vote. – Everything else was a lie! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Here, the Minister has not negotiated, but we see that the FPÖ can also make a great deal for the interests of domestic farmers and consumers from the opposition point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27217	Mr Huber is now speaking. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27238	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The vote in Brussels in honour, but the dual nature of this federal government, the misleading of the population and the farmers must be stopped immediately! Yesterday, the EU approved the cultivation of T45 varieties of genetically modified rape, and this is a scandal! As long as we are importing 600 000 tonnes of genetically modified feed in Austria and thus bringing it to the plates of the population, the Federal Minister is called upon to do urgent action!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27269	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27290	Madam President. Yes, it is a real day of joy! Madam President, I think you, at the time, as the competent Minister for Consumer Protection in 1999... – 1997, I remember correctly the first law on bans in the May area has been decreed. [[President Mag. Prammer: 1997!]] This was a long time ago, and it is seen that this policy is a success story for Austria, for the Austrian regions and especially for Austrian consumers and farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! On this issue, however, one also sees that it is an international permanent burner – the colleague Auer has rightly addressed some facets of this debate. This debate is not only being held in Parliaments or between different groups, but it is a political debate that goes to the substance of global trade in goods and global protection. I remind you: The WTO panel on genetic engineering was at all the most extensive “straf process” – under quotation marks – that the Commission had to deal with, and the panel then contained more than 1,000 pages. I think that, in such a success story, all the fathers and mothers of this success should be truly appreciated on this day, and I think it is really appropriate to put the Austrian Parliament here in the spotlight: Ladies and gentlemen! It is here that we have made a significant contribution, on the one hand with the ministers, to hold this discussion with the ministers, possibly to strengthen their backs or to make concrete critical remarks, to make additions and to hold discussions. This is a sign that living parliamentaryism – even though sometimes it is laborious in the committees, with the experts – leads to results-orientated if this process is discussed and led so far. At the same time – and this is the other side – civil society, NGOs, environmental organisations, ladies and gentlemen, are the most successful environmental movements in Europe and worldwide! From Vandana Shiva in India to Percy Schmeiser, a Canadian farmer in Canada, to José Bovet in France, and of course also the Austrian farmers together with the consumers who... [[Deputies Mag. Gaßner, Mag. Widmann and Tadler: Up to Pirklbauer!]] We all see ourselves in this network as important interface multipliers, and that is undoubtedly what we are as politicians. In this respect, it is very welcome when an observer from the Upper Austrian Raiffeisen Association says clearly on this point: Yes, that is important, because that is a protection for our possibilities of food production! – With all the criticisms, Mr Jannach, which you can repeatedly add in detail, in many facets – and I could list a very long list – you should not overlook these points either. It is important that large trading companies, such as SPAR, BILLA and all other chains, want this freedom of genetic engineering on their shelves as well as consumers, as well as environmental organisations and so on. As I said, Mr Federal Minister, thank you for your efforts in this area. Now it was about revealing and clarifying the further strategy. That's where I'd ask you: Don't forget the regions in Europe! Strengthen the regional network of GMO-free regions! Strengthen the critical research of risk, as our joint proposal states in it! This is the lever to secure our strategy in the long term. We should now also fight through these budgets, cover them – we will have the budget negotiations in the house. And we are also trying to take an offensive approach to the expansion of non-genotechnic production in other areas, for example in the meat sector, not only in the milk sector, in Austria! That's why I'd ask you. And it's really a day of joy today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27340	Next speaker: Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27361	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Firstly, I would like to thank you very much for the congratulations on the occasion of the decision of the Environment Council. It was really true that few or almost nobody expected us to get through to the Environment Council. Many media have said that now, at the fourth time when a request from the Commission for the abolition of our cultivation bans is being made, the ban will be tilted, Austria will find no majority. It was true that the Commission's request came and – you know, a qualified majority of 74 percent of the votes in the Member States – we had 150 votes in the 345 votes, with Hungary, France and Greece as partners from the beginning, not even half of the votes. It has used a great lobbying for Austria's interests – I have even spoken with a lot of ministers and ministers in Europe to win them for us, but also at ambassador level, at the level of officials. Political colleagues, health ministers Stöger and many others were also in use here. The jumping point was that Germany has always supported us so far, but this time it has not. In Germany the opinions in the Federal Government go the following point is added: For example, it is the Environment Minister for us, the German Minister of Agriculture for us, but parts of the German Federal Government are for genetic engineering and in this case against us. Germany has said that it contains the vote this time, and this was a decisive partner away, so I probably already went to the meeting of the Environment Council on Monday with a simple majority, but we were far away from the qualified three-quarters majority, i.e. 74 percent. I could still be there at the meeting – and anyone who was in meetings would have been thrilled by the dynamics that prevailed there because one could still move a lot there – the German Environment Minister who was, of course, here in a difficult position; as I said, the German Federal Government took a non-uniform position. His motives were there, whichever they were. What the Financial Times writes: Cui bono? - If it's useful, I should be right. In any case, it was the case that, in the session itself, in a huge dynamic, we received such a high approval as never before, namely in the case of a maize variety, an 82 percent consent and in the case of the second type of maize, even 85 percent consent. Romania, for example, has said from the outset that in the case of a variety of maize, they do not support us, otherwise they do not support us. They also came to our side. So it was really unique and great. You can believe me, each of us who is in politics is delighted with such successes, because you see that you can design when you fight until the last. It doesn't always have to go well, but in this case it went well. As a relatively new minister in this function, I am particularly pleased because there is something really successful here, too, in the European political context: that Europe has not gone beyond the interests of a small country, but that many states have said there, yes, they understand our position, Austria – it was also affected by the ban on cultivation of a GMO variety – wants to remain free of genetic engineering, has done so, and we accept it. For example, it has said Holland from the beginning that they do not support us, but they understand that Austria wants to go a different way. Therefore, the consequence of this matter: We don't rest on the laurels by saying we've achieved something. It is true that the Commission may, at any time, make a new request for the withdrawal of the bans on cultivation of GMO varieties. Federal Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors have therefore also taken the opportunity, as President Barroso in Vienna, to inform him that the Commission must ultimately take note of: If such an overwhelming majority – more than 85 percent of the votes, 23 states from 27 EU countries – says that Austria should be allowed to maintain the ban on cultivation, then this is already a strong signal. The Commission must also take note of this. But we will forge the iron as long as it is hot, and also those states that rely on genetic engineering, such as Spain, say that there should be a right of self-determination of the national states regarding a ban on cultivation, yes or no. Therefore, since this vote, I have been trying to bring an alliance of the like-minded countries, namely, states to us, to Austria, into the boat in order to tell the Commission in the future, it must change its legal matter. The procedure is such that I want to present this alliance in the next Council of Environment Ministers, and then the Commission itself has to change its rules in order to enable each state to determine itself on this issue; thereby also a more stringent risk assessment and, and, The right thing is – that is also the declared goal of the Federal Government – that we remain free of genetic engineering in cultivation. As an agricultural representative, I also see no benefit for our domestic agriculture in a genetic engineering plant. But it is important that the consumer honors it! I was now on my way to many federal states: For example, the “carinthia milk” produces milk, where a pickerl is “technologically free”. And it is important that the consumer also honours that! This would only be consistent, because it cannot be possible for farmers to have requirements that we use non-genotechnically modified feed – that is also much more expensive in production – and that the consumer then fails the partnership. I am not talking about genetic engineering at all, but only about fairness. In Austria, the society is largely opposed to genetic engineering in cultivation, but this should also be reflected in purchasing behaviour, as a clear signal. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Mag. Darmann.]] Of course, it is a goal that we provide so much in feed, in non-genocidal feed in our own country. An aspect of biosprit production would be the supply of protein or protein feed – clear thing! That's a target. The question of co-existence – because it was addressed here – was not the subject of the Environmental Council of Ministers, but the fact is that we have also built a safety network, namely in the federal states through the genetic engineering precautions laws, which also concerns liability issues. Furthermore, this is also covered by the newly adopted Federal Environmental Liability Act, where issues of liability for genetic engineering in the sense of co-existence must also be addressed. They know that Austria has always been skeptical of the co-existence, so there should also be a GMO agriculture in addition to organic and conventional agriculture. In practice, the problem of small-structured agriculture, as we have in Austria, is difficult to implement to impracticable, and, of course, close to the border for farmers. They are not allowed to remain there, but many laws provide that there will be liability where the state comes in – before this farmer in a neighboring state complains of his right, which no one can imagine. There are still many questions open. You can be assured that wherever you go, I will fight for Austria to remain free of genetic engineering in cultivation, because we actually see this as a great advantage and a great opportunity for our agriculture and for the large majority of the population in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27434	Mrs Hellererer is now speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27455	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yeah, it's already sounded like this: Many fathers are successful, and many mothers are successful. That's what it's supposed to be. Somehow, we all contributed to this by supporting the success of this success, which took place on 2 July. The vote in the EU Environment Council could be reached on March, which has actually failed so clearly. But I would also like to thank our Federal Minister Berlakovich very much at this point, because he has really committed himself vehemently. I think the description of how it happened at this meeting and how one until the last did not know how the majority will actually fail has already shown that the work of conviction was necessary that good arguments were necessary in order to achieve this success. However, it has also proved that individual interests of smaller countries are also accepted if they are presented with good arguments. Of course, I also like the fact that this forging is being done by alliances. It is already a bit very ambitious to find states that may even grow technically modified constructions in their own country, but still confess that the self-determination of the national states with regard to the cultivation of genetically modified seeds should be established or maintained. It is precisely because we know that the President of the European Commission, when he was addressed in Austria now, how he sees this approach, has responded very cryptically, that he must first look at how the situation develops before he says something about it, we must insist that this path must be pursued with vehemence – in the sense of Austrian agriculture and, above all, in the sense of Austrian consumers. We hope that many countries are ready to take this path with Austria. I wish Mr Berlakovich a great deal of success that he could succeed in forging these alliances so that the ban on the cultivation of genetically modified constructions in Austria can continue to be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27494	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27516	Madam President. Minister! High house! Yes, 80 percent of the population are opposed to genetically engineered foods. Genetically modified plants have so far not been able to make a positive contribution to the eradication of the hunger situation. Instead, modern and sustainable agriculture promises Duration of larger crops, does not destroy any natural resources and, through more stable prices, allows the farmers to survive worldwide. The genetic engineering forces chemical use in the fields, brings no higher yields and provides a boost for industrial and monocultural agriculture. Our population does not want genetically modified plants and food. I am therefore pleased to congratulate Mr Berlakovich, in particular our Minister for Health, Stöger, and his experts, who, together in tough negotiations and lobbying, have succeeded in preventing the Commission's request for the abolition of the Austrian ban on cultivation of the maize line. Today's five-party application continues the Austrian-wide, cross-party, closed resistance to genetic engineering in the field and to the tellers. Mr. Minister, you're still required!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27549	The following speakers have all set themselves a voluntary time limit of 2 minutes. That is why I am not going to mention them any more. Mr Mayer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27573	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! I do not know any Austrian farmer who has been on a wish list somewhere, that he wants to grow genetically modified seed in his fields; nor does anyone who would be convinced of his need – not to mention the view of consumers who, as we have just heard, do not want it. It is therefore completely incomprehensible to me that companies keep trying, with all the means, to push GMO-changed seed on the Austrian market. In this context, I should like to congratulate our Federal Minister on the success recently achieved on this issue at EU level. The Austrian farmers practice honest and transparent food production. If we are required here to have more fried foods that have just been produced free of genetic engineering, then this is only a good right, and our farmers will also comply with it. There are many successful projects. I just mention the bio sector. You can assume from the house that there is no genetic engineering work, that's so clear. But precisely these additional benefits, which have been or are required here – the additional benefits in the control, the declaration or the production – are currently not honoured by the market. If we are talking about an extra charge, then we arrived again very quickly at a food price discussion, but I do not want to wear it here. But it is about paying off the benefits of the Austrian farmers. Perhaps there are some examples that I would like to mention where to have non-genotechnic food: not only in the dairy sector, in the organic sector, but there is also another positive example, namely McDonald’s Austria. McDonald’s Austria can guarantee... – It’s just an example. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I wouldn't advertise companies!]] Okay. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Or Burger King!]] – He doesn't do that! The example therefore shows the following: Through the AMA seal, McDonald’s Austria guarantees beef from animals born, fed, kept and slaughtered in Austria. And he puts one more on it: He can also guarantee that the meat comes from cows fed with non-genotechnic feed. – But this is only possible in Austria, because the farmers and their organisations have provided a corresponding contribution. In Germany, McDonald's can't do that because the structures are not right there. This is a justification for higher prices for Austrian food! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] But again to the request: It is a very useful request that concerns us, our wishes... – Non-genocidal milk, non-genocidal cheese! - All right. [[Abg. Riepl: How is Cheeseburger?]] So this is a sensible request, and I hope that we can have broad support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27646	Mr Schopf. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27667	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This issue is particularly important for rural areas. Of course, we know that around 80 percent of the population here is our opinion, but in the rural area, I think, it is 99 or almost 100 percent. Humans therefore reject genetically engineered plants, genetically modified foods very massively. And I think – and we agree with God – that the European Commission’s decision on this matter is both a right and an important one. I would like to thank the Minister for the Environment and Agriculture, but also the Minister for Health Alois Stöger. Both of them have done an excellent joint work with their experts. Ladies and gentlemen! This decision was also of major economic importance for many regions. It was not only for farmers, not only for consumers, but, I think, a very important point in the area of tourism. I think we should also use our non-genotechnic zones massively in advertising, especially as regards our tourism. [[Abg. May. Gässner: For the mill district!]] Yes, this is particularly important for the mill district. The Mühlviertel is 100 percent free of genetic engineering and the population stands for it. We have to fight this out properly for tourism. [[Assured by the honourable Member Mag. Gaßner and Prince.]] Ladies and gentlemen, despite this success at European level, we must not put our hands in the lap. We need to convince other countries and regions in Europe that our path is the right one. It is the right path in an ecological, but also in an economic sense. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27710	Mr Eßl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27731	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are adopting a proposal to keep the bans on genetic engineering against which the EU is talking. Thank God our Minister has succeeded in convincing the European countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This proposal also includes a right of self-determination of the regions of Europe on non-genotechnic agriculture. I think there is still a lot to do in the future to move something so that we can strengthen it in Europe. Austria is free of genetic engineering, and Austria will remain free of genetic engineering. This five-party request will do so. The European Commission has repeatedly tried to eliminate these bans, but thank God it has succeeded in preventing them. I can thank Federal Minister Berlakovich for taking up the struggle for self-determination, which has convinced other European countries and has ultimately brought home a majority. The ÖVP has gone a consistent way, not that of confrontation, but of seeking allies. The current Vice-Chancellor Pröll has already begun a large genetic engineering conference in Austria, and Niki Berlakovich has continued to do so accordingly. Austria's farmers, I can say this with pride, are working in harmony with nature and are certainly pioneers throughout Europe, almost worldwide, I say now. But free of genetic engineering alone is not enough, of course we need a counter-performance to do so. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to or not. I must therefore address the appeal to consumers, who will also be able to respect it accordingly, and in the future they will also receive exactly the product they want.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27779	Mrs Bayr is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27801	I think that this five-party proposal reflects the broad consensus that exists in the Austrian population in the rejection of genetically engineered organisms in the field and on the plate. Three thoughts about this: First: It is indeed alarming that the European Commission is obviously going here and that a situation – the abolition of the ban on the cultivation of CMOs in Austria – can always and again lead to a vote, until then the result may be appropriate; a result that just doesn't fit us. I think that the question of national self-determination and the rules on how to get a political opinion is really something to do – it is urgent to do! Secondly, I also consider it problematic how the authorisation procedure in EFSA now works. There are very clear scientific shortcomings in the procedure, there is no serious risk assessment of GMOs, and there are declarations of safety that are obviously not even worth the paper on which they are printed. Austria can only win its fight to refuse the cultivation of these CMOs, especially against the WTO if there are good, scientifically sound arguments. So I'm on the third point. It will be necessary to continue carrying out technologically critical research and risk research, and I am glad that there will continue to be €300 000 for this. This is not much, but it is at least so much that you can continue to ensure that research is carried out. I would also like to see a close on such issues between politics and the population in many other issues. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27838	Mr Hörl has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27881	Madam President. Federal Minister! We support you today in maintaining the ban on genetic engineering. I should also like to congratulate you once again on your success in Brussels. This success was also a sign of a Europe of the regions that we all wish for within the European Union. I think that was also a rejection of centralism and of the Commission's driving. I also think it is a worrying development if we are constantly being voted on and we are repeatedly challenged, and I ask you, Minister of State, to ensure that this decision can be taken at national level again in the future. Austria, the Austrian agriculture is trying to bring an added value to the customers with organic farming, which has a very high international value. “Yes, of course!”-genus regions, alpine and mountain cheeses or – as in my home country – the silo-free zillertal hay milk are products of vital animals, of juicy meadows, healthy air, colorful pastures, from dreamy landscape. There is no genetic engineering in this environment. Genetic engineering also does not fit the tourism that depends on our beautiful landscape. In tourism we also do a lot for nature conservation. Especially in my district, in the district of Schwaz, the second largest tourist district in this country – 8.2 million nights; the federal capital brings just 10 million together – we have a sewage treatment plant that extends from the Italian border, from the central Alps to the Karwendel, to the German border. We've managed to make our streams have drinking water quality. 35 percent of our area is protected areas. – And we do all of this voluntarily because it is our home country and we love our home country. We don't need any regulations to do that. Mrs Mag. Mr Brunner, I would like to say this to you in the debate on the previous point: Their attitude, behind every farmer, behind every entrepreneur a potential environmental sinister to see a potential environmental criminal, is essential! We do this voluntarily. We do it for our home, because we love our home.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27923	Mr Faul is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27944	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr. Jannach, I'm glad you're back. I wanted to ask you what it's like when the AMA at your home controls the gene-free bedroom. That would really interest me. But if it leads to you thinking more clearly the next day, I should be right if the AMA controls it. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! You can't play it down: It is a tremendous achievement not only to oppose the European Union, but above all to the lobbyism behind it. Mr Gaßner and Mr Bayr also referred to the EFSA and meant that it was all a little bit searching and persecuting. Personally, Mr Minister, I do not think anything about these corridors – because I am looking at the Minister of Justice just now – would be a case for a permanent use of justice – but I believe that Europe should be convinced of drawing on a common thread. Mr Auer, I can tell you: My young consumers are very aware. They like to buy organic, and they would also like to buy genetic engineering free. I think you need to do something more about this and especially apply for these products.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27978	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e27999	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Our Minister of Agriculture, in cooperation with our Minister of Health and the Federal Government, has succeeded in maintaining at EU level the maintenance of the Austrian genetic engineering bans. – Thank you very much for that, warm congratulations! It is also right and good that there is a five-party request that the Federal Government should continue to oppose the authorisation of genetic engineering in agriculture at EU level. The aim must be to achieve non-genotechnic agriculture in Europe, and so it must continue to pool forces across the party's borders. But not only at European level, but also at national level, it is important to seek and allow changes in agriculture – changes that, in particular, enable our small-structured farms and farmers to survive in their incomes and their existence. There are challenges and different interests between our small farmers and mass animal production sites – challenges I would like to discuss as a new member of the Committee on Agriculture. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Everything, just no sharpening! Sharpening looks different!]] Structural change, Mr Westenthaler, despite developments in the European market, ladies and gentlemen, in Austria we also have a responsibility towards those people who unfortunately fall victim to the existing system by closing their small businesses. We may be able to work together to ensure that Austria, for example, where Austria is facing it, is in the future also really Austria; that is, not only in the processing of products, but also in the product that is to come exclusively from Austria and in which ingredients from Austria are also in it. That's not always the case. That means, in Steirisch's words: Where steiric bacon is on it is also said to be a Styrian pig in it. Or, in other words, Where Tyrolean bacon insists, at least an Austrian pig should be in it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the future, we must not precipitate our consumers in this matter. It is important to work on the fact that, where Austria is on it, Austria is also really in it. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, I am looking forward to cooperation in the Committee on Agriculture in the interests of Austrian agriculture and the Austrian farmers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e28042	Mr Sacher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e28063	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! As the last speaker, I am obviously allowed to conclude this ode to the joy of oneness. This ambiguity is pleasing, especially within the government coalition, which has already been deeply thanked – in the person of the two ministers – but also the involvement and consent of the opposition. The constructiveness there is would be extremely desirable for other areas. Then Austrian politics would have a higher reputation both within and outside our country. High house! It is all the more gratifying that this community is all the more than it has always been given. It is good that some have changed their views on the positive side also in the federal states. I remember, for example, the attitude of the ÖVP in Lower Austria in the Landtag, when you spoke against a GMO-free Lower Austria. At that time, the ÖVP was opposed. It took several years until in Lower Austria a common genetic engineering precautionary law has been established. Other parties such as the FPÖ or the Greens have also jumped on a driving train in recent years. Back to the thing: Austria will strengthen and commit itself to the right of self-determination of the regions in the EU. I also come from a region that can expect the highest quality products from a region with excellent fruit and wine production of the highest quality. I would therefore like to add one more aspect to the discussion: I also understand this joint decision today as an educational mission to the agricultural education sector, to schools, to agricultural schools, to fruit and wine schools, where not only are taught, but also researched in this respect, and as an assignment to train young people to take a stand against genetic engineering. Inseparable from today's decision, High House, the common commitment is that we want healthy, natural and genetically untreated foods. I am sure, Minister of State, that consumers, as you have mentioned, will appreciate this in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e28108	Mr Sacher, I must let you down: You are not the last speaker in this debate. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e28136	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! The Committee's report and, above all, the corresponding motion for a resolution, which we very much welcome, show with full strengths and weaknesses how the European Union deals with green genetic engineering and, above all, with its Member States. That means we need more pressure in the future – more scientific pressure and more political pressure. More scientific pressure means continuing, for example, the studies commissioned by Mr Stöger, Federal Minister of Education, to complete, extend, to continue; I assume Mr Berlakovich will surely be happy to join with his budget. But that also means making political pressure with these results and imposing genetic engineering freedom not only in cultivation, but above all in import – even if it is against the EU's explicit wish. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What does that mean for, among other things, EFSA, the most obscurated and peculiar organisation in the European Union? That is, first of all, a stop on the authorisation of all new organisms, and that is to say a re-evaluation of procedures which have so far been obviously carried out negligently. The mode, how we could enforce it, may well be a bit more flexicious. On the content there are already a few proposals, for example by Mr Auer; I can certainly join in many things, how he wants to enforce them. The mode should be a rougher; Ireland shows how it is. You don't necessarily have to make praises or go on trips to Mary's thanks, as is so much the case in the right half of the empire, but you can do more flexibly, because freedom of genetic engineering and self-determination should not be empty culprits.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e28172	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 150 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 15.) [[21:47:10]] 21. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 271/A by Mr Mag. Heribert Donnerbauer, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Convention on the Expulsion, the Civil Procedure, the Extraordinary Law, the Law on Jurisdiction 1962, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Ordinance of Criminal Procedure 1975, the Law of Criminal Enforcement 1972, the Law of Prosecution, the Law of Criminal Victims, the Law on Criminal Registers, the Safety Police Law and the General Civil Code (Second Law on the Protection of Violence – 2. The European Commission, the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee (Economic and Social Committee), the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Economic and Social Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. Question 81/A by Dr Peter Fichtenbauer, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 15 December 1989 was adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Communities. February 1972 on the eradication of convictions and restriction of information (Tilling Act 1972), BGBl. No. 68/1972, as amended by: Amendment 82/A by Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on the acts threatened by judicial penalties (Strafgesetzbuch – StGB), BGBl. No. 60/1974, is amended and Petitions (1/PET) on ‘Restriction of sexual offences’, presented by August Wöginger(106 d.b.) 22. Point Report and request of the Justice Committee on the draft federal law amending the Constitution and Residence Act (107 d.a.) 23. Point Report by the Justice Committee on Amendment 87/A by Dr Peter Fichtenbauer, Members of Parliament on a federal law with which the Federal Law on the acts threatened by judicial penalties (Strafgesetzbuch – StGB), BGBl. No. 60/1974, amended (108 d.a.) 24. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e28295	We shall now proceed to points 21 to 24 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. First, Mr Fichtenbauer spoke with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e28326	Madam President. This so-called anti-violence package is mainly a consensus matter, although we did not agree to it in committee. For certain reasons that I am going to explain, of course we agree today, because it has also succeeded in placing the so-called manuscript of the Freedom Party in the provisions of the Expulsion Act, § 99 StGB. On the other hand, we have a critical attitude to § 128 StPO, and I shall table the amendment tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer and other colleagues: The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: Amendment No 271/A by Mr Mag. Heribert Donnerbauer, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues on the Second Law on the Protection of Violence, as amended by the Committee's report (106 d.b.) is amended as follows: 1. In Article VI (amendment of the criminal code), point 9a is replaced by the following: On the motion for a resolution 88/A, to which I now refer, we had a relatively intense discussion in the Committee on Chemical Castration for Sexual Penalties, with particular reference to the ÖVP as the rejection party. I do not want to assume that the ÖVP wants to become the protective force of perverted perpetrators and sexual offenders. I'm just saying it doesn't seem to have been thought through at the time. Once again, I objectively cite the facts: Austria would not be alone on this point. It was not a permanent measure that could not be taken back. The chemical castration is essentially the administration of an antiandrogenic. A common medicinal product would be the drug Androcur used in prostates, but also in the form of pills for women. Poland, Great Britain, France and Spain are also working on such a measure, so that it is not understandable to link the expression ‘inhuman punishment’ or even ‘parents’ to the terms used in the Committee. In this sense, we will take up a new initiative proposal and then hope that the matter will get better access. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e28393	The amendment tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer was properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e29007	Mr Mag. Donnerbauer is now speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e29029	Madam President. My dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fichtenbauer, the ÖVP is very likely to be a prevention party when it comes to preventing violence, especially in the family circle and particularly sexually motivated violence. And that is also the reason for this second package of violence. That is why we are very glad that this is now on track and we decide today. I am also pleased that we have been able to convince you since the Justice Committee to agree and take an important step towards preventing violence in the family and, above all, against sexually motivated violence. What do we want to achieve with the force package? It is about developing a deterrent effect on the one hand and protecting the victims on the other, both the actual victims of violence and potential victims, through prevention. In the field of deterrence, there are some higher penalties, especially in the case of crimes against the weakest in our society, against children and young people. For example only: In the case of sexual abuse of the unmistakable, the criminal framework is now extended to life, which is a very clear signal, even for such potential perpetrators. The minimum penalties in some areas are also significantly increased, which is also very important. The second area of deterrence is that of introducing new crimes of continued violence. Likewise a new offence is that of the knowing consumption of child pornography. [[Abg. Petzner: Tomorrow you also have a offence! You and Mrs. Fekter have a judicial scandal!]] Likewise, now – very important, because a petition was also handed over – the limitation periods are extended. The second area – the protection of the victims – is of course also very important to us, on the one hand in the field of prevention – temporary orders are now being extended and significantly extended – but the process support is also extended. What was also a very important concern to us in the previous year, which we are also grateful to God today, is that the time limits are extended and that, above all after a conditional dismissal, there is mandatory judicial supervision and that, on the other hand, bans on activities can now be issued, so that sexual offenders can no longer be engaged in the field of professional groups or professions that come into contact with children and young people. Overall, this is, I believe, a very important step, which we have already prepared very carefully in the previous year and which is simply intended to protect the weakest in our society.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e29063	Mr Mag. Stadler is now speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (on the way to the speaker's desk) This is too short, Madam President!]] - That's not decided by me. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, yes, I know! I'll just need a little longer – that you're not irritated!]] Should I tell him he's got 28 minutes left? – Ladies and gentlemen, you know, 20 minutes per debate. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You simply wave away when it takes too long!]] Total residence period for the BZÖ: 28 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e29146	Madam President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! First: As Mr Donnerbauer has said, this package of violence is a step in the right direction – and quite a considerable step. That's why we're going to carry that in general. [[As a result of the accident at BZÖ and the SPÖ representatives.]] But we're not going to get tired of going on, because one thing I want to say: For years we have tried to find political hearing among your predecessors for these measures – for years! It's gone down for years. For years one has pretended to be inhuman, unacceptable, hostile to human beings. And all that came out of the SPÖ, of course, the ÖVP has immediately replicated, because every politically correct nonsense in the ÖVP usually hit fertile ground. Now one has come to believe that everything is somehow justified because the offenses are increasing in drama. I'm glad, Mrs. Federal Minister, that this is on the table now. However, we will make it clear with an amendment that we want to go further, in particular what the sex offender file that is available to anyone is, because we cannot imagine how to protect ourselves against sexual offenders if you do not have general access to this file. We also want to be with heavy sexual offenders who are really a ticking time bomb – and there are! – a permanent monitoring measure in other countries. – Her colleague, Mrs Bundesminister für Innens, also said that this really works there. That actually has effects, but you don't want it here. It's going to be the time when you're going to do it – I'm sure. In the meantime, there will be a few more victims. In the meantime, there will be dramatic things again. In the meantime, a few people will have to pay for it again until you get into it that you have to go through something. If you realize that a problem is simply present, you also have to have the courage to go through things and do them the way we have suggested, as it also works abroad. Madam President. I call the amendment tabled by Mr Scheibner, Mag. Stadler, Hagen, colleagues and colleagues, who obviously already have to be present to you, are only brief, because it is so extensive and, in particular, very complicated, because it includes amendments to the individual paragraphs. I would ask you to have this request distributed. I brought him in here. We will not agree, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter, to the Federal Act, which amends the Constitutional and Residence Law. There was a small pollutant at the Committee meeting because of the hustle and bustle that arose. And to make it clear: We will not carry this law because it is really nothing but a humanitarian stay over the back door. Of course, we will not support this, nor will we support your proposals. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, we believe that the ban on settlement for highly dangerous perpetrators, sexual offenders, is too far away. We also believe that lifelong supervision is essential. We also believe that there must be mandatory life-long imprisonment in the case of serious sexual offences. I remember a debate which is one of the most dramatic things that we have discussed here in the House at all. Those of you who have been in the house for a long time will remember this: A legally condemned, severe sexual offender – I think it was in the Styria – has begun a relationship with his psychotherapist caretaker and has finally killed this woman and her child. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was in Lower Austria!]] – Or it was in Lower Austria, I am no longer quite sure in which state it was in. Dramatic was: He has arranged this child in such a way that even the traces of the knife tips were still present in the parquet floor. He has pierced this child with the knife – several times. That was a ticking time bomb, and we all said that there must never be anything like that again. I tell you, I hope there will never be anything like this again, but I am afraid we cannot prevent it because, according to the current legal situation, it is not possible to condemn such a person accordingly if he does not get into action. – I am saying that, but you yourself, Mrs. Federal Minister, know from your judicial activity that the willingness to send people into action, when they are overburdened – it is a mess, you know – is not really big – especially if they believe social-Romantic psychotherapists, it is now really resocialized. And then the debate follows, as the colleague Dr. Fichtenbauer has rightly done, on the chemical castration. If you don't do the action anymore – this has, of course, been social romance! [[Abg. Pendl: no social romance!]] She started a pansherl with that, and in front of loud social romance she finally paid on it herself, and also her own child. Ladies and gentlemen, if that's not social romance, I don't know either! In the case of judges, the tendency to this social romance is unfortunately present. - That's what it is. There would be the possibility of chemical castration, which has nothing to do with inhuman treatment. This is not something of a snapping process, as I think a colleague from the ÖVP has adopted. Chemical castration is a treatment that takes every woman in this country in a similar form – that is, with her anti-baby pill. So please don't upset yourself, that's a hormone treatment, as she takes any woman with her anti-baby pill. To make this a human rights problem is grotesque. This is social romance, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! This is exactly the social romance that is very dangerous for some people – and I say again: the most defenseless in this country – because they carry the risk for this social romance. – They carry the risk, not we in there. The risk rarely carries one of us, but it carries those who usually come into contact with these perpetrators outside in a certain environment. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, we may be left with dramatic events. Experience teaches that, unfortunately, this is not the case, but that criminal energy is particularly pronounced in drivers who have a different motivation than the rational behavior of the ordinary criminal. And with chemical castration, there is a possibility to make an alternative to the already overburdened execution of measures in addition to the life-long management supervision. They will come back to these proposals sooner or later, of which I am sure.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e29230	Mr Magistrate. The amendment tabled by Stadler in his main directions is properly filed. I leave him according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of their scope. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e29604	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e29625	Madam President. Dear women Federal ministers! Mr Stadler, it is truly not romantic to know that every fifth woman in her life has to do with violence, that in the family, which should be the safest place for a person, many acts of violence are committed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Accept!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: Domestic violence is not a private matter, the law must not look away. This package of violence has been an important and important step. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We, the SPÖ, have always called for further expansion of the measures to protect women. We need to respond to this new crime, which goes into the reality of many years of violent relations. So far, only individual acts such as necessity, body injury, threat, abuse or the like could be claimed. A crime of its own for many years of violence now takes into account the fact that victims are exposed to multiple and persistent strains and threats. A criminal framework is now foreseen between six months and five years. This is a great progress, ladies and gentlemen, in the fight against domestic violence, which is mostly violence against women. The central passage of the second anti-violence law on this issue is the continued use of force under criminal threat. This crime is intended to offer women living in violent relations a corresponding exit scenario. Practical experience of the anti-violence centres clearly shows that a single act rarely takes place in domestic violence. In the vast majority of cases, the history of suffering has always been a recurring case of individual acts of violence, so-called violent relations, from which those affected can only be very difficult to resolve. There are various forms of psychoterrorism, abuses, constant control, restrictions, degradations, humiliations, body injuries, psychological, physical and sexualized violence. The seriousness of the act will only be adequately taken into account if all the acts of violence lasting for a longer period of time are taken into account. Only then will the dynamics of the relationship of violence and the long stories of suffering become visible. If only individual offences are dealt with in criminal proceedings, as has been the case so far, this does not correspond to what the victim has suffered over weeks or even months or years. The experience of the victim, ladies and gentlemen, is to be found in the criminal trial as a whole. When violent relations are sanctioned as a whole series of violent experiences, as a cycle of violence, society shows with the means of criminal law that it does not tolerate such violent relations, and thus acts in addition to awareness-building and preventive. We really did something important, and I'm really proud of that. A two-year preparatory work was necessary, Minister Berger has prepared a lot here, and this innovation will bring real improvements to the victims in the future. The message we can be proud of is: No human has the right to affect another person in his/her physical, mental, mental, and sexual integrity. The relationship in which they stand must not be significant. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with this law, we show how serious it is for us to take action against violence – and in particular against violence in the family. There must be no beautifications, weakenings and taboo themes. The new law no longer hesitates to name acts of violence clearly. Austria was already leading the way across Europe. Now we have taken another step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e29671	Now comes Mr Mag. Stefan speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e29692	High house! It has already been found that this anti-violence law is also largely liberal and we therefore carry it. However, there are some criticisms, and I am now grasping out two. Firstly, the extension of the three-month allocation to six months. We reject this, because this opens the door to abuse, and it also leads to a prejudication of subsequent divorce, custody and visitation proceedings. We know that this is also very serious in practice. We have already tested that the directions for women's guidance services are specifically recommended in order to create a prejudice. The argument that the applicant must have six months to search for an apartment is also contrary to the fact that the person who is rejected must pack up his property and property within a few minutes or no longer has the opportunity to do so and is then removed for six months. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Saussill: Not at all!]] - No, it's the time span just too long. Three months are sufficient, we reject this extension. I therefore propose a corresponding amendment. The second anti-violence law, as amended by the Committee's report, is amended as follows: In Article I, the word ‘six’ is replaced by the word ‘three’ in paragraph 1. In Article I, point 3, the word ‘one year’ is replaced by ‘six months’. In Article III, the word ‘one year’ is replaced by ‘six months’ in point 4. A second criticism is, as stated in our amendment by Dr. Fichtenbauer, that the creation of judicial medical advice should now also be possible through university institutes. On the other hand, there is massive resistance from very broad areas of justice. I would just like to point out a few arguments that have been put forward here to show how this has been rejected. That's all you need to add. The President of the Supreme Court shall: Impairment of the principles of immediacy and independence of good practice, monopolistic prejudice. Or the Oberstaatsanwaltschaft Graz: constitutional concerns and unequal treatment of experts. Or the Austrian Bar Association: Monopolisation, no choice for the court, no refusal for parties, no possibility of review, no other expert will be considered second choice as experts. The judge's association has spoken against it. The Vienna State Government, the Austrian Society for Judicial Medicine. So there is rarely any such widespread rejection, and that is why we should also come closer to it and agree with our amendment. On the whole, it should be noted that the reform would be much better if our amendments were to be supported.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e29734	Mr Mag. Stefan, I assume that it was a read or promise before: You said at your lecture: ‘3. In Article III...’, and not ‘Article I...’, as stated in the written application. I assume you missed this. [[Abg. May. Stefan knows this.]] The amendment is therefore properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e29816	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e29837	Ladies and gentlemen! We will vote in favour of the package on violence. In many respects it corresponds to long-term demands from the intervention agencies and the women's homes. But a sentence to colleague Stefan. I don't know if I've been questioned – correct me if that's the case! –: Did you really think that in the intervening order against domestic violence, women would misuse this regulation? If you're serious about this, I recommend: Go to Women's Houses and look You're looking at the women affected! [[Abg. May. Stefan: This is how they will be advised!]] You are all serious about the fact that victims of violence are misusingly using the interlocutory order that is under judicial review?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Stefan: There are such cases! You'll be so advised!]] I take note of the following: Clearly, FPÖ is making itself a defense attorney for some men – that speaks for itself! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interruption calls at the FPÖ, including Fig. Dr. Haimbuchner: Shame what you're doing! You have no idea at all.]] You should be ashamed of the abuse charge, for that you should be ashamed! But we will create the public for this. Obviously, you changed the pages and no longer stand for victim protection. We take note of this, and we will make it public. This is obviously the new line of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: That's incredible! That's a joke!]] Mrs Bundesminister, there are still a few points that we need to discuss here with all our approval of the package for the protection of violence. Some Members have tabled an own-initiative proposal here, and the first thing you have done was: You have limited some important points. And I am still telling you the points that are particularly unfortunate – you can clearly agree with the FPÖ – which are going towards limiting the protection of victims. First point: Legal process support in civil law proceedings. And the second point is psychosocial care for crimes in the private sector. That sounds legal; what does that mean? - Break-in thefts. Tomorrow stands in the “standard” – serious medium –: Increase in burglary thefts by 60 percent. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not quite true!]] I'm telling you quite honestly: It is cynical to take care of these people psychosocially, for we know that even victims who do not become victims of direct violence are often severely traumatized, afraid to stay alone in the apartment. And what are you doing? – They take the protection of exactly those victims. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Mr Colleague, that's a little exaggeration!]] A second point: You have learned very quickly the unkinds of parliamentarianism, which I very much regret. There has been a comprehensive request, and the committee then, of course, brought in by large-scale coalitions, a comprehensive amendment, which partially brought new materials which had been withdrawn from the review procedure. Ordinary You don't want to do this, it's a bad parliamentary style! [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Are you cutting our initiative?]] Don't get wrong advice! The best way is the direct way. If you have an idea, put it to the debate, ask your critics in the review procedure! [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Do you take our initiative?]] An example has already been brought: This is the scandalous situation of the appointment of the experts of judicial medicine, who can now only be ordered directly through the institute. Mrs Bundesminister, you know that two ministers of justice have already tried to do so before you. Every time there has been massive criticism from those concerned. Lawyers, judges, lawyers, all have said: Hands away, it's not StPO-compliant! The colleague I previously criticized quoted this: intervention in party rights; It has been said that the independence of the well-founded activity has been undermined; the principles of the free choice of courts are undermined in the order for experts. – So massive criticism. Her predecessors have withdrawn from this address after this massive criticism. [[Abg. Steibl: What does predecessor mean inside? There are also predecessors!]] You have drawn your own conclusions from it: They do not send it into the review process so that you do not have to face the criticism of the experts, but they simply smuggle it through the committee to the experts. What is the consequence? The Minister of Foreign Affairs then came back in a moment. Obviously, then, there has been the uprising of the prosecutors, because the regime was then disintegrated. She has probably had the “hut ” full of protesting prosecutors within three days, even though she has tried. Then you're back. And what remains? – You also degradate with your compromise solution the courts to beggars at court medicine. You leave an absolute chaos in the criminal order by changing parts, not changing other parts. Let me give you an example: If a murder occurs, you will need to order the Institute of Justice Medicine immediately after the new regulation; order the firearms expert ad personam, the psychiatrist ad personam. In the main proceedings, the same murder, you can no longer order the institute, but have to again – § 126, read on! – ad personam order a judge. If the person concerned is not dead, he is injured, ad personam is ordered again. They have messed up the criminal code with this irregularity, with a single objective – that is indeed to be recognized –: They want to ensure that the court medicine, the Institute of Jurisdictional Medicine, is in place. That's the pretext. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: A hopeless case!]] You just won't achieve this goal, because you know exactly that a completely different state of judicial medicine has broken the neck: The fact that a state law has been amended in Vienna and the number of sanity openings has decreased by 90 percent. And that finally broke the neck of the court medicine. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mrs Bundesminister, you are therefore going to be confused in the criminal system with this confusion. Your goal is not to reach and leave a chaos behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30014	Mr President, your remarks have not shown whether you have made a request or not. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Is only brought in!]] He's only being brought in. Next speaker: Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30045	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! With the second package for the protection of violence, which is now before the National Council for the vote, we are presenting a comprehensive and effective package aimed at extending the protection of victims in spite of the financial crisis and in spite of the savings budget. As all of you can read in my previous opinions, this bill is a personal concern to me. As a result, I am all the more pleased that it will be decided in plenary today. The main points of this package are, on the one hand, measures to avoid relapse in the case of sexual offenders; Enforcement of sanctions and acts in the case of sexual offences; the improvement of the protection of victims of violence in the social area; a major increase in the provision of protection against violence in the system of execution and the improvement of the legal status of victims of crime. In summary, one can outline the stated objective of the second violent package with the aim of improving the protection of victims by force and intensification of the provisions against sexual offences. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Operation of violence is to be protected even better from aggressors in their own four walls by creating a new state of action of continued violence in the StGB. This new practice includes, in particular, the exercise of violence over a longer period of time and the impairment of physical integrity and freedom over a longer period of time. Another focus is the improvement of the prevention of sexual offences. Prevention is to be achieved on the one hand by means of measures to avoid relapses in sexual offenders, such as bans on sexual offenders or judicial supervision of sexual offenders after a conditional dismissal. In addition, in certain sexual offences, criminal intensifications and intensifications are carried out. By the way, the imposition of a life-long criminal offence on certain sexual offences is now possible, when death has occurred. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] There are also intensifications provided for in the Expulsion Act. In particularly serious cases, the eradication can even now be excluded. The second anti-violence law is intended to eliminate the shortages and protective gaps in the intervening orders to protect against violence in the family and in the case of interlocutory orders to protect against interference in privacy – Stalking. One important point is also changes in procedural law. For example, the legal status of the victim in civil proceedings should be extended, the possibility of psychosocial process support should be created as well as the segregated hearing of victims. As far as legal assistance is concerned, there is also the possibility of procedural assistance. It should also be possible for victims to keep their address secret from the opponent. In addition, victims are entitled to an advance benefit in the form of a lump sum for pain payments. The innovations in the fight against child pornography seem particularly noteworthy to me. You know that this is a very important point for me personally. The current level of protection is to be increased. Not only the transmission and storage of child pornography, but also the knowledgeable access to child pornography on the Internet should now be punished. By the way: The Council of Europe Agreement on the Protection of Children of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse also provides for this. Austria is taking a lead in the implementation of this Europe Council agreement, and we can be proud of it with fug and law! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Allow me to make a very personal comment on this subject. We all know that it is a vision to believe that you can completely eliminate the evil of child pornography, but it is a step in the right direction. And I am convinced that it will be more difficult to use child pornography make, make almost impossible, then also for producers becomes more difficult to spread child pornography and to find customers. And that is simply a very, very important step towards protecting our children. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] Now on the subject of experts. There is a need for clear structures and appropriate judicial physicians to be able to function in case of obducts. The structures must ensure that experts are always available, young people are trained and research is carried out. The intended solution in the StPO shall ensure this and at the same time maintain the fundamental principles of the nature of the evidence of the expert. In the StPO, the public prosecutor and the courts were given the opportunity to order either a private expert or a medical institution to draw up opinions and opinions. In the case of an institution mandate, prosecutors and judges may continue to designate a person of their choice who wishes to transfer the opinion. The management of the institute shall follow the request, unless the appointment of an employee is contrary to important reasons. Mr Steinhauser, I would like to explain to you the provisions of § 126 StPO afterwards. [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] As mentioned at the beginning of my remarks, I believe that the second package of protection against violence constitutes a significant, yet effective package, especially in times of the financial crisis, where the idea of moderate budgeting is emphasized everywhere. We do the necessary and at the same time take account of responsible public behaviour. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30194	Mr Mag. Darmann is the next speaker. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30215	Madam President. Estimated Federal Ministers! High house! Justice spokesperson and colleague Ewald Stadler explained and explained the BZÖ's views on the agenda items that have now been discussed. It remains for me, therefore, in the time available to me, only to address a few points more intensively and precisely and to draw out once more those who can also be found accordingly in our amendment proposal, which I then seek further support. This is, on the one hand, the point that is absolutely not understandable to us. In fact, the Federal Government cannot go through the idea of depriving itself, in principle, of a conditional release of detention, namely with regard to sex criminal law. We have also noted very closely the danger posed by sexual offenders in such conditional redundancies, even if there are appropriate supervisory measures on the part of the judicial system. In this context, the new Minister of Justice is also in the process of considering the fact that the SPÖ Justice Minister Berger is also dissuading himself from this inconsistency relief package. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, too, must also be aware of and, as I appreciate you, also contradict the fact that, with this debt relief package, even dozens of sexual offenders have been released to the population in advance, which has also been confirmed in the reply of a parliamentary request from the BZÖ. Another point that needs to be raised and which is very essential to us is that it is basically a exclusion from all sexual penalties. In this case, the Commission will have to It is not understandable that here the Federal Government differs according to the danger of the sexual offence. For us, there is a danger potential that comes from a sexual offender. This is striking for every sexual offender, and that's why every sexual offence a perpetrator has been sentenced to rule out. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That must be stated, because the perpetrator's circle in sexual criminal law must always be identifiable as such; no way passes. Last but not least, another important point for us. They spoke of an introduced ban on sexual offenders in certain areas. The fact is, the government foresees a can-determination: There may be a ban on activities. We clearly demand a must-determination. A sexual offender who has been made firm has nothing to look for in a certain environment of children, in appropriate care facilities. There must be no Cann regulation here, here there must be a must! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In summary, I can only ask the honourable Members to follow our amendment; it is the more consistent way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30309	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30331	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister for Justice Bandion-Ortner has formulated expressly and also decisively what this package includes and what is also contained in her programme. I think that this is good and is also necessary, especially for protection against violence in the family. If Mr Steinhauser is addressing certain issues in his speech, I would just like him to go along with the fact that he has so to speak agreed on the right of initiative to the Member of Parliament and that he actually does not know what he is talking about. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] I also think that this package is a real responsibility and that we also need to think about how we continue to deal with it. In particular, to protect against violence in the family or to protect against interference in privacy, the provisions will be improved here, including the extension of the period of validity of interlocutory orders and the protected group of persons. In particular, violence in the family is an issue that concerns us all, women and men, and I would like to thank the intervention agencies, the women's advisory services, the family advisory services, the work they do, which is not always well paid, is sometimes unthankful and is one of the most important and sensitive work. Of course, I personally would like to see it no longer necessary to discuss this issue here in Parliament, just as it may not be necessary to do so again. March, the women's day, to discuss here, but we are all equal, not only in the field of equality for men and women, also for families, for children, for young and for old.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30377	Mr Lausch is the next speaker. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30400	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Ms. Minister of Justice! High house! Mr Steinhauser – unfortunately he is not here now, but may he be asked to do so – of course, we liberals are primarily for victim protection and not for perpetrator protection. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, it is more likely that the Green Group will have to do so. I only remember the Causa Balluch and the daily demonstrations, smearings of federal buildings, such as the Josefstadt Justice Centre. [[Abg. Oil: What?]] You don't need to nod them now, they were Green-Organized; or was it just a coincidence that the color claws that are on it on the "Josefstadt" are green? – It may be a coincidence, but that’s of course... [[Abg. Are you with senses?]] You can look at it. [[Abg. Oils: That must not be true!]] To colleagues Steinhauser on the other hand: Women's houses are okay, we also visit them. We also visit judicial institutions, and it must be said that Mr Stefan was not quite wrong: Of course, some women benefit from a man’s pre-punishment to extortion him with it; they say they have been beaten, and that is not true at all. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Don't you know what you're saying?]] [[Further calls at SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Well; yes, yes. [[Abg. Oils: Just talk! A little more of it, please! Incredible!]] To the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Of course, we are also very pleased when we think back to the Committee on Justice. There were still real torture-potter noise to hear about the chemical castration of persons. I have, as I have said,... [[Abg. Steibl:... to talk such a fool!]] It is true that it is a medical measure carried out by doctors. In the psychiatry you do this, please, for years with success. You just have to take note of this, don't refuse reality! If you say that there is torture – as happened in the Committee of the ÖVP – then put the torture on the doctor's stand! You have to say that, you just have to say that. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We liberals stand for victim protection and not for culprit protection. This second package of violence goes in the right direction; it is at least a small step in the right direction for us, and we hope it will continue that way. It contains a number of years of liberal claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30525	Mrs Ablinger has now come to speak. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30547	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are adopting the Second Violence Law in the further development of the First Anti-Violence Act, which took place on 1 January. ==References====External links== If, at the time, the central achievement of this law was the rejection of the offender from the home in an acute situation of violence or the extension of protection for women by means of an intervening order, then the essential progress of the second package of violence, which we have decided today and which Minister Maria Berger negotiated during the last legislative period, is the new crime “consuming violence”. Let me hold on to one thing: A violent relationship is based on a cycle, a spiral of violence. It is the actual progress that is being made. It is about the whole of a long-term violence relationship with all its different forms of psychoterrorism, Mistreatment, physical violence, sexualised violence, constant control, restrictions and degradations are both visible and punishable. Ladies and gentlemen, the forms of male domestic violence are unimaginable. The attacks range from ear figs or strokes with hands and fists to the addition of burns. The women are beaten with objects such as armchairs, curtain bars and belts. They are trodden with feet, torn at the hair, strangled or thrown to the ground. All this, Mr Stadler, is not a hormonal question; it is violence and has nothing to do with impulses. Domestic violence, however, is not limited to violations of physical integrity, but it is also about massive restrictions on autonomous living and sexualized violence. Let me give you examples from the advice of the Oberösterreich Violence Center. I would like to join here in thanking Mrs Ridi Steibl for the excellent work done by the centres of violence. Let me report: He controls her social contacts. He controls their phone calls. He tells her when and if she can go out. He wakes her up, he locks her in. He forbids you to make the driver's license. He forbids you to eat; he forces them to eat. He prevents them from sleeping; he forces them to sleep on the ground. He forces them to see pornography. He insults her as a whore. He forces her to be sexual after beating her. – The list could continue. And: The spiral of violence always begins from the beginning. He repents, swears improvement, swears love that he cannot live without them. She remains, forgives, believes him, seeks to blame herself – until the next time. In doing so, the distances are getting shorter and the acts of violence are becoming more brutal, more life-threatening. For women, the consequences of this male violence are enormous. I am not only talking about the violation of physical integrity due to beatings, bone fractures and head injuries, but also about the loss of self-respect for women. I'm talking about sleep and eating disorders, I'm talking about depression, anxiety disorders, alcohol and/or drug addiction and their complete isolation. These women are traumatized. They banish, keep silent, break them – and they try to survive for months, for years, for decades. Some people don't succeed. But some break the silence and turn to a centre of violence, seek help and finally want to show the violent offender, want to get out of this violent relationship. Whoever here – like MEP Stefan – speaks of the abuse of women by law has never been involved in violent history. That those who tell their story in court also find hearing that all that they have experienced and suffered also plays a role and reflects, in their judgment of the perpetrator, that their traumatisation is taken into account, while supporting the Second Violence Act with the new crime. I am glad that we are adopting this law today, and I conclude by saying: Breaking the silence, ending the violence, that's what matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30608	Mr Hübner has now come to speak. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30656	Ladies and gentlemen! Many things have been changed about the law that has many good points. But one thing I have not heard at all, and that is a statement on the item on the agenda 22, namely the law with which this § 69a is inserted into the local and residence law. I'm very surprised. It also surprises me that neither Mr Stadler, who is otherwise verbal, nor his colleagues in the BZÖ, nor the Minister for the Interior, have been here for a while and have considered what that means. It means further massive destabilization of our entire foreign process, especially the suspension process, and it means a burden on the executive, which will continue and significantly reduce the motivation to implement the laws! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look at this, Mrs Colleague, what you think is a great step forward and what you think to be victim protection, which is, in fact, a reduction in security and destabilisation of our legal system! [[Abg. May. Worm: For the victims, yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] These are conditions such as: People whose delay period has expired under the Foreign Police Act – where there is a delay period of one year – are now given the opportunity in § 69a to re-enforce an extension over another legal back door that must last at least six months. [[Abg. May. Worm: In forced prostitution and trafficking!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: In forced prostitution and trafficking! Please say it right!]] Mrs. Colleague! People who claim – unjustly or rightly – to have become victims of a crime that is an ad and, perhaps because of this criminal act, also conduct civil proceedings – you can report again – can withdraw the deportation by relying on it and applying for § 69a para. 1 Z 2. [[Abg. May. Worm: It's about people...!]] However, people whose application has already been rejected may also submit a further application after the expiry of this procedure and after the expiry of the time limits, provided that they do not claim, as it stands here, clearly similar acts. Summary: These are things that colleagues of mine – i.e. lawyers, that is my bread profession – who are well aware of asylum law and who are also active there, put all the instruments in their hands to prevent any execution of foreign police regulations. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you are quite in agreement with these things. [[Abg. Ablinger: We are talking about the victims of violence! We're talking about women as victims of violence!]] I know that there are colleagues among us who are interested in destabilising these provisions and who are happy if we are unable to implement certain legal provisions. I know – but for our part, there is a clear and decisive no!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30755	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill with a desired speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30777	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In May 1997, a milestone was set by the Austrian Parliament, namely the Austrian Anti-Violence Act. Even then, in 1997, the men came up with the idea of spreading clichés, namely clichés about the fact that women would benefit from a anti-violence law: ten days of ban on entry then, three months intervening at the time. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There is also that! Don't deny it, there's also that!]] As long as this cliché exists, we have lost the fight against violence in the family, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have a bit of a feeling that some men are going on the glue with their strategies to explain to them that they are the innocent – as we call it in social work in the anti-violence centres. As long as the perpetrators take no responsibility as long as they do not feel the consequences, the fight against violence in the family is far from over. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then why are you against being locked in?]] The Austrian anti-violence law and the installation of multi-institutional cooperation with justice, executives and non-governmental parties were also a milestone in Europe, as we have already heard. I am now a former employee of the Vienna Intervention Centre – I am therefore from the field; for those who believe we are only Paper-based women – there has been a lot of advertising in Europe for this law on the protection of violence. I have also made a lot of advertising for multi-institutional relations and cooperation, because it is the wheel of partnership that makes it possible to prevent violence in the family. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The close cooperation with the executive and with the feminists was initially not quite easy, but developed quite well. Many possibilities for improvement that have arisen from this cooperation have also been implemented: § 107a StGB, Stalking or persistent persecution, the interlocutory order that goes up to a year – that is, nothing with three or six months, but there we are in the year range, ladies and gentlemen, dear! And the recognition of so-called “high-risk Victims” with the police is always working better. 90 percent of the perpetrators are men – partners, husbands, fathers, stepfathers – and the victims are the women and the children. Protection for women and their children needs consequences in relation to the perpetrator's behaviour, and this must be fully public responsibility. [[Abg. May. Stefan: And the perpetrator, you have to say too!]] For this reason, I would like to make the following amendment tabled by Mr Albert Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, who have already been gratefully distributed. He was briefly explained: Legal process support – which has unfortunately been deleted – for victims who need support in civil law proceedings, and for victims of crimes that violate private life – should be implemented immediately. That is also the request. In general, it is good that the long-term demands of women's homes, violence centres, intervention agencies and women's advisory bodies will finally be implemented. Nevertheless, there are still some points missing. There may be new discussions and debates in this area in the near future, in order to further develop this. This includes, for example, training courses of executives and justice directly through victim protection facilities, the further adaptation of the interlocutory order for extension when it comes to minor victims, or the protection of children from fatherly violence. Children often have to watch the father beat the mother. There is a need – perhaps also through the crime victim law – for free therapy facilities. And it's got to be done quite a lot with the perpetrators, because victim protection doesn't work without culprits. There needs to be a greater expansion of the man-advisor offices, anti-violent trainings and perhaps more convictions, higher convictions in the fight against violence in the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30857	Mr Hagen has now come to speak. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30878	Madam President. Dear ladies on the government bank! High house! Bregenz – fear of a pedophile: “Like lions, two mothers in Bregenz fight for the (soul) will of their daughters. A pre-punished pensioner is said to have harassed the 11 and 14-year-old girls sexually. The Public Prosecutor's Office determines. The man is on his feet.” – A case that I put in the role of because justice was powerless! The fact is that I spoke at a press conference on this subject after the mothers came to me in search of help, because it did not provide for a ban on this repeater by law and this gentleman settled in the largest settlement in Bregenz – with 5,000 inhabitants and correspondingly many families with children. No one knew that until this man approached until he got rid of the children! Here I have seen the need for action; unfortunately, I needed support from the media. In the meantime, this gentleman has been behind bars for a week and a half. After all, he has once again noticed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It shouldn't be like that! That is why the BZÖ has tabled this amendment proposal – it has already been submitted by Ewald Stadler – to which you can all agree with good conscience. I have to say one thing: If you don't agree, you'll excuse yourself for such cases. Apologize for such cases: for traumatic experiences of children, of minors who have traumatic experiences and have been damaged for life! You talked about how important children are to you today at the school discussion. Here you have the chance to take this! Unfortunately, I cannot continue to carry it out because the speaking time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e30918	At this point I would like to say that the amendment tabled by the Green Group has been sufficiently supported, has been presented in the core lines and has already been distributed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31080	Mrs Franz is now speaking with two minutes of desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31101	Madam President. Estimated ministers! High house! Yes, the previous practice in the field of violence has shown shortcomings and shortcomings, which are to be eliminated by today's vote on this Second Violent Package. Much has been said essentially. There is better protection for victims and tougher penalties for sexual offences. I am glad that there is now this long-needed sexual offender file, but not everyone has access or access to it. There are bans on activities and professions for sexual offenders. What I am particularly happy about is that in the future, knowing access to child pornography sites should also be punishable. I now have one more request to make, namely the amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues in this Federal Act, the Second Law on the Protection of Violence, as amended by the Committee's report 106 of the Supplements: "1. In Article V, Z 8a is amended as follows: ‘§ 91 is replaced by the following: 2a inserted: ‘(2a) Whoever participates in a beating or an attack of several in a security area at a major sporting event (§ 49a SPG) can be punished with a term of imprisonment for up to a year or with a fine of up to 360 daily sentences." 2. Article VI is amended as follows: (b) ==References====External links== 4 as follows: ‘(4) The provisions of Section 26 para. 2, 28a para. 1, 32 para. 3, 43 para. 2, 45 para. 1, 47 para. 3, 77 para. 2, 183 para. 2 and 3, 197, 221 para. 4, 410 para. 1, 435, 437, 439 para. 1, 441 para. 1, 485, 498 para. 2 and 516 as amended by the Federal Act, BGBl. I No. Join XX/XXXX with 1. June 2009, the provisions of § 128 para. 2 and 2a as amended by the Federal Act, BGBl. I No. ==References====External links== Octo-ber 2009 in force.’ b) [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does that mean?]] ==References====External links== 6 as follows: “(6) The provisions of Section 26 para. 2, 28a para. 1, 32 para. 3, 43 para. 2, 45 para. 1, 47 para. 3, 77 para. 2, 197, 221 para. 4, 410 para. 1, 435, 437, 439 para. 1, 441 para. 1, 485, 498 para. 2 and 516 as amended by the Federal Act, BGBl. I No. xx/xxx, shall not be applied in criminal proceedings in which the first instance has been passed before its in-force proceedings. However, such a judgment shall be repealed within the meaning of the new procedural provisions.’; 3. In Article VIII, Z 5 is replaced by the following: 1g as follows: ‘(1g) The provisions of Sections 4, 4a, 5 and 7 para. 4 in the version of the Federal Act BGBl. I No. Step xx/xxx with 1. ==References== Sections 4, 4a and 5 para. 2 applies to all convictions based on the in-force-step of the Federal Law, BGBl. I No. xxx, be pronounced.” 4. In Article XI, Z 11 of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 6 as follows: “(6) §§ 3 para. 2a and 9a as amended by the Federal Act, BGBl. I No. ==References== This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31156	The amendment just tabled is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31249	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31272	My esteemed Mrs. Federal Ministers! Madam President. High house! We can be proud of this issue. There is also a lot of consensus today. There has really been a substantial progress. Nearly 97 percent of the claim catalogue in this context is fulfilled. It is about the fact that, in the context of the social area, there are massive measures to combat violence and sexual violence against children in particular. I can only point to – and that has already been mentioned – the criminal framework increases and the offences in the field of child pornography. Above all, it is about not only increasing criminal law, because this alone, we know – and here there are different approaches – would bring nothing at all, but these intensifications are accompanied by a wealth of measures to ensure that the perpetrator not only receives better care, but is also under control and supervision, but sometimes under different accesses than some of the opposition parties see. The victims, and this is the essential part of this package of violence, must be considered in particular. I should like to refer to the government programme, in which a very special priority has been given to this aspect in the field of justice. If we look at the demands, the United Nations resolutions, the EU's demands, the human rights conventions, and also in our own field, for example, the Children's Rights Network, it will be recognized that a wealth of measures will be taken and implemented to prevent action, but also to protect the victims more effectively – I am thinking of the bans on activities that can be pronounced. To increase the criminal framework is a measure; Another important measure is to be assigned to accompanying measures. Here is another replica on the proposal for a chemical castration, which has also been very strongly debated in the Committee. There are also critical articles here – I refer to an article in the publishing house Law and Psychiatry – in which it is critically expressed that massive side effects are expected and that this is actually used for the treatment of prostate cancers. However, all access is wrong. I am still convinced that sexual offences – when you deal with the perpetrator's profile and the perpetrator's psychology, you know that very well – are primarily violent offences that you can't treat with drugs. Another therapy has to be used here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also very important to ensure that the authorities and courts can communicate best networked, Ladies and gentlemen, that all resources are used, and above all that society – for we will not be able to do with the laws alone – proves more civil courage when, in many cases, it is first of all not to look away, but to look and point out and take the party. Especially cooperation between judges, social workers and security authorities, training and training is of central importance. Finally, it is a good and excellent law, and I congratulate all those who have contributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31324	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31348	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to my petition concerning the limitation period in the case of sexual offences which I introduced at the beginning of this legislative period and which is dealt with by this package of non-violence which I particularly welcome. It is implemented that the limitation period is only applied from the 28th century onwards. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== We know cases from our constituencies in which there are those who do not want to go out for a long time, who can't say and express that they have been victims of sexual abuse. I therefore believe that the measure set out in this package is a very important measure. The petition I have given on the basis of 2 000 signatures from my home district Schärding, moved by the efforts of a woman concerned to accept this issue. I am really convinced that it is very important that we deal with this. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for Justice for the importance of this part here, because the damage done in the youth age is never to be compensated for by people who have experienced this abuse. This should also be taken into account here, and I am therefore very grateful that this measure will be implemented here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Not only was the beginning of the limitation period delayed by ten years, but there was also an increase in the criminal framework for sexual criminal offences. It is now an adapted criminal framework that can be said to measure the same thing in the face of justice. We now have the legal requirement that a delinquent who experiences a maximum penalty of over 10 years will extend the limitation period to a maximum of 20 years. That's good, right and necessary, because these crimes belong to the fight. The dark count, ladies and gentlemen, is very high. You'll get that told when you're more intensive about this matter. We are committed to helping all those affected citizens who have experienced such a terrible fate, and therefore this package of protection against violence must be supported in all cases. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31391	Mrs Mag. Grossmann is now speaking. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31412	Madam President. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Domestic violence is probably one of the most disgusting crimes you can imagine. People in their most personal realm often have to endure years of pain, exasperating abuses, accompanied by diffamations and insults. There is no possibility of withdrawal for these people. They feel helpless delivered. As a lawyer of a family and women's advisory service, I am constantly confronted with shaking life stories. Today, colleague Ablinger has also described some of them very impressively, and I see for myself what such violent experiences in affected people result. The constant degradation of man by a trusted person means that this value judgment is so internalized that self-confidence is totally on the ground and the victims themselves are bad and school-based. feel dense and are mentally weakened so that they simply cannot defend themselves. On the contrary! The conduct of the perpetrator is perceived as normal, and the martyrium is taken for years. We also know that economic dependence strengthens the domination of the perpetrator. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The first package of anti-violence measures in the 1990s has already set new standards across Europe, and this is another important step in drawing the right conclusions from the implementation experiences of this first package. Important, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, above all, is the political signal, namely the disregard of every violence in privacy. People are not private property, violence is not private! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] Thank you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who have made a contribution to the state of this law, but above all also the employees of all the victim protection institutions, the women's homes, the intervention agencies, the violence centres, who carry out their duties far beyond their professional obligation, and do a truly valuable job here. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31461	I call Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31482	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The adjustment of the criminal framework in the so-called Second Law on the Protection of Violence is absolutely justified and, in my view, proportionate. Many opposition requests, especially the liberals, have gone far beyond what we will decide today. We have rejected some of these requests, and we will certainly have to talk about others that we have postponed. It is also quite a matter of further discussion. However, it is also intended by the Ministries or the Government parties to evaluate the effects of this law and, if necessary, to make adjustments. The Second Law on the Protection of Violence aims to strengthen the protection of victims in particular. Certainly, in this context, the Section 107b, in which the continued violence is regulated, is a very essential section. It is intended to encourage women to break out of this spiral of violence on their own initiative. Personally, I also believe that it was good – and the colleague Riener, who was no longer present here, pointed out – that it is also part of the protection of victims that it has not come to a more stringent advertising obligation, which has been discussed, and also to protect victims, if this is necessary and necessary. Finally, I would like to address how we deal with offenders when they return to society. They'll come back sometime. There are provisions here that we are taking precautions to protect society, but I also believe that it is important that we give the offenders instruments in order to help them find their way back into society, be it that we offer them therapy, whether we offer the care and companionship after the penalty, perhaps also superior to the conditional punishment. In any case, this is also a measure that can be in the sense of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31515	I now give the floor to Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31539	Mr President. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! As President of the Justice Committee in 1997, I played a decisive part in the First Law on Violence. [[Abg. Petzner: Scandal Minister!]] At the time, it has led to a great paradigm change in police work... [[Abg. Petzner: Are your employees back on the hunt?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A shooting and hunting company is that!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] At the time, there was a great paradigm change in police work, because: If by 1997 the strategy for conflicts and violent conflicts was de-escalation and the satisfaction of the parties, it was possible under the law for the first time that the aggressor was rejected, even from his own home. [[Abg. Petzner: Do you actually have a hunting license?]] This was not easy for the police who were used to doing peace in such actions. She had to learn under this law that she was pointing out the aggressor and not, as until this law, always had the victim to flee. This paradigm change has made the executive excellent through training, through cooperation with the intervention agencies, and the Violence Act is a success story in the field of victim protection. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In 2006 the further development of the Coalition Convention was already consolidated. At that time it was also confirmed that we – at the time that was the working title – were going to create a kind of martyrdom paragraph in order to ensure that violent relations persist over a longer period of time, that is, permanent crimes, and not to let the perpetrator get away with the last blue eye, but that this long-lasting, persistent violence is also to be decreed in the Criminal Code. That's what happened to this novel. Let me refer in particular to the amendments which I am now particularly concerned with as an Interior Minister, namely the changes in the Penal Code and the Criminal Enforcement Act, the Penal Code, in order to take better account of the protection of children from violence, the protection of women from sexual assaults. We'll set up a sexual criminal file. This is therefore to be identified separately in the criminal register in the future. The courts shall report to the Federal Police Directorate in Vienna, where the criminal record is held. There the data are collected and transmitted with judicial measures, orders, judicial supervision as well as certain professional and activity bans, or recorded in the sexual criminal file. Given that there is a significant role to play in monitoring compliance with the judicial requirements and instructions of the place of residence of the person concerned, an automation-aided query must also be ensured in the Central Reporting Register. And so in the criminal register, the current address of residence can always be mentioned, and the competent security authorities will be agreed upon in the event of a change of residence. The availability of this information is then essential, but it is of course also important to ensure data protection. Another objective of the current novel is that, in addition to the courts, the public prosecutors, the security authorities, the youth welfare agencies, the school authorities, and the local authorities' departments and staff bodies will obtain information from the sex criminal file in accordance with specific legislation. Mr Stadler, I know the BZÖ's wish that everyone should be able to get information here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Otherwise it doesn't make sense!]] This, of course, leads to some sort of public prangler. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh, yes, the poor perpetrators!]] The Federal Government has not decided to do so because we do not want to provoke those cases of self-justice, which have also led to assaults on persons who have committed their punishment and have not been blamed for any more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is no even in America!]] In order to protect our children, however, I think it is necessary that young people's well-being and those who have to do with child labour can gain an insight into this. You just have to turn to the youth welfare providers. In the event of convictions for a number of sexual offences, the penalties have been substantially intensified – the Minister of Justice has already carried out – and the time limits have also been extended. [[Abg. Scheibner: He's talking for an hour!]] I think this is justified because we are very often dealing with repeaters with sexual offenders. [[Abg. Petzner: Your employees are repeat perpetrators!]] The fact that the penalties have been increased corresponds to a long requirement of the EIA. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have set a Europe-wide milestone with the Anti-Violence Act in 1997, which has also found successor models in other countries in Europe. I believe that with the further development that is taking place here today, we are again taking this position at the forefront of victim protection, child protection, in protection against violence for the victims. Since most victims are women and children, as a minister, I am very happy that the Ministry of the Interior and its officials can also make a contribution here. [[Abg. Petzner: You have a scandal ministry, along with your employees! That's incredible!]] You have to imagine that from 1997 to 2007, the police intervened over a hundred thousand times because of family violence – a hundred thousand times! – and has declared a ban on entering forty thousand times. [[Abg. Petzner: You from the hunting company, do you even have a waffle?]] Forty thousand times you have been able to help the victims efficiently. And that's why this novel is a good thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31735	I call Mr Pendl.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31764	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are just friendly people, and if it belongs, we thank ourselves. If you're too good to thank you, that's your problem, but not ours. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP. – “Thank you!” - Call at the BZÖ.]] I do not think there is much to add to the statements made by the Ministers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then sit down again!]] You can still scream like that, your argument won't get better. I believe that this legislative act here is first of all the right of this House and of the Members – we do not need to debate whether we have a proposal or an initiative – but cooperation between the two departments and cooperation between the judicial committee and the internal committee in the matter was excellent. And for that – you don't taste it, but that's another story – thank you, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Complaints and bravails at SPÖ as well as applause with the ÖVP.]] It is not going to be more correct, because the 27-year proposal has only been tabled because we have two different dates for entry into force. Our law, which we will debate tomorrow, will be debated on 1. ==References====External links== June. And because we simply wanted to take due account of the new legislative matter in terms of content, we took account of these dates precisely with the 27er proposal and with the amendment proposal. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No one cares about it!]] So in the matter a good law, as in 1997 the first anti-violence law was already a milestone. I am convinced that this is a further extension. And if you were to make fun of yourself – but that we protect children or that we protect women who are exposed to sexual violence and are abused, at least I, gentlemen, would not laugh. You should have at least that much propensity. In this sense, I invite you to give your consent to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31825	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31847	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Justice! Estimated Minister of the Interior! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Before that, I would like to speak on behalf of my colleague, Mr Mag. Stadler. It's far from me to get closer to you, it's far from me to comment on your private relations, just let me know that he might be very helpful: [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the BZÖ]] Between chemical forced castration and the administration of the pill, namely the anti-baby pill, is a small but essential difference. As a general rule, women do so voluntarily. I don't know how you keep it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] Mr. Klubobmann Bucher, I would like to ask you, in the sense of a quality offensive, that you also prescribe the calls to Dobermann-Zauberbildling Grosz in order to make this a little better. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said very much in terms of content, I would just like to make one appeal. As a Parliament, we are doing very well not to abuse the judicial area, the judicial system, as a playing field for policy, to keep justice away from the daily change of policy. That is good, also consensual tradition in this house, and that is also true and good so. That's what we should do. [[Abg. Petzner: This also applies to your minister and your party!]] Protection by law, the Minister said, is one of the guiding motives for the Ministry of Justice under her aegis. And in spite of the usual suspicious statements of words, I find it encouraging that today in this field we will decide consensually, in good tradition, this package of violence protection, the law on violence. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What does “suspecting word messages ” mean?]] The motto “Protection by law” is thus actually available to all citizens. And that's a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31929	The last speech so far has been made by Mr Köfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e31950	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies on the government bank! “A man blows his wife into the air” – “ Rape of a fourteen-year-old by two fifteen-year-olds” – “Messermor in Vienna” – “Shit on Ex Colleagues” – a protocol of death when you read it very carefully. That's relativized, I think, everything that comes here about intermediate calls. But it may also be a script written by the devil today. All of this is not a summary of events of a year, but these are the reports of one day! The question is: What's going on in this world? I myself experienced in my then profession as an official of the Austrian Federal Army, how a woman was sitting in the living room... – Be quiet, colleague Petzner! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] You're a little night active. They don't hear you all day. That night you'll be kind of loud. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: Look at the election result! We have 45 percent, you have 28 percent!]] Go sometime and win a election with any votes. And if you do, we'll talk. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Petzner.]] - Yes, yes. At the time, I had to experience as a young gendarmerie official how a woman had a shear in her hand... [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] You know what, I'll cut off my speech, as the BZÖ seems to have nothing left for this subject. I believe that violence is also expressed by language. I have seen today a bad example of how to deal with a colleague here in the House, Mr Haider of the FPÖ, whom I personally do not know. As Mr Stadler has done today, I must say that I have been so generous today to have to be a Member of Parliament if it becomes so private when it becomes that personal. [[As a result of the SPÖ and the representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] What is an example of our youth when politicians in the House act in this way?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I do not want to continue my speech – and in conclusion, I must say that this package has been a real step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32028	No one is reporting on this. [[Abg. May. Stadler: To the Rules of Procedure!]] Please, Mr Stadler. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Please have a handkerchief for the colleague! He's crying!]] But that was really not a report on the Rules of Procedure. I invite you to put in so much condition that we can do the agenda with great attention. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First: vote on the draft law on second anti-violence law in 106 of the supplements. The following additional or amendments have been tabled: Amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen, amendment by Mr Mag. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer, colleagues, Mr Mag. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, and the amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Scheibner, colleagues. We therefore vote first on the parts concerned by these supplementary and amending proposals, according to series, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, who refers to Articles I.Z.1, 3 and 4. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask for an acceptable sign. – That is unanimously decided. We shall come to the vote on the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, who has an amendment to the Z 1 in Article II. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – The application does not find a majority. He's rejected. Vote on this part of the draft as amended by the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This is decided by a majority. Vote on the additional request from Members Scheibner, ladies and gentlemen with regard to the insertion of Z 1a, 1b, 1c and 3a in Rule V. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – The application does not find a majority. He's rejected. The amendment tabled by Members Scheibner, colleagues and others, on Rule V. Z 6. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – That is unanimous. We shall come to the vote on the additional amendment tabled by Members Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues concerning the insertion of a new Z 7a in Rule V. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Vote on Rule V.Z.8a of the draft law as amended by the amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues. - That's a unanimity. Accepted. In addition, we shall vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Scheibner, Mrs Scheibner and others, which includes the insertion of the following points in Rule V: 8aa, 8ab, 8ac and 9a, 9b and 11a. Who joins this? – This is the minority and rejected. Amendment tabled by Members Scheibner, colleagues on Articles V.Z. 12 and 15. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – It does not find a majority. Rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give them their consent to a sign. – That is unanimously decided. Debates of the European Parliament Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, which includes the insertion of Z 7 and 8 into Article VI. I'm asking for a positive sign. – The application does not find a majority, is rejected. Amendment tabled by Dr. Fichtenbauer, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the deletion of the Z 9a in Article VI. – This is the minority. Rejected. vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm asking for a positive sign. – This is decided by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule VI Z 11, 22, 23 of the draft law as amended by the amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues. I'm asking for a positive sign. – That is unanimously decided. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Scheibner, fellow Members, on Rule VIII Z 2. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – Finds no majority. It's rejected. vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask for an acceptable sign. – That is unanimously decided. Article VIII Z 5 of the draft law, as amended by the amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues are voting. – That is unanimously decided. The vote will now be taken on the additional amendment tabled by Members Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues concerning the insertion of a new Z 6a in Rule XI. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – Finds no majority. It's rejected. Vote on Rule XI Z 11 of the draft law as amended by the amendment tabled by Members Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues. I'm asking for approval. – That is unanimously decided. I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – That is unanimously decided. Third reading: I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft at third reading to give a sign. – That is unanimously decided. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Constitution and Residence Act, including title and entry into 107 of the Supplements. I ask for an acceptable sign. [[Ironic calls to FPÖ and BZÖ, as the SPÖ representatives are only reluctant to stand up from the seats.]] [[Abg. Bitch: Rejected!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Clearly rejected!]] Mr Strache, I have not yet made a statement if you have noticed. . I note that this vote is a majority vote. It is therefore adopted. We'll come to the third reading. I would also ask for the third reading to be approved. – This is decided by a majority. Vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 108 of the supplements. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – This is decided by a majority. Vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 109 of the supplements. I'm asking for approval. – This is also decided by a majority. [[23:28:41]] 25. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (89/B._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Law of Laws, the Introductory Law on Civil Procedure, the Civil Procedure Code, the Labour and Social Courts Act, the Extraordinary Law, the Rules of Procedure, the Introductory Ordinance, the Law on Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, the Law of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Law, the Law of Law of Laws of Laws of Laws, the Law of Law of Laws of Procedure, the Law of Law of Law of Procedure, the Law of Law of Law of Law of Laws of Law, the Law of Law of Law of Law of Laws of Laws of Law, the Law of Law, the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Laws of Laws of Laws of Law of Law of Laws of Law, the Law of Laws of Laws of Law of Law of Law, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of Civil Procedure, the Law of Civil Procedure, Law of the Law of Civil Procedure, the Law of the Law of the Law, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of Civil Procedure of the Law of Civils, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of Civils of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Civil Procedure, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Civil Procedure of the Law of
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32143	We're coming to the 25th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32170	Mr President. Values Women Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The current Civil Procedure Novelle 2009 is intended, inter alia, to take account of two EU regulations. This is about the introduction of a European reminder procedure and a European procedure for minor claims. The European Mahing Procedure pursues three main objectives: first, a simplification and acceleration of cross-border procedures relating to undisputed civil or commercial claims; Secondly, a reduction in procedural costs; and Thirdly, to enable the free movement of European payment orders in the Member States, by laying down minimum rules, in respect of which the Interim proceedings in the Member State of enforcement, which have so far been necessary for recognition and enforcement, shall be withdrawn. This European reminder procedure is an additional and optional alternative for the applicant. That is to say, the applicant is free to continue to decide on the procedures provided for in national law. The Regulation on minor claims, the so-called Bagatelle Regulation, ensures that cross-border disputes in civil and commercial matters with low contention can be settled faster and more cost-effectively than before. The EU Regulations, which have been incorporated into the Civil Procedure Code, constitute an important step in the area of judicial cooperation between Member States in civil and commercial matters. Today, we will decide that these regulations are part of the civil process system. This is a good thing that we are happy to give our consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32222	Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32243	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would like to express my views on the civil procedure issue, which is very welcome, and to comment on two points, particularly those relating to rental law. Here, above all, the judicial termination, § 33 para. 1 with a clarification innovation – it is about a link with the ZPO, which is reached here. The purpose of this provision is to: If the tenants do not comply with the notice of termination at the time of delivery of the written termination, i.e. if this termination arrives too late, the termination will not have to be made once again in the future, but it will be charged for the next appointment. So far, there have been different regulations here. This novel provides a clear improvement for the tenants, who are to be welcomed explicitly. I would also like to highlight the rules on sign interpreters. This is a really great improvement for deaf parties, which is achieved with it – to say this, I think is particularly important. In Austria, some 8,000 to 10,000 people are deaf and a few more thousands are highly deaf. These people use the sign language very often. Today's decision will make it possible for sign language interpreters to represent and interpret their parties not only in court but also in discussions with the lawyer at the expense of the federal government. This is a truly significant relief for deaf people in access to their right. My group will vote in favour of this proposal, which brings a number of improvements to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32286	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32308	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The BZÖ Group will also agree to this government proposal, not least because of the national and international improvement of the process economy. Some of the points to be highlighted positively have already been raised, and I would like to stress two further points. On the one hand, § 64 ZPO concerning procedural assistance. It is well known that lawyers appointed to the Procedural Officer often only receive the information they need to pursue law or to defend them by means of an interpreter. The fact is that up to now these lawyers had to cover the often significant costs from their own pocket. There will now be a provisional advance of these often considerable costs from the State. The interpretation of the sign language has already been addressed, so I do not need to discuss it more in detail now. The fact is, however, that in the field of interpreters and experts there will also be a quality improvement in the sense, since the second entry in this list of interpreters and experts will only take place for five years in the future, not for ten years as until now. This means that quality management or quality control is carried out every five years in this area. Finally, of course, last but not least, § 252 ZPO, which includes national implementation of the Regulation establishing the European Mahing Procedure. We know it's 12. It entered into force on 1 December 2008 and will now simplify the reminder procedure at European level. In this sense, as has been said, this proposal will be approved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32347	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Steinhauser. Speaking time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32368	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We welcome the civil process novels, this time without sluggishness, to the fullest extent. I believe that international enforcement improvements are useful, good and correct in the light of developments in the European Union. We are particularly pleased to see the expansion of the sign interpretation area, namely the communication between the parties and the lawyers. This is why we are particularly pleased because we will soon have an deaf representative in the House. Helene Jarmer is expected to be praised as a green Member in June. Then there will also be a lot of things going on to the High House. [[Abg. Stache: Let’s see if you can make the move into the European Parliament!]] It also means a change of direction for us when a deaf person will discuss with you and you. This will be a big challenge. I believe that this will also make it aware that there is a need for particular sensitivity in this area. In many respects, further reform is likely to be necessary. That's why I'm glad that the ZPO novelle comes before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32403	Mrs Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32424	Mr President. High house! In view of the advanced time, I do it very briefly. [[General condolences.]] Today's decision on the 2009 Civil Procedure Novelle will improve and simplify access to justice for many people. All measures leading to an improvement in access to justice are also used in the longer term by Austria's economic location. In this sense, I would also like to understand this decision. The 2009 Civil Procedure Novelle contains a wide range of measures to implement Community legislation; I refer here to the European reminder procedure and the European Bagatelle procedure. For the first time, this is where procedures are being established that lead to direct enforceable enforcement titles across Europe. There are known to be more and more cross-border disputes. Another essential point is the strengthening of legal hearing. Recursions should now be two-sided. Furthermore, deaf and highly deaf people should be provided free of charge with a sign interpreter. In the adoption of interim orders in the maintenance field, there is currently a division of competence between judges and lawyers, which does not appear to be appropriate. The Civil Procedure Novelle 2009 is now intended to expand the competence of the legal caretaker in the maintenance area. In particular in maintenance matters, the lawyer has indisputably the necessary expertise. That is why the novel provides that the lawyer has to decide on interim orders – that is, if he is already responsible for the main issue. In the field of the Expert and Interpreting Law, the draft provides for a reduction of the current ten-year registration to five years in the jurisdictional expert or interpreter list. This is a further step towards quality assurance in the field of experts and interpreters. Overall, in order to say it briefly, the 2009 Civil Procedure Novelle represents a bundle of diverse and heterogeneous measures that will ensure the economic course of civil proceedings and will lead to significant improvements for individual citizens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32479	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32500	Mr President. Ms. Minister of Justice! Mrs Bundesminister, I can only agree with your last words: I, too, am convinced that through this innovation there is a wealth of improvements for citizens; we have a very clean implementation of two EU regulations. I would like to highlight the following aspect: In the sense of the procedure economy, it is in favour of great wisdom from the Ministry of Justice that the European reminder procedure should be concentrated at a court where, so to speak, a corresponding centre of competence is created and that the procedure should not be fragmented in countless district courts. This is certainly for citizens. This allows me to thank you for this bill – and to end my speech again, as I promised to save speaking time, because today, as I said, I have transferred the speaking time to my first speech, just outrage over the arsons of the rating agency Moody’s.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32538	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32560	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already expressed the concerns in general; I agree with what they have said. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: All said!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would just like to focus briefly on something that has not yet been mentioned, namely the sentence: § 73a and heading are repealed. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This means that data protection rules are applied; personal execution data are secured against abuse. I have already said it in committee: These are data to which special groups of persons in court had access, namely lawyers and notaries – and more and more of these data were found in credit quality information, especially in the case of information. In this context, there were a number of complaints, including the Austrian Data Protection Council. Therefore, Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to thank you very much, as Vice-President of the Austrian Data Protection Council, for this measure. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is the amendment, and I am seeking to agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32628	This request is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32686	The last speaker was: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32707	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said on this Civil Procedure Novelle – only not yet by me – so I do not say anything about it, except: [[Congratulations and Bravorufe at the ÖVP]] The European Mahing Procedure and the European Bagatelle Procedure should give us a little thought. Within Europe, it will be possible to make procedures as simple as we would have used in Europe with very simple uniform and standardised forms, in compliance with all human rights provisions and other claims to legal protection. We need a lot more areas where work and economies in Europe are getting easier. Therefore, in these areas too, an unreserved commitment to the EU or not to let go of it in our efforts. On the other hand, the considerations about these regulations should make us think about what we are still doing in Austria in superfluous bureaucracy. In the context of the regulations underlying this law, how much senseless, never-ending, we continue to maintain any useful bureaucracy to the detriment of employment and growth in this small area. As long as we have one. More than ever in Europe in the economy, we should therefore implement this nationally in Austria. I'll give you a few examples. If lecturers who teach at a specialist university only one hour a year become employees and the total of all staff of a specialist university are used to calculate how many changing places the university must have, and if a single university in Austria has to provide changing places for 600 employees due to these provisions, if our companies have reporting obligations that employ a worker in part a half a working day, and every week, I wonder if we can still do this in this economically difficult situation! [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does that have to do with the ZV-Novelle?]] We should also consider the principle of audiatur et alta pars, which we are strengthening today in the recursive procedure, with regard to many entrepreneurs, whom we now take far too much of freedom of movement, namely with regard to the subject-specific legislation. We should, as it were, knock out our laws, whether we really want to afford such a red tape in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32763	There's no one left to speak here. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 114 of the Supplements. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – I ask you to take the seats! The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment relating to Articles III and XIV. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by those Members. In case of approval, I ask for a sign. – That is unanimously decided. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft law in third reading, I ask for a sign. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. [[23:48:05]] 26. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (12D.B._Other Organiser Declaration by the Republic Austria on the adoption of the commonwealth accession Bahamas to the Hague Convention on Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction (115 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32835	We'll get to 26. Agenda item. In view of the fact that there is no statement of speech, I shall immediately vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[23:48:44]] 27. Point Government template: Declaration by the Republic Austria on the adoption of the accession of the Republic of San Marino to the Convention on Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction (49 d.a.) (in accordance with § 28a GOG no committee preliminary advice)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32875	We're coming to the 27th. Agenda item. In view of the fact that there is no mention of a word, we shall proceed to the vote immediately. Whoever agrees to the approval of the State Treaty, I ask for a sign. – unanimously adopted. [[23:49:41]] 28. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment 513/A by Dr Peter Sonnberger, Mag. Ruth Becher, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the rental law, the property law, the housing property law 2002, the housing public utility law and the heating bill (Wohnrechtsnovelle 2009 – WRN 2009) (122 d.B.) 29. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment No 486/A(E) by Mr Josef Bucher, Members and colleagues on the adjustment of inflation to the indicative interest rate (123 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32933	We now come to points 28 and 29 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The first speaker is Mr Tadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e32957	Mr President. High house! The amendments to the rental law regarding the energy card have succeeded in a good balance, especially because the resulting costs may not be charged to the tenants by means of the operating costs. Now a few words as a member of the building committee here in the house. This is a picture from down here. [[In the course of his remarks, the speaker holds several photos that document the poor building condition of the house.]] [[Abg. Amon: Do you show it to us too?- Oh, my God!]] Mr President, Madam President Prammer is not here now, we should actually get some air from down here, but I see that there are really people inside here already sniffing. Several points were made about the condition of this house today in verse. But again: The condition of this house is more than bad! I even have a picture of a bulge up here. [[towards glass roof looking]] [[Abg. Grosz: He could come down once!]] It's probably going to rain in the hall again next time – and maybe it'll say: Get out of the way! You're in danger of crash! Mr President, can we still feel comfortable in this House? [[Abg. Schopf: The speaking time is already over!]] – Thank you, but probably so for you. The tomorrow edition of the “Kronen Zeitung” reads: Maintenance instead of luxury adoption. And on top of that: “Suddenly there is no revenge from the roof for Mr. Strache!” – A tremor, thank you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is a so-called shaking rhyme!]] The corresponding motion for a resolution was adopted by a large majority, with the exception of the votes of the H.C. Strache Group. That's why I mention that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33062	I call Mr Sonnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33084	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! For clarification only: The reconstruction of the Parliament building is not regulated by this new residential law, but rather by reference rents. [[Abg. Grosz: It could come down the bulge!]] ==References== April 2009 we should have increased it by 3.2 percent, which would have meant an increase of €192 per year for a €500 rent. Since we have decided to increase this type of rent at a distance of two years, the tenants will save up to 1. April 2010 at a 500-€ rental exactly 192 €. I believe that this is in the interest of the tenants, but on the other hand it must also be said that in these negotiations it is very precise that it is important to maintain the value-resistance of the rent. – This is the second point, and I can say that this compromise is quite reasonable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is also a definition of the cost of the issue of the energy card; this has been a necessary clarification. This new residential law also allows for the determination of the amount of the deposit in the extradition proceedings and also regulates the presumption, deposit security and insolvency security of this deposit. Furthermore, a review of the correctness of the content of the calculation of heating costs in the extradition procedure will be possible. So, in total, a very positive innovation, and I am also very pleased that it will be carried by all the political groups. I would like to express my thanks to the Minister of Justice and her cabinet, as well as to Dr Stabentheiner of the Civil Law Section for the careful cooperation. They were in part active as mediators, because it was not so easy to reach a compromise here, but I think this compromise can be seen in the interests of tenants and landlords.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33130	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33168	Mr President. Dear members of the government! High house! I would like to say on the subject of heating costs: Stop the wrong square meter bill! Where consumers are assembled, these should be used for accounting, because we do not at all realize that someone who is careful to handle energy comes to the handcushion when his neighbors are wasting energy permanently. Therefore, for the future, we want to have the rule that the Vienna energy and district heating system for new plants that are being built will be able to install consumer counters everywhere, so that the billing becomes fairer. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now to our request for an inflation adjustment of the indicative interest rate. In view of the fact that, from a legal point of view, it does not seem useful to amend the applicable legal situation annually or on a given occasion, it is appropriate to seek a sustainablely effective regime. In order to keep the price of the data subject as low as possible, the benchmark law should be amended to ensure that the benchmark interest rate is increased only if the consumer price index has increased by at least 5 percent since the last increase time. Thus, there will be an increase at the latest every two years, which we think is right, as each tenant saves money. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, on an important point in the regulation of the broker commission. We should reduce the broker commission scheme from three monthly rents to two monthly rents. The following motion for a resolution by Mr Markowitz and Mr Bucher: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth is asked to send a draft bill to the National Council, which limits the commission claim of real estate agents for the placement of flats with unlimited rental contracts with two months' rent and, in the case of the placement of flats with temporary lease contracts, to one month's rent. In addition, the Federal Minister for Finance is asked to implement key controls to prevent tax evasions in the field of real estate brokers.’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33237	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33294	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33316	Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased about the new residential law in 2009, and I am aware that various stakeholders have specific concerns about the right of residence and therefore it is very difficult to meet all these wishes and to find a solution to these different interests. The amendment which has been tabled today has been very laborious and has already been mentioned by a colleague. Very intense negotiations have been held. I too I would like to thank all participants in the negotiations: the experts of the coalition partner, our own experts, but also, above all, the relevant officials of the Ministry of Justice, as well as the Minister of Justice and the staff of their cabinet. It is very gratifying that through this novel, very many tenants – especially in these economically difficult times – will save themselves, with this today's decision, especially those who have rental contracts according to the benchmark value, in the future, housing costs. Adjustments to reference rents will be made every two years, around the annual average of inflation. This new scheme saves the tenants money – unlike the previous increases. According to the calculations of the Chamber of Workers, this is about €200 per year for a 700-€ nettomite, which can be saved. It is also very important that there is no increase in rent this year. This new residential law contains other points which are very important to us: the recovery of the deposits and the verification of the correctness of heating costs that can be claimed in future in an extradition procedure, without the risk of cost to tenants. The right of residence is an important first step, but there are other essential areas that also require a new regime. In this context, I would like to mention, in particular, the cost of maintenance and maintenance work, the limitation of deposits and broker commissions, as well as the revision of the heating billing law. Ladies and gentlemen, I am optimistic that with the coalition partner these upcoming issues can be answered quickly and that the right of residence will be better adapted to the needs of tenants in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33364	The next one is Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33385	Ladies and gentlemen! The present proposal contains many important amendments, which we also welcome. However, experts – and perhaps the whole law was passed a little too quickly, it happened within 14 days – tell us that we finally made the whole thing too fast and create a dead right here, because the application, as it is here, is partly not feasible in practice. Because Mr Cap repeatedly says that the opposition is not just to criticise, we are also proposing an amendment. Since, as I have heard, Parliament's management also distributes this request, it is enough if I only explain it on the essential points. On point 16b of the Law on Rental Law we want in Abs. To amend the second sentence, it reads as follows: ‘If, as a form of the deposit, a sum of money has been agreed and passed on, the landlord shall install the deposit on a savings book, electronic savings form or equivalent fruit and, upon request, inform the tenant thereof in writing.’ Because what the government proposes is that this form of savings, which is in place in the application, is actually not available at all. In the second paragraph, the word ‘failure of other agreements’ is to be preceded by the fact that a direct return of the deposit after the termination of the lease is not always practicable. It may also be in the interest of the tenant if an agreement is only valid a month later because, for example, the tenant himself can still carry out rehabilitation measures and then get the deposit back. In Abs. 3 is replaced by the word “caustion” by the word “causation”. The deadline laid down in § 49 shall be until 31. ==References====External links== And the energy ID according to § 20 para. 3a shall be formulated in such a way that it must be performed in any case in order to avoid disputes within ownership communities. As we have said, we believe that these changes would be more practical and we would be pleased if we could allow them to be introduced so that we do not create a dead right here, so that it will become practical and can be implemented in practice. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why is that dead right?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Why can't this be done?]] Because Mr Cap repeatedly says that we do not make any requests from the opposition: I have heard this morning from my colleague, Mr President, that a lot of reasonable ideas are in his drawers. These are probably the ideas of the opposition, which he shakes and which are then hidden. I invite Colleagues Cap: Go to colleagues stupidly and dig out the opposition applications! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33440	The amendment is sufficiently supported, duplicated and distributed, explained in the key points and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33613	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33634	Ladies and gentlemen! I feel moved back a little bit by a year, to March of 2008. Same image: Nearly before an exorbitant increase in rents there is here a novel to prevent the worst. We said the work was then. It has been decided, if you remember, that: At that time, December inflation was always decisive for the target rate increase. The December inflation was very high at the time, so it was said to take the average annual inflation. We already said: Well, maybe in a year, the average annual inflation is higher than December inflation. Well, that's exactly what happened! We remember: There was record inflation in autumn. December-Inflation 2008 would be lower. Now we're standing here again, and again it's piecework. What kind of solution is proposed this time? – In principle, the solution is two years of gallowing. Next year, the record inflation from last year will be charged to tenants in full hardness on the rental rate. Then, when the economic crisis that hits people the most, the rents will be raised properly! I therefore believe that if you look at the framework conditions, you should seek more sustainable solutions. Of course, we will agree again this time, because it is better to move the whole thing up than to increase the rents now. But it is piecework, and we should say goodbye to this piece of work, even if we look at the framework conditions of recent years. From 2001 to 2006, rents increased by 20 percent. Inflation was 9 percent and wages rose by 10 percent. [[Abg. Amon: What is the proposal?]] This means that more and more shares of household income are spent on rents. It's not targeting. [[Abg. Amon: What is the proposal?]] What is the proposal? – I would like to tell you, colleague. The proposal is that we generally review the indicative model that we are moving towards a model in which more transparency is guaranteed in rental interest rates. In other words, it is relatively clear what supplements and discounts there are, that maximum heights are clearly defined and that the maximum surcharges are defined in total, so that these arbitrary rental interest rates – which have caused exactly this 20 percent increase – are undermined by the indeterminability of the law. However, further steps are necessary. These include a shattering of operating costs, this regulation of maintenance obligations according to the OGH judgments – everything is still open – as well as all regulations that make it difficult for the choice of housing more flexible. We require employees to be flexible enough to change their jobs and possibly accept another place of work, but there are still restrictions on this flexibility in the rental law. I'm just calling a few keywords: The fee is still open. I know that is not part of your responsibility, but of the Minister of Finance, but it has already been promised and has not been held. It is also about limiting broker commissions. We will agree with the request made by the BZÖ, which is a correct approach. It limits the mobility of tenants and also includes a limitation of deposit payments. While the deposit payments are regulated here, there is no need to limit the extent and the amount of the deposits. If you were to chain this package, you could, I think, get hold of the rental explosion in approaches. What is certainly not going on is that 30, 40 or 50 percent of household income goes on rent. This does not make sense in terms of economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33684	Next speaker: Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33705	Mr President. High house! With the 2009 residential law novel, an agenda is on the agenda, which affects particularly sensitive areas in economically difficult times. I am therefore pleased to say that this novel is a reasonable package as a whole and that it preserves legal certainty for all the groups concerned, namely tenants, landlords and also home owners. According to the current benchmark system, the indicative values relevant to the rental rate limit are currently at 1st each. ==References== Since the entry into force of the anti-equity law of 2008 it is no longer the December value of the previous year, but the annual average of the previous year. The development of the consumer price index 2000 in 2008 would be without interference by the legislator by 1. On April 4, 2009, an increase of 3.2 percent. ==References== In April 2009, there was no increase in interest rates, which is also due to the economically difficult times mentioned. In 2009, the residential law novelle provides that the guidelines for renting interest rates are to be evaluated only every second year, each on 1 January 2009. April. The annual average of the consumer price index 2000 is expected to be decisive. ==References====External links== ==References== The government's programme is designed to avoid too frequent rental interest increases. We now achieve this goal by increasing the distance to two years. This is a solution that takes into account both the interests of the tenants and also preserves the value and value of the rental interest, i.e. also the interests of the landlords. I would also like to make it clear: I do not wish to change this law every year. I want this to be a real long-term solution! The following has been said about the security deposit. It will now be possible to request the deposit back in the dispute. In addition, after the novelle, the deposit is protected from an insolvency risk of the landlord. To the cost of the energy card: Provisions are now being introduced which regulate this application of costs, and legal certainty is now being provided in this area too. I would like to mention it very briefly: The 2009 residential law novel, which has preceded very intensive discussions between the two coalition partners, represents a truly reasonable package that provides legal certainty for tenants, landlords and homeowners in a very sensitive area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33760	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33781	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A great deal has already been said about the importance of this amendment, which we decide today, by my previous speakers. It seems to me that it is important to point out once again that this is also about value-reliability and security of value. It is precisely a consequence of inflation that we do not, of course, abolish it with this law. I believe that it is important to reject this as a principle that in many areas – from wages to many taxes and various prices, even to the rental area – the value-resistance is only safeguarding purchasing power and does not increase renting; although a nominal, but not one in reality, as far as the purchasing power of this rent is concerned. Therefore, as I think, a good compromise has been found between the one, the theoretical pole, and the one that adjusts the rent to inflation every month – there is now a longer period of two years, which, as it were, also brings a profit for the tenant, who expresss himself quite specifically in numbers, we have already heard of this profit of about 150 to 200 €, depending on the amount of the rent – and, on the other hand, the concern of maintaining the value-resistance. This is quite, very important, because it is always about seeing the common. In the end, tenants and landlords are in a boat. It is about providing accommodation, also receiving it from the owners' receipts, and on the other hand, on the part of the tenants, to benefit from this housing stock and from the good maintenance status as well. I think it's right to put this forward. It is a pity that it is always tried to beat political change on the back of tenants and landlords, on the back of this group with a common interest. We should resist this temptation and find, as here simply justified, good solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33820	Mr Kirchgatterer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33842	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very pleased that we have succeeded in dealing with the present legislative amendments and today we are presenting them for decision. For many people in our country, the cost of renting is a large fraction of their fixed costs, a lump that is difficult to deal with in a tense economic situation, in an economically difficult time. As a result of the agreement reached, the index adjustment takes place instead of 2009 only in 2010, which is also beneficial in the medium term. It concerns a considerable number of households. In the committee responsible there was a broad agreement, far beyond the coalition. This is also in line with the Government Convention. Long-term renting, living in the quiet is extremely important at this time, and rapid measures such as these are particularly needed. All activities relating to employment are also particularly needed. Housing and housing renovation are very job-intensive. These investments benefit not only the construction sector directly, but also the wide range of construction industries. Thermal renovation, new construction and general renovation bring work to small and medium-sized enterprises, and this on site, they bring work to the skilled workers on site. They are effective and strengthen the regional labour market. I would also like to mention the positive contributions made by federal states, cities and municipalities, the social grants from housing support, which lead to quality and sustainability improvements. I'll finish. Housing and renovation are essential factors for the labour market. The development of rental law is and remains an important concern for us. Today's decisions are therefore an important and successful step.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33879	Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33900	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mrs. Minister, your word in God's ear! I believe that your first participation in a plenary debate today, as it were, will show that your hope of reaching long-term solutions will become more or less obsolete in view of an economic situation in which we certainly want to take significant social relief measures for next year. I dare to say that already today. The problem – Mrs Minister, let me say that! – in the case of this relatively complicated lease law situation, it is only the fact that we have the benchmark value with all the surcharges and discounts always as dead right. If you read the different real estate pages, housing search pages or housing offers pages, then you will see that some rents move especially in the area of Vienna beyond any indicative dimensions and super supplements, simply because here the so-called market rules. Especially from this point of view, these guidelines, so to speak, not calculated according to the legal regulations – these are normally rental-adapted to the market – the price increases of 5 percent will be socially unbearable next year, if they remain at this 5 percent. Then we'll see each other again, and then we'll have to argue again: Yeah, there's a balance. That's why this is always our plea: Really make nails with heads! You have now started, but you should actually start with the whole rental right where Minister of Justice Michalek has convened a seminar in Laxenburg in the 1990s. Since all legal experts in the complex area have very clearly and clearly articulated that we need a general harmonisation, away from this complicated regulation and this piecework to clear rules. Mrs Minister, you have been guilty of it in this area so far. I'll give you a little more time because you're new. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You also had to improve the building ID. If we had made a proper arrangement immediately, with the clear declaration of who has to pay it, we could have saved the part today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33943	Mrs Franz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33964	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, this new residential property is a common compromise between the interests of the landlords and the tenants. I think we can congratulate those who have done this. If you know that these interests are often miles apart, it is a good result that we have found here. I thank all those involved in the arrival of this package, and I am pleased that we are adopting this law today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e33992	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34034	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is indeed the case, as Mrs Minister said: It's a very sensitive matter. Whoever keeps talk from us and invites citizens to consult will find out or find that at least half of the visitors you have are tenants with their problems. It's actually that we always have to talk about two rents. One is the normal main rental we are talking about today when it comes to the issue of rental interest raising. The second area is the area of operating costs, and in operating costs, it is also the second important part to include energy efficiency. It is gratifying that we are suspending this year the increase in rent rates, as far as 350 000 households are concerned. For this you will have to check out next year – I also believe that you will have to check it again – which is the case there. It seems important to me that the receipt of the deposit payments and the verification of heating charges be made that in the future the leaser will be able to make the out-of-court arrangements with the requested or related agreements. It is important that the tenants are not referred to the legal path. It is also important – and I would like to stress this – that the area of heating cost accounting is not yet crucial, however, because it is only about the correctness of the content. We need to move from square meters to effective heating requirements as soon as possible. This is where technical development has progressed so far that not only the newer but also the old apartments will have to be involved. I hope that this will finally be taken into account in a new regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34074	Next speaker: Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34095	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! My preliminary speakers have already presented the benefits of the new housing rights and their state of life. One thing is important to highlight: Especially in economically difficult times, as we are currently experiencing, it is not only important for the tenant that he does not increase so quickly, but also for the landlord, for investors, yes, for the entire real estate industry to be able to plan and operate. They must be able to rely on the legislator and must not be afraid that the provisions will change every year. That is why we have taken the right step here. It was mentioned in the Committee's discussion that it could have been discussed longer and reviewed longer. The Minister explained why this was not possible in this case. Circumstances are clear, and it is also right that we implement this quickly. In this sense: A broad consensus is good and everything is fine.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34122	Next speaker: Mr Faul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34144	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Mrs. Minister! There is nothing left to do about the subject of long-termism and the annexation of the considerations. Mrs. Federal Minister! We have talked in the Committee about the need to develop a certain sensitivity in this new legislative process, and we also need to take on a number of other factors. We need to see how construction cost indices have changed, we need to look and perhaps also the Court of Auditors to see how revenue has changed in relation to rental costs. There are some examples. What really happens to the indicative values? It's true what Mrs. Moser says. I heard that yesterday: Vienna has one of the lowest indicative values in itself, we are very, very strongly represented in the upgrading process, but almost not in the reduction process. Mr Donnerbauer, this system will also be overtaken once if people simply can't pay the rents anymore. Then what is the master of the house doing? That's where you have to go in the middle. And if you find a law, then it should be one that lasts for the longer term and which is also very fair.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34176	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34197	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Promised, held – under this motto you could also look at the residential novels in 2009. We have set ourselves the goal of easing people in difficult times. This is done with the new rental right. The art in matter is actually to take account of the interests of landlords and tenants alike, and a viable compromise has been found. This applies to the indicative adjustment, to the energy ID and also to the security deposit. All in all, it is a innovation that is compatible, understandable and balanced. Above all, it gives tenants and landlords legal certainty. In this sense, we are happy to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34225	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law on residential property novels 2009 in 122 of the supplements. Mr Vock, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Vock, fellow Members, which refers to Article 1(2) and (7) and Article 3(1). Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who join him. – That is unanimously decided. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. – This too is unanimously applied to the decision. We'll come to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign. – This is also accepted at third reading. Opinion on the request from the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 123 of the supplements. – This information shall be given unanimously. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Markowitz, ladies and gentlemen, on the reduction of broker commissions and effective measures to prevent tax evasions in this area. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. [[00:27:16]] 30. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Procuratorate of Vienna (GZ 25 St 407/08i) for approval of the official persecution of the Deputy to the National Council Mag. Dr. Martin Graf(93) d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34326	We arrive at the 30th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first word is that of colleague Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34353	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The questions raised by the Third President, Martin Graf, are divided into two points. One question is whether there is a political link or not. The second is how generally the judicial authorities have dealt with the principle of immunity in this procedure. First of all, the first question: I have withdrawn an article from the “standard” by a woman named Luise Ungerboeck, a “light form” of “objective journalism” in Austria, which meant that if Graf was actually interested in information, he would have long been the public prosecutor, because justice has been covering for two years. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] The perfide on this is just that Dr. Martin Graf had no idea of the procedure at all! So that is, Dr. Graf is accused of doing nothing – and that, although he did not know! In this way, journalism can really be brought to the fore when it comes to defaming a Member of the Liberals who still has the right to vote. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This also fits in with the political line of one group or another, of which some documents have been removed from the clubs, which clearly state that it is a matter of “adapting” the political competitor accordingly; then there will be something going on. It is not a question of whether Martin Graf is guilty in the criminal sense or not on this item in the agenda. This is not explained here, although the principle of prejudgment is not exactly foreign to this House. And if I look at the Green Group right now, it has nothing to do with chance, but that is unfortunately going and going on in its group. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am sorry that I do not welcome her “old master”, my colleague Pilz, today, because I could not see here. [[Abg. Krainer: Prejudices to the liberal are completely foreign, as you know!]] I now come to speak of what has happened in concrete terms. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] - Right, colleague Krainer! The SPÖ has always been quite loose with pre-conceptions in this case. That's right! I'm sorry I almost forgot you, but your statements were too insignificant and not really serious. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As far as the question of the political context is concerned, I would like to point out that in this Republic, including in close-to-state establishments, it is obviously a good thing that declared liberals are banned from working. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] – Nothing else can be done if a chairman of the Supervisory Board says that a free science speaker has lost nothing in this company and he therefore wants this liberal to be released from the holding – and this, although he had a contract as a lawyer. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of a mandate, the exercise of the active and passive right of election as grounds for dismissal, as the chickens really laugh! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, this is now likely to be your political “basic consensus” – and now more and more people in our country are getting involved in what media and so on have developed professional and non-professional hatz against the liberals. That's the standard, as it were, right now. There is nothing else in this case: an anonymous ad – and out of it pre-condemnifications are based. And it is also a question of rejecting the political context, although it clearly incriminates the release and the consequences that follow, namely an out-of-court agreement. Return now to the issue of immunity. The public prosecutor's office in Vienna meant – when the whole thing came out that was determined – that: Against Dr. Graf it has never been determined in concrete terms; all these are just general questions, quite a general investigation! But I'm already asking the question of the laws of logic, because: How to do a procedure, namely, on 4 May. November 2008, against Dr. Martin Graf, because he's a national councillor, although there was no procedure at all?- Oh, my God! I assume that you have had the opportunity, in particular, in the immunity committee, to study this criminal act thoroughly. And you may well have noticed that there was a criminal proceedings against Dr. Martin Graf, who was terminated in 2008 because Dr. Graf is a member of the National Council. But that was Dr. Graf already in 2006! Didn't anyone notice that? So there were not only preliminary surveys on the part of the prosecutor's office, but this act had in between even a U-number, an investigative court number. That is, there have already been preliminary investigations. But all of this, as it was said, was nothing concrete. However, the other parties involved are already: They even agreed that there were experts that experts were appointed, so they could have long called their defenders – but only Dr. Graf did not, because there is only 4th. He is a member of the National Council! ==References== In November 2008, it is said that you actually have a little hoppa in this act that you should apply for an extradition in this. No, it lasted until the 29th century. ==References====External links== February 2009 finally gave an extradition request – but no, not a "delivery proposal", because the formulation of the prosecution is another one: At the current state of investigation, the Public Prosecutor's Office believes that there is a political link – and that is why it is asked how the Immunities Committee and today's plenary will present itself here. In this request, the StA then makes the “artificial grip” – as decided in the Committee and here reported – to say that the incriminated time was 12th. July 2006; so the day where the contract was concluded. In this way, one can escape elegantly that one should in fact have had to establish the political context. – This is the impurity of this House, as it appears in this solution. We have tabled an amendment in which we said that the political context should be established, but at the same time extradition should be decided. I am, of course, good things that these accusations, which are not in fact file content, can easily be clarified. So far, there has been nothing else but an anonymous indicator that uses a very special diction in its jargon, which, as it were, smells very much of “political correctness”, so that you know about where that might have come from. A diffamation campaign was launched, which will break down into criminal law and otherwise. I am already pleased that the decent Members of this House – including you from the Greens – will apologize to Dr. Graf for diffamation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34447	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34468	Mr President, I will take advantage of the entire speaking time. Mr President. High house! You take an anonymous advertisement, make the public, pack the whole thing with a few ideological ingredients, then you also at the General Procuratorate, that it is only about ensuring that the public does not experience too much, but then sends the whole thing in copy to colleagues Kogler of the Greens, to colleagues Gahr and herbs as well as to the colleague Becher, saying: For God's sake, we didn't want this to happen to the public; we were concerned about preventing Martin Graf from being attacked in public! Then there is an extradition request, of course a broad media coverage about it – and then, hopefully, there will be a procedure. This prosecutor is more than juicy. I therefore advise that Parliamentary questions ensure that the Minister of Justice does these prosecutors' legs. And then it turns out: It was nothing! In the meantime, however, Dr. Tomb. Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly the “protection purpose” that the immunity law does not want! You have to be responsible for this being played in this way. This is the second time now! I warned you at the time when it was about the extradition of the colleague Winter that this is the wrong way. And now it's already met you. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Graf]] This is not a problem for the government parties, because this is always directed against the minority; Abuse of the Immunity Act is always directed against the minority. And why? – Because it is the majority, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The whole thing has another history – and it's pretty blamble. Mr Dummvoll, I asked you earlier who Mr Wieltsch is, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of ARC. You said you thought that was a black man. In the meantime, it's clearly a black one. It has been the co-chairman of Mr Michaelis in the ÖIAG. This is not a ‘ random black’, but a real black colored in the wool. Mr. Wieltsch is one of those black ladies and gentlemen who collected €800 000 at the finish. €800 000! And now you have to get stuck, ladies and gentlemen! Get stuck! In order to know who in this country decides on mandates: not the people, no, no, but Mr Gagenkaiser, the 800 000-€ gage-and-handling-skaiser! I would like to read to you what Mr. Wieltsch gave you for the best, on 4 May. ==References====External links== – Mr Kopf, now it will be very interesting, because this reveals a democratic concept that must be opposed. I'm quoting Mr. Wieltsch now: That is why I would have proposed, or would I have had the management to do so, I do not know how to formulate it – so he stutters anything around –, encourages or encourages or points out – that is all the original quote – that the applicable approval rules are yes to you. They must approve secondary employment in writing. We have it there, yes, I say it again, I think we should get active here. I believe that on the 30th of October Members will be praised. The management should turn to their lawyers and say – the attorney is Dr. Graf –: We read in the paper, you were elected, you said you wanted to make both positions. But we'll tell you that we won't approve. Please tell us what consequences we must face. ... Please, let's do this again, then let's think about it again if he wants to become a politician, that he's looking for a common solution with you with which ARC is looking, or he says I like to stay with ARC, then he's not allowed to take up his mandate. - So please! That would be my request. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the access of the Directors of the Executive Board! I think this is unbearable for democracy policy. And by the way – it is a pity that the Minister of Justice is no longer here –: Madam President, do you want mandates to be awarded in the future? So you have to ask the board directors or ex-Chairman directors and Gagekaisers at ÖIAG before you have to ask if you can even vote again, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! – This is the access to the democracy of these gentlemen, but not ours! This is dealing with democracy, as obviously only someone can have it, who believes that democracy is there to secure the gags for ÖIAG gagenkaisers. This is the access of these people, ladies and gentlemen! - But that's not how it's played! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Head: That's absurd!]] No, that's not absurd! You can even call this on YouTube. [[Abg. Head: Your interpretation is absurd!]] No, no, that's not absurd! I will provide a much better interpretation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ironic calls at BZÖ.]] She'll be much better. You can read it. Is someone so good from the ÖVP club and provides Mr. Klubobmann head with a criminal code? I recommend § 251 StGB and quote from it: “Whoever is a member of the National Council” – and I would like to say, Mr Head, it is very instructive – “...with violence or with a dangerous threat of exercising his powers at all or in a certain sense must be punished with imprisonment from six months to five years and in the event of a severe need (§ 106) with imprisonment of up to ten years.” – quoting. Did you get that now, Mr. Kopf? [[Complaints and intermediate calls at the BZÖ.]] We have a Gagenkaiser, who says Dr. Graf mustn't become a Member, that doesn't fit him. Even more beautiful is the history, it only leads too far to read all of this. He says the Dr. Graf can't be a Member, because it could be, he's going to be a scientist. For God's sake! - It's all inside. You can understand everything, it's not invented. This is a tape transfer that can be checked. Martin Graf may even become a scientist, as he cannot also work at the ARC, because that could lead to complications, it says. So far we are not in this country that any ÖIAG officials who come to this house on every occasion and demand liability, nor say who then has to face these liabilities, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is such an arrogant way of dealing with democracy, so that I draw the conclusion: If it is played the way Mr Wieltsch plays it here, if it is played in such a way that the right of immunity is directed against a Member, I ask you to: Create You're putting an end to unprofessional immunity so that this unworthy circus can be put to an end, ladies and gentlemen. This right of immunity is no longer a protection for the honourable Member, but has become a burden on the honourable Member. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And if you don't want to do that, you at least make sure that the prosecutors continue to do so with their procedures, making progress, because that's what's been dragged away until it's done so politically. If you hadn't become a third-party President, Mr Graf, this would probably never have become a subject at all. No, Mr Graf has become the third president of the National Council, against the resistance of certain circles – and with this the whole thing has only been driven. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Which circles?]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] Jö, the Greens are asking what circles! Don't you get red when you ask what circles? When I read the anonymous ad through, I have the feeling that one of you wrote it, so it is written, ladies and gentlemen. Politically correct, proud of internal I’s and other green macular stories! That's how it looks! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So if you take these methods against unloving political decisions that don't suit you, I ask you: At least make sure the prosecutor doesn't make senseful extraditions! Because if you already know that the National Council's immunity committee – ratione temporis – says that there is no political connection at all, because at the time, Dr. Graf was not a Member of Parliament – and I hope this has also been discussed at the public prosecutor's office – then you don't have to make such an extradition request at all. But then your anonymous ad is nothing more worth it. This is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. It's just about the political agitation against the Martin Graf. It's just about making a political decision that doesn't fit you into publicly opposing it. – In the end, nothing will come out of the criminal proceedings at all! Something will come out, but not what you want. I will ask you to take action against the Lord Wieltsch according to § 251 StGB. I would strongly recommend that. We will deal with this with parliamentary questions from the Minister for Justice, because this is an official offence. § 251 StGB, the attempt to influence a Member of Parliament, that he does not even take up his mandate, is an official offence, Madam President!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34593	Mr Commissioner, please put the final sentence to the vote. The general speaking time of the Group is over.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34608	In the sense of democracy, I call on Madam President Prammer to protect the Members of this House and not to accuse them of this culprit.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34635	Mr Oellinger has now come to speak. Mr deputies, you've done three minutes. [[Abg. Oillinger: (on the way to the speaker's desk) There may be a little more, Mr President!]] The rest of your group's speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34672	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! That sounds very nice and impressive what the colleague Stadler has presented to us, but first of all we will clarify the simplest things. It is not a question of whether there is a political connection with the President of the Council, so it is not a question of the political context, but of the relationship with political activity as a Member of Parliament. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] And that's the crucial difference. Of course, all in this Republic who wanted to know and knew that there was a lot of political politics there during the time Mr. Graf was working in Seibersdorf. Of course, all employees in Seibersdorf know that they were afraid of their job, because Mr. Graf has led a very strict regime, in which he obviously only went through with the miss, in Seibersdorf, my dear ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: fairytale hour! It's a fairy tale hour!]] So there has always been a political activity at the time of Mr Graf, only the connection with the work as a Member of Parliament was certainly not there at that time. Of course, Mr Stadler – if you are already so excited that you claim here, no, if the Martin Graf was not a Member at that time, then the prosecutor does not need to ask the High House or the Bureau for extradition – it is of course so that at any time when I have a political mandate and the crime was before, the prosecutor has to ask the Bureau or the National Council for extradition. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, that's wrong!]] Of course, Mr Stadler, it is so, for otherwise would They stand out here and say: Scandal, the innocent are accused! I come to the core of the whole thing. What's this about? We also discussed this in the Immunities Committee. – In essence, even if you can list a lot of things, it is about the accusation of unfaithfulness. I'll tell you one thing: Mr President Graf is here – you are assisting – and he says: Political arbitrariness was carried out against me; I was released, and that was political arbitraryity! – Well, this is a statement by Mr Graf, but let us look at this claim a little closer. Who said Dr. Graf spoke against the release? His federal brother from the "Olympia", Mr. Rinhofer. Mr. Rinnhofer, as the managing director, takes his stand and says: Dear Martin Graf – I suppose they're you – you're fired! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This was Mr. Gornik!]] And the federal brother Martin Graf says to the federal brother Rinhofer: That's political arbitrariness! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This was Professor Gornik!]] Excuse me, but does anyone believe this theater here in this house?- Oh, my God! Does anyone believe that this has something to do with realities?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You know as well as I do, Mr President Graf: It's about €220,000 pick-up, €50,000 premium, with “next noises ” around €300 000. It is therefore right to ask whether you have received this €300 000 right or whether unfaithfulness was in play. I think it is absolutely correct if you want to perform a theatre here and make us believe, because a “olimpia” brother, through a “olimpia” brother, has been engaged in another “olimpia” brother, that the house then asks what it has to do with reality. Mr. Graf, you want to distract yourself from being an excavator in Seibersdorf. That's it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why you do not need to come to us with “political arbitrariness”. That's the decisive thing. [[Abg. Street: 50 percent in there are downsiders!]] Mr President, you have collected €300 000, €50 000 as a premium, of which your “law representative” says your “advertising” in the immunity committee, it was probably not a premium, but a different disguised removal. So were the words of Mr Rosenkranz in the immunity committee. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's right!]] There's been a little bit of a trick. Yes, we would like to know, and we would like a prosecutor's office – not a "mute", but a prosecutor's office – if it believes that this is worthy of investigation, which can also be examined. It's nothing else! It is not about your work here as President, Mr Graf, but only about what you have done before, namely in Seibersdorf: as one where the workforce has at the end rightly resisted against you and all those who have almost driven Seibersdorf into ruin.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34830	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34862	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I don't understand this whole excitement; I didn't understand it in the immunity committee. [[Abg. Grosz: You don't understand much at all!]] If President Graf is on his own – to be seen from the media – even for extradition, I think we should really take the air out and discuss it openly. We're not investigating, we're not justice, I think we're all in agreement. Should the prosecutor have determined: We wrote a letter to Mrs. Federal Minister and asked her if it was so that her organs would not be able to do so. We don't want all of this. That's where we all agree. However, I also believe that it is clear that we are all political people and that we can always say that there is a political connection, but the law, ladies and gentlemen, clearly refers to the context as a Member of Parliament. I'm sorry, but We have to examine this, we have to look at it in purely legal terms. That's what we decide. We're not investigating that's the task of justice, but one, I think, is crystal clear: Justice has to act in accordance with the laws. If it was, Mr Stadler, then the Minister is required if it was not the case – there is still the other version – then one probably would not have to make a extradition request. That too should be clarified. But the whole story is not to excite, because Mr President Graf himself wanted to clarify it in court.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34912	Mr Magnème. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his Stadler to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34936	Mr President. High house! Mr Oellinger has indeed claimed that in any case the public prosecutor would have to make a request for extradition to the house because it is a member of the House of Deputies Dr Graf. – That’s wrong! It is true, rather, that § 10(2) of the Rules of Procedure regulates first – I quote – the following: “Deputies may be arrested only with the consent of the National Council for a criminal act – the case of a fresh act in case of a crime. Similarly, searches of the House of Representatives need the approval of the National Council." Section 10 para. 3 GOG: "Other than that, Members may not be legally prosecuted for a criminal act without the consent of the National Council unless it is obviously in no connection with the political activity of the Member concerned." – That is not the case with him. And on top of that: ‘However, the Authority shall seek a decision of the National Council on the existence of such a link if this is the case of the Members concerned’ – he has not done so – ‘or require a third of the members of the Standing Committee responsible for these matters.’ – The Committee has not done so either. That means that the prosecutor's office could have been active for a long time. She shouldn't have asked for extradition. The whole media vortex is...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e34967	Thank you, my colleague. The correction has been made. [[In the case of BZÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. May. Stadler.]] The next item is Mr Graf.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e35001	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! To ensure that there is no misunderstanding, I predict that I am of course in favour of the extradition of my person in this matter, but in order to be delivered – and at least those who have been involved in the matter of immunity – a political relationship must be established. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] If no political context is established – and this is now the decision to be taken here; so the Committee’s request – then there is no extradition within the meaning of the Immunities Act, because then the prosecutor’s office or the investigation authorities are not prevented from taking investigation steps in this regard from the outset. That is exactly what I am accusing of the Immunities Committee, now as a person concerned: that he has made a wrong decision here. And if the Immunities Committee or the majority of the Immunities Committee finds that one is not determined in an Immunities Committee or is active in the matter, I am very surprised – now also in full knowledge of the state prosecutor's content – as one can see as an immunity committee that an incriminated behavior is just on the 12th. ==References====External links== Where's this date, Mr. Pendl? Where is this date, ladies and gentlemen? What is it for a date – except that one can claim it was prior to the accession of the mandate or the Angelobung? That is exactly what politics is being done, and with it every right of immunity is contacted, which is at all possible. I don't want to go down there right now. However, I would like to have clarified the facts. I am firmly convinced that the procedure will be stopped and/or will end with advocacy – no matter what the greens or others want. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, so that this is also clarified: I couldn't say anything about this for a long time, because I was bound by a written obligation of secrecy, of which I have only been released for about ten days, and since then I have published everything. You can check it out. I was disbanded by the company ARC, to which I had a duty of silence to subdue. If you ask me who pronounced the release, I will tell you quite clearly: It was Mr. University Professor Dr. Gornik who appeared in my office. This can be proved because he was looking for an appointment; we had an appointment secretary. Dr. Gornik came to me at the time, sent me the letter, and told me that we have to let you go if you take up the mandate. In the letter itself it is then – I have it here, and I have now also published it – on 17 November. October 2006 is set out in it, signed by the management ARC, I was there a lawyer... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Yes, these were Professor Gornik and Dr. Rinnhofer. Both made a mistake. No question. This letter holds, and now I'm literally quoting from it – yes, that's the way it is, we're acting without the respect of the persons, it's different with you: [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Parent]] The adoption of the mandate as a member of the national council would therefore realize a dismissal status and force the company – meaning ARC – to terminate your service relationship without delay through temporary redundancies, in view of the indifference principle. [[Abg. Oils: It was designed!]] This was not designed, but it was a product that was ultimately held through the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board. [[Abg. Oillinger: It can't even be the Gornik!]] You can now of course say that there is no political connection. – I personally notice: Between the dismissal, the “discharge”, which was not a discharge and was taxed at 50 percent, and the accession of the mandate was a political link. If you want to see it, you can see it – and if you don't want to see it, you can't see it. But by doing so, you give every future accusation a wide space to proceed in this way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] Decide the political context and then as a second decision, as provided for in the Immunity Act, the extradition. Then I'm happy. – You obviously don’t, and you want to construct something that isn’t fact. Who accuses me in this regard of unfaithfulness that I am a removal for stolen 20 years – not for three and a half years' presence! – a settlement, not a settlement, Mr. Arbeitsrechtler Ölllinger, which was taxed fully and unprivileged by 50 percent; [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: This falls on your skull!]] Mr. Molterer, who was Minister of Finance at the time, could at most think that I was a shareholder, because I was a single vis-à-vis, the entire management board and the entire Supervisory Board plus ownership representatives. [[Call the ÖVP:Abcasher!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If one accuses me of participation, then I see it about as if one was attacking someone – and then say that the victim who was robbed is himself guilty and involved, for if it had not been there, one could not have attacked and robbed it! – In this case, what you do is already a perpetrator-offer-return, ladies and gentlemen! But whatever the case is, In the future – and there will be such cases, for example based on § 159 para. 3 StGB, which will soon also employ very many courts, the former case of negligent Krida, i.e. if a local authority saves a company from insolvency without legal or contractual obligation; I call at this point municipal credit, I call AUA and many more – many who are sitting in organs as well as here, either as federal council or as national councillor, because there is no political connection, do not fear, but hopefully they are as happy as I am that a farce will finally be concluded if, after having received a discharge and for the half of what would have been granted a contract, one has left here also as a perpetrator. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Please go! Please!]] You can keep that as you wish, and I do not want to agree with you on your political motivation, you also do not need to give up on this, but whoever is under immunity law will find that there is a political link between this criminal proceedings and my function. I am surprised that, in this case of the Court of Auditors, a legally qualified assistant body of this Parliament, in full knowledge of the content of the file – since I myself offered to choose with full absence of the references, but one wanted to get rid of me because a free mandate with an activity on the ARC is incompatible, even as a self-certified person without references; the Court of Auditors knew this content! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] – However, it says that there has been a possible unjust payment here, and it is not clear that it may have been necessary to give up the mandate, and that Parliament’s assistant body is in the interests of parliamentarians. – We have already come that far in this Republic! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There will be no good service today in this decision-making process, because the result will be the same [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] The procedure will be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e35179	I call Mr Sonnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e35203	Mr President. High house! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Graf himself is in favour of extradition, which has also been included in the Committee by the FPÖ. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's just not about extradition here!]] He has also given us quite a reason and has provided us with written documents concerning the preparation of the contract of service and the exercise of the mandate. – I assume that all of this will be clarified anyway. Of course, it is interesting to note that the BZÖ in the Committee agreed that there is no political link – and Mr Stadler has now argued slightly differently. This was obviously not properly agreed in your group. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I got the record today! Your... Wieltsch is the author! I got the protocol today!]] . I believe that the question of § 251 StGB, Mr Stadler, will not be the subject of the immunity committee and not the subject of Parliament, but will be settled by the courts. [[Abg. Strache: I look forward to the Raiffeisen... next week!]] You can get it to the point: ==References== A service contract was concluded in July 2006. This was clearly a private legal activity and has nothing to do with the political activity of the future MPs, so to speak. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But Mr. Wieltsch said! At least believe your party friend if you don't already believe me...! Wieltsch has said this: political context!]] What has developed after that is ultimately another question, but it is not to be assessed politically or emotionally, but it is a legal assessment, and the time of conclusion of the contract is crucial for legal evaluation. In addition, the Immunities Committee has also decided that the Minister of Justice may verify whether proceedings have been brought, because if they were actually put in place, as it was claimed, and if the public prosecutor had been correct with her request, it might also be necessary to take disciplinary measures. The Minister of Justice will also answer this question to the Committee, and I am convinced that the court will come to a right and just decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e35283	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Immunities in 93 of the supplements to decide on the following. In consideration of the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Dr. Martin Graf becomes in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG found that there is no link between the incriminated actions and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Dr. Martin Graf. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. The request was accepted. [[Call the FPÖ:Generate!]] The agenda is exhausted. [[01:07:56]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e35324	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 515/A(E) to 530/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 1261/J to 1286/J has also been received. Request within the meaning of § 99(2) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e35347	Finally, a request has been made by Members of Parliament to carry out a special audit by the Court of Auditors. The next meeting I call for today, 12. March, 9 o'clock. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The meeting will begin at 9 a.m. with Question Time. This meeting is closed.
