ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e2623	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Lohfeyer, Praßl, Dr. Schüssel and Dr. Winter. [[09:05:47]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e2654	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the replies to the questions 1034/AB and 842/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e2913	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply 1034/AB to Question 979/J by Mr Ddr. Mr Königshofer, colleagues and colleagues on the Eastern Risks of Austrian Banks by the Federal Minister for Finance. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. I also say that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is a short debate on the reply 842/AB of Question No 818/J by honourable Members Mag. Dr. Zinggl, colleagues, on the still missing local boards by Mr Bundeskanzler. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure following the just-announced discussion of an answer to the question. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e2943	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e2968	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 122 minutes, FPÖ 108 minutes as well as green and BZÖ per 95 minutes. For the duration of the television broadcast by the ORF from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m., the following statement was agreed: a word message per group of 13 minutes, German Chancellor 10 minutes, vice chancellor 10 minutes, a word message per group with 6 minutes each, a further word message per group with 6 minutes, a member of the government of the ÖVP and a member of the government of the SPÖ with 5 minutes each, a word message per group with 5 minutes each, a further word message per group with 5 minutes each, a member of the SPÖ and a member of the government of the ÖVP with 5 minutes each, and a word message per group of 4 minutes each. The President-in-Office or the President-in-Office will ensure strict compliance with the speaking time of each Member. Should it appear after the fifth round of Members that the remaining speaking time is not sufficient, the President or President-in-Office will reduce the speaking time of the remaining seven speakers, including the two members of the government, aliquot. There is also agreement that actual corrections will only be called after the television broadcast. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:09:20]] 1. Point First reading of the Government template concerning the Federal Finance Act 2009 including investments (111 d.b.) 2. Point First reading of the government template concerning the 2010 Federal Finance Act, including investments (112 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3028	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda. We are going into the debate. Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap is the first to speak with a speaking time of 13 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3060	There is no such thing at first reading, so the Rules of Procedure are now as they are – only for information. You've been in here for a long time, you should know. We have the opportunity today to hold a debate not only on yesterday's budget speech but on the budget itself. The budget is the policy cast in figures. That is why we can also assess the policy measures, and that is a good thing. This budget creation is, of course, to be assessed against the background of a comprehensive economic and financial crisis, which is why it is quite pointless if, on the one hand, it is publicly criticised that the limits of debt are exceeded and, on the other hand, it is called on to put even more billions on the move to counter it. – The balance is decisive! And from this point of view, I believe that the budget should be assessed, but above all in the light of the severest crisis in the world economy since the 1930s. For 2009, a minus growth, a negative GDP growth of up to 2 or 2.2 percent and an increase in the unemployment rate are forecast to be 5.8 percent. The order books are no longer as filled as they were in previous years, and one sees the impact that this has on corporate strategies, on locations and also on purchasing power. People need money to stimulate consumption in order to counter economics in this way too. And then there is the hour in which to assess whether a government has recognized this within the framework of its work. All the governments of the world, not just the American, not just those in the Member States of the European Union, not just those in Asia, are facing this task and the question: What to do? – The positive thing is that if you are a member of a large economic area like the European Union, you can more effectively participate in these globally hopefully effective measures. This is the task of the European Union in a sense, says the national governments, which must all be interested in the fact that there is a boosting of growth, ensuring employment, that social networks do not tear down, that social models do not collapse, because the consequences would be social conflicts and a dramatic increase in poverty, which is already an issue that we must deal with and deal with. I do not want to repeat the discussion yesterday and other plenary sessions that we had, but it is already so that many important decisions have been taken here, about on 24 May. September, the extension of the “hackler scheme”, the abolition of study fees and the adjustment of the increase in pensions to 3.4 percent. As a result, there was something about which the Social Democrats had been fighting for a long time, namely a socially just tax reform, which was preferred. That's exactly what we've achieved, that's exactly what we've done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] – This is the right answer at a time when the economic crisis presents these challenges to government policy. That's important. And the Austrians should know and see this too! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] In this context, however, the economic packages have also come into being. One of these packages aims to stimulate the willingness to grant loans by creating a framework of liability and providing a framework of liability for banks. Irresistiblely, this is often interpreted in the population as if the banks had been allocated 100 billion. - That's wrong! It is about the banks as the main veins of the economic system, which are to set in motion the arteries of the blood circulation by continuing to lend. I'm just saying, There may be some in these areas that want to use the economic crisis, which suddenly releases workers he has always wanted to release, or a bank in which it is said that this is now a convenient opportunity to set public funds in motion and then see where you can work elsewhere. The task of the state is to see what happens to this money to exercise control – and there is. We have financial market supervision, we have the Court of Auditors, we have control bodies looking at it, and of course we also look at it ourselves. I mean, you have to put on that control, because this is about public money, about taxpayers' money! We don't have anything to give! We must use the money very, very precise, very, very responsible in any area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] This applies to the economic sector as well as to the social sector, because we cannot accept poverty – even in times of economic crisis! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is then often said so loosely: Well, now we have short work programmes!, although we support this in the considerable order of € 190 million. This is the attempt to keep jobs. There is an extension of our labour market policy measures, with an increase of 4.8 billion to 6.4 billion euros by 2010. That's a lot of money, and that's got to be evaluated and recognized. I believe that this also takes effect, that we are really signaling here that we are fighting for every single job. We fight against any tendency that leads to impoverishment, no matter in any area, and for those who are already at the poverty line, the pensioners, for all those who might feel affected here, and we want to signal that we are concerned with every individual Austrian, about every individual Austrian. No one can forget it! Everything needs to be done to minimise the impact of the crisis, perhaps even countering the crisis. A very central task is public investment in different areas, especially in the infrastructure sector, where everything is really done. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's where the spirits share! Take the money for more jobs!]] Frameworks, construction programs, ÖBB, ASFINAG – from 2009 to 2014 will be invested €22.5 billion. This has great sustainability, which has effects that not only increase employment, not only purchasing power, but also improve infrastructure. Thank you, Mrs Minister, for taking such an active part in this, because that is the decisive way in which action can really be taken directly by the state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Because I have previously said that the labour market is one side, the infrastructure is the other, now the following – this concerns all departments –: The decisive steps must be taken in all departments. Yesterday was also the day when it was tried – I think it was successful – to signal that there should not be an area too short here. This is also seen in this health budget, where money is provided to ensure the health system. We want to continue the path that there must be no two-class medicine in Austria! Even in times of economic crisis, such a development cannot be accepted. That is why everything is being done here to ensure that the health care sector is given the money and that there is no smearing privatisation in the health sector. That's the one side. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The other side concerns education. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's a pretty messy thing today! Today, you're a good man!]] [[Abg. Strache: He needs a heavy work allowance!]] Education is a very crucial aspect, because despite the economic crisis, it is of course a question of being competitive across Europe and globally with our trained workers. Education is the future. That's our kids. It is about that we really do everything we can to guarantee this qualification. The last seven weeks were not a light time. I personally have to say that I did not understand that the teachers' trade unions preferred to give up allowances and stop using the school autonomous days instead of being one or two hours more with the students in the classes. I say so, I was not present at the negotiations, and I do not understand. I hope that, in the future, when it comes to the new right to serve, there will be a regulation that will enable the new entrants to implement this idea of being more with the students, to keep teaching more intensive and qualified. At the same time, however, I say that every school reform – and a lot has happened in this area – also lives on the fact that teachers participate in it, that they are motivated. I believe that this must continue to be a very essential aspect in order to be able to really master these future tasks in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I could now continue with what needs to be done in the field of education and culture, because there is also a significant redirection profitability in education and culture, or in the field of sports. But, as said, an element must be the economic focus of social affairs. I would, however, like to address another point. Yesterday we adopted a resolution, and essentially this resolution also points out that, as a result, of course – not now, but as a result, there has to be a preparatory work – a structural tax reform will have to be carried out within the framework of a tax commission. And I say something that is very important, then there will be many of the distribution questions that have been addressed in public discussions by people, where one has often had the impression – whether this is Hans Peter Haselsteiner, who said: Whoever deserves well should also give up! or whether the Claus Raidl is who meant: When will the capital increase tax finally come? – it is a call for help from the great earners and the wealthy to politics: Please, do something at last, let's not get too rich, do something, make a social balance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So I have to say, these were interesting speeches I've heard there. Of course, we picked them up and said: Of course, we should also have a debate on this in order to allow this to happen in the Commissions. The “Small Newspaper”, which spoke in an article about the dictatorship of empty cash registers, meant that after a study by the National Bank, we are actually talking about 78 000 Austrians – 78 000! – which, according to these studies, are considered to be millionaires. It's about justice! They're not going to clean up the budget to the infinite either, we know. But we must let the Austrians know, everyone, without exception everyone, has a contribution to make, in the final effect also those 78 000 who were spoken of in the “Small Newspaper”, which is very interesting. You all know, in the Guinness Book of Records, Julius Meinl will appear in the future, because in 50 minutes to transfer 100 million €, that is a performance. I don't know who's so loose. And this, of course, started this discussion, they said: Well, we are now in a situation that is also about the economic crisis. Not everyone is affected, everyone should be thrown out – that's demagogical, and that's not what it's all about. It's just that on this 1 percent, this 1.5 percent, this 2 percent will not forget. Otherwise, I would not like to add anything but only express my hope that we will continue to address this crisis constructively in the context of a discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3188	Mr Klubobmann's head is now on the table. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3209	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In his budget speech yesterday, Minister of Finance Pröll, as I mean, very impressive and, of course, thinking about the seriousness of the economic situation in which we are currently in the process, has brought us to the fore. In this crisis, which originally came from the USA to us, but which has caught us completely in the meantime, well-known experts also draw a gloomy picture. [[Abg. Strache: Also homemade!]] These revise their forecasts almost weekly, but unfortunately down. [[Abg. Bucher: How can you create a two-year budget?]] Given this dramatic situation, ladies and gentlemen, it was, of course, not easy for the Minister of Finance to create a serious budget, a budget which, on the one hand, takes account of these negative developments, but which, on the other hand, still has to set the right priorities. Mr. Finanzminister – I am allowed to say so – this exercise has been excellently successful for you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This budget, ladies and gentlemen, is a very solid basis for these difficult times. And this budget has not only set the right priorities, it has also been put very quickly. Remember, we have managed in a short time to bring about a stabilisation of the Austrian financial market. We have managed in a short time to decide on a tax relief of €3.2 billion to strengthen purchasing power. We have managed in a short time to bring on the journey two economic packages of about €3 billion – this will strengthen the domestic economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. And we have managed in a short time to respond also to the unsatisfying development on the domestic labour market, keyword for short work, resources for active labour market policy, in the order of 1.2 billion €. Ladies and gentlemen! The crisis will not only be managed, but it will be invested in the future. And yesterday, the Minister of Finance has outlined to us – also very impressively – that research will be invested in the future areas of education, that additional funds will flow into security – all the areas that we urgently need that are in the future and which will also benefit the population. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But some are still too few. But one thing we should have learned from the events of the last months: In addition to targeted investment, it is probably the most important principle for us to be able to control this development in a sustainable way and to guarantee sustainable development for the population, otherwise our children and perhaps our grandchildren will pay for these expenditures. Ladies and gentlemen, it was just spending without adequate security – think about the loans in the USA! – who have incubated this soup and who are now forcing us to take this effort. You will not find any prestige projects in this budget. However, we document one with this budget: the fight against this coalition against the economic crisis so that we can return to economic growth as soon as possible and create additional jobs as soon as possible. It is therefore a budget of actions and not a budget of promises, and I am also saying that this budget undoubtedly bears a Christian-social manuscript. In this crisis, we do not abandon those who need help! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: What is still Christian about the ÖVP and what is social?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are investing precisely in those areas and in those people who are providing innovations and services. And we do not forget exactly at this time those who have difficulties. Think of the important instrument of short-time work, not because short-time work would be desirable, but it is the instrument in which many, especially industrial enterprises, are involved in this difficult situation, which helps to avoid redundancies by reducing the working time of the employees by keeping the employees in the workforce and thus in earnings. And this is all better than to support them with unemployment money through labour market promotion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, last autumn we started to ensure that the capital market, especially the banks, has sufficient liquidity. This was important to us because the secure financing is the basis for the real economy. It is not about securing premiums from managers in banks, as it is always put in space as plausibly and populistly. No, it was about securing deposits and loans from bank customers, that is to say many small people, many entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs in small and medium-sized enterprises, so as to ensure the financing of their businesses and thus to ensure the financial viability of jobs at the end of the day. That was our concern. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This budget also contains the basis for financing the tax reform. This is now – I have already mentioned it – not only the largest of the last decades, but above all an important psychological signal to the people. This means that the citizens will have 1st place. ==References====External links== January of this year, more money available. This is money that will benefit the economy again by increasing purchasing power, thus restoring jobs in that country. The tax relief, ladies and gentlemen, will logically benefit especially those who pay taxes, I say clearly. It is precisely these people that we should treat in particular in this country in the next few years, because half of the workers in that country do not pay taxes. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's such a nonsense!]] The other half, due to the level of tax burden, is now at the limits of loadability, and the solidarity we demand from these people is now at the limits of loadability. We should not overstep these, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] The word ‘tax justice’ has been spoken before, ladies and gentlemen. Tax justice means, for me, that it also relieves those who, thanks to their efficiency, stand up for the public and finance this Republic. It's tax justice that we don't overstep this group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Minister of Finance has already said it very impressively yesterday, and we do not want to reduce the tax burden. [[Calls to the Greens.]] If Mr Haselsteiner wants to pay a little more, he should donate it and should not write it on the tax declaration as far as possible, I am very much for it, but he should not draw others into this populism. We do not want to reduce taxation, we want to stimulate the economic performance of everyone! That's our program. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why the Austrian People's Party will be always protecting itself from the medium-sized and tax-paying level and will not impose any more burdens on these people. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What did the Mensdorff donate to your party? What are you living on?]] What has recently been produced in the debate in the face of anti-proprietary attitude is almost frightening. It would be absurd if, in my opinion, we did what we did correctly, namely to relieve people of tax, so that they would have more in their wallet so that they would have more available for their daily income, which at the end of the day also serves the economy again, put people with one hand in one bag and put it out of the other pocket again with the other hand. That would be unfair and unfair. That is why I say quite clearly here: With the People's Party, there are certainly no new taxes, including property acquired well, which is usually already the result of pre-taxed income. We must promote investment and thus economic growth, and we must not put a leg on those who want to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we can really give this envy debate, it is not appropriate either. Mr. Ex-Bundesminister Bartenstein mentioned yesterday in his speech the Gini coefficient, who scientifically explains how income distribution looks in a country. Austria is one of those countries in which the lowest income and the highest income is the lowest thanks to very generous transfers. We are at the top of those countries where the gap between the lowest and the highest incomes is the lowest. That's justice! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, there is also a serious word about the burdens that we are now entering into, and the burdens, especially for the future. The measures I have described, whether this is the tax reform, economic packages, investment in education, security and much more, cost money. The government ratio increases to over 50 percent, while government debt will reach 78 percent in 2013. We do not do this easily, we do that with a heavy heart, but it is necessary because an exceptional situation, as we have it, also requires exceptional measures. It is therefore necessary to extend the debt ratio. But we are still committed to having a balanced budget, a balanced government budget throughout the economic cycle. That is to say, it is also true what the Minister of Finance is doing that, in addition to investments, he is also increasing on the other hand in the expenditure on discretion so that debt does not grow above our heads. In other words, we will have to start some painful reform in the next few months and years. This too is responsible, ladies and gentlemen. One thing to conclude: Let us be glad that we are a member of the European Union and that we have the euro. Where we are – just look at countries like Iceland and others! – if we didn’t have this jacket for Austria? We alone would not be able to study and master this crisis. Austria is in a difficult situation. In any event, the ÖVP Club, ladies and gentlemen, will actively support the Federal Government in the implementation of these reform projects in this difficult situation. With this budget, we are laying the foundation for the fact that we can get out of this crisis very quickly and that we can also start a positive development for our Austria very quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3382	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. Also 13 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3403	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV! We heard yesterday a very consecrationary budget speech by the Minister of Finance, which, in part, has even become poetic in his speech and has also tried to divert from his phrases and flakes. One, when he was heard in the context of his budget speech and he tried to cover the one or the other in terms of content with these phrases and phrases, almost had the impression that violins were already playing in the background. [[Call the ÖVP:Go!]] I understand you're nervous, too, for good reason, because this budget is an admission to your failure. It is an admission of the failure of the Minister of Finance that he seems to be unable to deal with this crisis at all. It is far too little done. We heard today: Economic packages, economic relief, increase in purchasing power, relief of small and medium-sized enterprises. . This minimundus package, which you have decided here, where even the Federal Chancellor has admitted, is a tariff reduction that did not mean anything but cover progression, is simply not really the necessary and right measure we would need in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That was a clap instead of a clumsy that we needed. We need a sustainable tax reduction where we would have had to take over at least €6.5 billion in order to avoid certain misdevelopments and problems. Experts say that by the end of the year, unfortunately, because of the non-reacting of this federal government too, up to 600,000 unemployed are expected. This is a dramatic development. We know that there is a basic rule that economists have calculated that 100 000 unemployed people will cost the state up to €1.5 billion per year due to the loss of tax. That is, we can calculate how much a hundred thousand unemployed people will have to pay the state extra costs that are irresponsible. There we should take money in order to avoid this, to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises in order to secure jobs in order to make it possible for people to have more money in their pockets again. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] You can't mess up there. That's exactly the case. But when it comes to accumulating the banks unverified billions, you don't mess. I therefore say that this bank package belongs once again to a responsible policy. I say that the € 85 million that the state has taken over for the protection and security of savings books are correct. But I say no to the €15 billion that will be paid to banks unverified in fresh capital, to state loans. At least €3 billion should be taken out for families, to strengthen families, to strengthen public security, but also to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No bank should simply be beaten up without the Court of Auditors' review of the balance sheets! Today, they are trying for the x-th time the FMA, the financial market supervision. – Yes, please, who has failed in recent years? Double control would be necessary! In this area in particular, the Court of Auditors should review the balance sheets of those banks that have applied for state aid. But it's pretty striking, with what vehemence. You defend the bank package and with what anger you reject from the government's warning votes, Minister of Finance. I say that you don't have to see everything worse than it is, but the statements of a Nobel Prizewinner for Economics, who warned of the Austrian state bankruptcy, can't be done just as you did, according to the motto: What does he understand, Mr. Nobel Prizewinner for Economics? You can't just wipe it out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Precisely if we practice liberal criticism, you are always depressing and defamating us as an alien enemy. If a Nobel Prizewinner from abroad practices criticism, this is suddenly the Austrian enemy. – This is your flat policy that you operate, and that confirms your sensitivity to these issues. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the “Financial Times Germany” it has been written that there is a higher risk in Austria than in Italy, the market fears the pleite of Austria. For weeks, investors would be concerned that a failure to pay in Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain could be the case, but more and more, because of the crisis in Eastern Europe, another country came to the attention of investors, namely Austria. - What's the problem? Austria, like no other country, relied on growth in Eastern Europe. The banks of the Alpine State lent loans of over €200 billion to the region, which corresponds to approximately 71 percent of the Austrian gross domestic product. I'll give you the right to: The crisis has come to an end in America, which is perfectly right. [[Abg. Grill: Yesterday you said something else!]] - Yesterday I said the same thing. The crisis has come to an end in America, but the European Union is not a safeguard wall from this crisis, as you are absurdly saying, but it is the head of globalisation and it has only made such a development possible with its deregulation decisions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Banks have invested in devils coming out in Eastern Europe, and ÖVP and SPÖ have supported and made it possible. You're sitting in the ivory tower and you're denying that. Since you are defaming Mr Krugman's statements in this way, I ask you: Why don't you just put the facts on the table? – Probably because you cannot do so; this is also reflected in the reply to our question, in which you, Minister of Finance, say literally: “The Federal Ministry of Finance has data on the Austrian banks’ commitment to Eastern Europe in a non-conclusional form.” In other words: You do not have the slightest idea of what arrests in Eastern Europe are threatening our Republic, our homeland, and what could end up striking. [[Abg. Grandruck: Do you have one?]] I would therefore like to say to you: From this very point of view, it is irresponsible if you simply want to shoot 15 billion so to the Austrian banks without any conditions and without sufficient criteria. We supported something else, with the promise of the then Minister of Finance Molterer here on the government bank, who said: If ever a bank in Austria submits applications, we will formulate and define legal and political criteria here in this House! – It never happened! You abused the opposition back then, I say it very openly. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] You also have to ask yourself: Did the banks ask the Austrian taxpayers before they started irresponsible, negligent and risky conquests in the East, whether he is at all willing to carry the risk in the event of possible and foreseeable turbulence? The bank directors as beggars in the conifers demand that the taxpayer simply make the money available to them, money that is often not received from a bank as a simple citizen. [[Abg. Singer: Incredible!]] You're being checked for heart and kidneys and you don't get credit anyway. Today, we are to help the “beggars in the needle strip” out of the patch, and the taxpayer is to be sure that managers have irrigably speculated money in Eastern Europe and do not even have to withdraw, not even to be held responsible! One of the banks serving taxpayers' money is not quite unknown in the ÖVP. [[Abg. Grandruck: Bullshit, your name is straight!]] Some of the representatives of this group sit here, are also excited and are all the time consciously calling in between. Mr. Ferry Maier, stupid, Auer, Bartenstein, Mol-ter, Mitterlehner and, of course, the vice-channer and finance minister Pröll, who is behind me, serve Mr. Konrad joyfully as Raika-Söldner; a call is enough, then all stand-eight!, they are tracking, and it will implement what Mr. Raiffeisen-Generalanwalt Konrad says. In the meantime, they have almost more members of the National Council than the Greens – not that the Greens would leave us in this House, but that already shows by a gable cross-crack system that will appear to be. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The chief of Raiffeisen, Mr. General Conrad, said in October – I quote him –: “Only over my body” we use state aid. . I am pleased that Mr Konrad is still doing well today, especially since he has already applied for €1.75 billion in state aid. This Advocate General is looking for billions of loans, although he said: “Only about my body”. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I understand that this hurts you, because Raiffeisen plays a very crucial current role in this budget debate, because the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, which is now going to give the school rent to the Ministry of Education, is also firmly in the hands of the Giebel Kreuzkrake. The Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft falls within the competence of Minister Mitterlehner, Managing Director is Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Stadlhuber, by chance, the ex-son-in-law of Mr. Konrad, Mrs. Mag. Michaela Steinacker has been managing director at Raiffeisen Holding NÖ-Vienna since July 2008, whose core business is of course also real estate. It's all just a random network. Apparently, the Raiffeisen group has established a state in the state, in other words, it controls itself, and the ÖVP dances in the meantime after the pipe from Conrad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I mean, Mr Stadler, you have been dancing long after the pipe of the ÖVP, the Austrians know that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But this also explains why the Federal Government is not prepared to change the banking package, which is why the Federal Government is not prepared to relieve citizens and help citizens, but wants to take 15 billion unverified, without control, without managerial responsibility, without strengthening the Austrian internal market, without supporting smaller entrepreneurs. There is no audit by the Court of Auditors. Raiffeisen is today a state in the state where large parts of the Austrian media landscape are also financed: “NEWS”, “profile”, “format” and so on, 12 magazines are owned by Raiffeisen, by Advocate General Konrad, the daily “Kurier”, the daily “ÖsterREICH”. Journalists such as Kotanko and Christian Rainer are sitting there, leading the spring of Mr. Konrad, so that the Austrians do not have to wonder that there can be media manipulation in this country, in our home country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Despite all these investments, Raiffeisen wants to receive €1.75 billion from the citizens. Any Austrian who is in need and who is in need of social assistance will not receive it until it has basically nothing left. I therefore ask: If Raiffeisen wants to receive money, billions of euros from the Austrian taxpayer as support, then the Group should first sell its entire shares in the media, casino, EPOMedia sector, and draw on its core business, as it actually does banks in other areas. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say that the idea of cooperatives, which is being led ad absurdly there today, will be even closer in the next few days. The Freedom Party, like you from the ÖVP, is not willing to sacrifice a few Vienna banks, a few large banks to the Austrian state, because in the end we are endangering our homeland and simply throwing out money that might disappear into any speculation holes. They have not acted responsibly in this crisis until now. There are no decisive measures to relieve the population. You're making a bird-strout policy, as we've been able to take out your calls during the last few minutes. I say quite consciously: We reject it. We want solidarity, social responsibility, tax relief instead of new taxes, instead of class struggle. But we also want to crush this red and black gable cross-crack in Austria at last, because it finally needs transparency. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] A bank does not have to operate outside its core business and then receive state billions!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3592	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3613	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Sepp, bring us back level!]] Back from the Annual General Meeting of Raiffeisen International and back to the Budget debate. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It'll be the same soon if it goes on like this!]] I may add to the words of Mr Klubobmann's head an even corrective one: If you say that this budget – which you are clearly proud of – bears a Christian-social manuscript, then I am very surprised personally because you have always given of yourself in recent years: The EIA is not a debt party, the EIA does not stand for a debt policy in our country! You know, in 2013, we're going to have a debt ratio of 78 percent, and almost € 280 billion will be in debt. The only thing I see in this Christian-social manuscript – I give you absolutely right – is the 200 € tax deduction that you have if you pay a church tax. This is the only Christian social thing I can discover in it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you are looking forward to finally implementing such a glorious tax reform in this country, which you are so proud of, then I must be surprised. In 2002, you called for new elections, and in 2008 you called out new elections just because you have always opposed a tax reform in this country, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “It’s enough! ”]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's the truth, that's how it looks. I will return to the budget speech of our Minister of Finance yesterday. Yesterday, you have explained clearly where the banking and financial crisis comes from, who are the actual debtors who have triggered it. I share your analysis and, of course, I also believe that in the past some mechanisms have failed and above all politics – not only in Austria but internationally – has to think about how it now has to clean up this disaster worldwide. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] But: If you are already telling us that this is an economic crisis, as we have not been able to cope with it for 80 years, if you are already looking at us, which means huge funding needs for us, for our budget, then I wonder why you have been allowed five months to present us with a budget, Mr. Finanzminister. [[Call the BZÖ:Another one!]] This is not responsible policy in our country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In view of an economic crisis, in a tense economic and financial situation in our country, I do not expect a twelve-fifth arrangement, but I expect it to present carefully and responsibly a budget, which also provides scope for action, which includes planning and which is, above all, a signal to the economy, ladies and gentlemen. If we look at this budget, if we also look at the key figures, then I really regret it – not only because you have spent a long time – that it is, Mr. Finanzminister, because it is now coming to light – if people in government responsibility have never been active in the economy at the head of a government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Neither the Federal Chancellor nor the Finance Minister, nor the two State Secretarys have spent only a minute of their life in the private economy. Otherwise, they would not have made the mistake of relying only on the IHS and the Wifo – as regards the key figures for the preparation of their budget – two economic research institutes exclusively under the yoke of the EIA and the SPÖ working towards them, which are a vehicle of their financial policy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: those of them are paid!]] Mr Finanzminister, you will be laying a huge rupture on this fiscal-political blind flight on which you are moving – I am prophesying to you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: Should you wait even longer?- Oh, my God!]] No, you shouldn't have waited any longer, but how can you make a two-year budget if – as your clubman has just said – the numbers that are important for calculating a budget change almost daily? How can you look forward to two years? [[Call to the ÖVP: Who said that?]] You're a hell-seer! Change your profession and go to the private sector, will You see brightly, then you can already predict the stock prices of the next few years and probably take a lot more profit from them. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the completely wrong motto this Federal Government has, namely: We smile over the crisis, mainly peace in our country! We have seen this – apparently according to the motto: it costs what it wants – in this educational reform, which was not a reform, this school reform, which we have all waited for most in the last seven weeks, in which you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, have left your education minister in the dark and the education minister has made a kneefall in front of the teacher union. This is not encouraging, Mr Finance Minister, because this example for us is proof that in the future every change, every reform – in whatever areas of our country – will be carried out, that there is a strike, that there is resistance, and that the Federal Government will fall over again, and that it will be kneeling in front of these trade unions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now we are also showing that it is a mistake and that it was a mistake to take the trade unions, the representatives of interests into the government. [[Call the ÖVP:You don't know social dialogue?! You don't keep anything from social dialogue?- Oh, my God!]] This is the blockade policy before which Austria will stand in the coming weeks, months and years, in which there will be a painful budgetary situation and we can all rely on this country to remain unacceptable as long as red and black are in the government, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If I repeat your comments yesterday, I can only give you one advice: Do not always say that “we do”, “we do” et cetera, as Minister of Finance always remember that this money you manage is the money of taxpayers who have to work very hard for it, which does not have to work like teachers 15 to 20 hours a week, but which sometimes employs 60 hours a week, until they have to work hard into the night! – And you go here and you just make a redistribution, which is not targeting and economical. [[OBJECTIVES]] We have – and this is also the painful – one thing to expect, namely that these budget figures you have presented will not vote and will not be able to vote. You assume that in this year we will make 3.5 percent and next year 4.7 percent deficit – knowing that the OECD, which is not any organization in Paris, but one you have to take seriously, tells you that next year you will make a deficit of 7.7 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Madness!]] You will be given a deficit procedure from the EU, Minister of Finance. They will be put under Kuratel for the next few years. The only hopeful thing – I have to say today – for us is that the EU will not simply let you go through it, that the EU will impose on you that the EU will tell you where you have to make reforms. This will be the only positive. I believe that in view of the enormous unemployment rates, which will be painful this year and next year – 500 000, 600 000; the figures do not come from us; I always hear these figures from colleagues of the government parties – if you only add these unemployment costs to the budget if you count the interest on the new debt into the budget, Austria will get a problem in credit rating and credit and pay more interest for the huge debt you make as finance ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: So I don't think that's positive!]] [[Abg. Kickl: This is an interesting aspect, Mr. Cot!]] The spaces of motion are getting tighter and tighter, you just have to recognize that. The scope of movement is becoming ever closer, and if you do not really recognize the signs of time and finally show the zeal for reform that you have to put forward, then you will not bring about any significant changes in the field of health policy, education policy, administration and further drive this blockade. You are then not a crisis designer, Mr Finanzminister, but you are mutating as the mass administrator of the Republic, and we must not allow this, ladies and gentlemen, to happen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want a modern state, we want a powerful state of Austria. We have made a number of proposals in the last few weeks and months, you have always pointed out that these reforms are finally being started and not pushed to the long bank. They have repeatedly talked about the high potential for savings in the field of education, in the field of administration, in the field of health insurance. They produce the money without even requiring reforms, changes and savings. This cannot be the system of healthy and successful economy in Austria! Finally, we need a fair tax system, ladies and gentlemen, and it is a threat to say by Mr Hundstorfer that we are already talking about a new tax package, a tax on property. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the thought that we are gradually preparing for. A new load package will be available to citizens over the next few years. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Class fight!]] [[Abg. Petzner: Not with us!]] That is what you are now planning in the silent chamber with this tax reform: not reforms, not savings that the Court of Auditors has set before you in recent years, no, you want to continue to burden the citizens. They are already beginning this year: with the acquisition of the vignette, with the acquisition of the ÖBB tickets. At the same time, send the managers to the street, at the same time send them the premiums afterwards, at the same time tolerate that the ÖBB make 900 million € loss, speculate 600 million €. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Where's your conscience? Where is the economic competence of the ÖVP? – I gradually wonder. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, recognize that these economic packages are not grasping! Recognize that the bank rescue package misses its effect! Finally, recognize that the economy in the present phase needs impetus, hope and confidence! Every day in the media we hear horrors and horror news from the economy that cannot encourage us. We need investment incentives and incentives that reach people and the economy, investment impulses. For example, if you take the money away from the BIG and at the same time talk about investing € 870 million, how is that supposed to work together? Now the BIG has to take up money – €250 million from the banks, from the Raiffeisenbank – and at the same time pay €10 million interest again. This is the completely wrong way! They should invest in the economy and not favour the banks. This is not a policy of confidence and not a policy of hope. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is really inconceivable!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, you finally recognize the serious situation! Finish the short work and finally take action so that the Austrians can enjoy their well-deserved future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3903	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. Also 13 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3924	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, In the past, Alexander Van der Bellen always considered the success of the budget debate to be the green club. He was always very bad cheering on these days, and with today I can understand this very well. In fact, if you want to reconcile what you actually find in these few kilograms of numbers with what is being said about the budget speech in terms of content, then you will find an incredible injustice. There is some sort of manipulative operation with wrong numbers, as apples are mixed with pears, once this is about increases in percent, then again about increases in absolute numbers. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] What we heard yesterday has nothing to do with truth, with seriality or with honesty at all, and this is annoying. I understand very well today how you always did after that night when you tried to look at this convolut. [[Abg. Großruck: It would be better if Mr. Van der Bellen spoke!]] The bad thing about this is that it simply prevents a reasonable discussion on necessary measures, on a focus, on important things, because so much is manipulated and twisted that you, Mr Finanzminister, should no longer use the term “ordinary merchant”, because you really lack the honesty. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yesterday, the economic researchers were completely superfluously considered with several sides. They were the bearers of the bad news. For several weeks, those who said something else a few months ago have been revising down. They just deliver messages. The fact is, you haven't heard for months that you still assumed quite a few other economic forecasts in February, in March. They are now presenting a double budget, where we have a new budgetary right, and in fact the insanity of double budgets should have been proved! We need more flexibility right now. Just now, where you say, all the stutterers in the murky, present a double budget, and still shudder in excess the economic researchers for delivering bad news. I don't know if this is a good start to a discussion. The heading for the budget is “champfansage to the crisis”. In terms of content, it's not exactly that. It is a capitulation before the most bitter effect of the crisis, namely unemployment. Poverty reduction and social misery will be completely ignored, and we will now again be very precise as to why this is so. You claimed yesterday that no one will be left in the rain. – That is, unfortunately, wrong, and that is the bitterness of this budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not just a matter of fighting for every job, on the contrary: Additional unemployment is very high. In fact, in 2011, 100 000 unemployed will be purchased, and even additional unemployment will be produced by the federal government, by public authorities: You save on discretionary expenditure, i.e. you save on social, cultural, educational and female projects. They also save jobs directly in the public sector and are even proud to produce 1 820 unemployed. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Administrative reform!]] [[Abg. Großruck: Van der Bellen would have been better!]] In the important areas where investment is currently being discussed in many other countries – environmental protection, care, childcare, education, universities – no additional jobs are created. No, you simply take 50 percent growth in unemployment. And then you are still proud of your labour market budget, which is just growing by 8 percent. This is a drop on the hot stone and lets this phrase “take control of additional money ” actually stand as a real word aid. At the same time, unemployment aid will not be increased, at the same time emergency aid will not be increased, but at the same time the basic guarantee, the minimum guarantee, will be postponed once again to Sankt Nimerlestag. This means taking additional social misery, additional impoverishment in Austria, consciously buying, and that is definitely the wrong way! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A Christian-social budget today was the headline. It is an ÖVP budget, only: it has nothing to do with Christian and social. [[Abg. Booker: Catholic!]] A sentence from you was very significant yesterday, Minister of Finance: We must not suggest to people that they can give their own responsibility to the state like the coat on the wardrobe, because this would have far-reaching negative consequences for the entire economy. Who are you talking about now? Are you concerned about the economy, or are you concerned about the people? They say there's no difference. But they make a very big difference between people. Bank security package – okay, you made it. 10 billion € guarantees for the industry – okay, you have made. We'll find it that way. 10 billion € loans for Eastern European countries to support a new opportunity now in the budget accompanying law – quite okay, you have done that. Disclaimer for bank managers, for the ÖIAG bank managers – you have made. Furthermore, bonus payments for managers who have produced a deficit at the ÖBB – do so. Limits of salary for managers – reject! At the same time, just the small and medium-sized enterprises, the micro- and micro-enterprises, which have less than ten employees, are completely in the rain. There you go with incredible brutality. [[Abg. Head: What?]] Now income tax prepayment certificates are sent where – in times like this! – automatically assumes a profit increase of 5 percent for this year. They now get all their income tax prepayment decisions with plus 5 percent. [[Abg. Head: Free profit! You can lower the advance payment! Request for reduction!]] At the moment, they can't do anything. So far, take care of it. They are about the big ones, and they are quite brutal against the 650 000 people in these micro and micro-enterprises, all standing with their backs to the wall. Great differences between people! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: The opposite is the case!]] Where is the investment actually made? From our point of view, too little investment and wrong investment is being made. The very large areas of the future will be excluded from us. – In the US alone, €2.5 billion will only be invested in the conversion to hybrid vehicles and electric vehicles. Climate protection is no longer an issue. Renewable energy is no longer a topic. Additional jobs in the field of care are no longer a topic. At the Free Kindergarten you will see what really remains. It is no longer a matter of dealing with people in addition. What happens if you bring the economic packages you are so proud of into line with the figures now found, for example, in the budget report on page 82? Mr. Kopf, you are so proud of the economic package, the €800 million that the Federal Property Company will invest in construction projects. In the naked figures there are no €800 million, on the contrary: [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because it's a shame!]] There is an increase of 0.3 to 0.5 percent, that is, € 400 million – not even half in two years! I wonder, What's that? Is that a reading error? Or is that this unreasonableness? – You talk something nice, you just say manipulatively anything, and in the budget you won't find it again in any way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: This is Christian-social!]] [[Call the Greens:Grasser budget!]] They are proud of the tax reform, to €3.2 billion. You are proud that you will create 12 000 jobs. Okay, that's good, 12,000 jobs are important. However, half of this tax reform, this volume is just burned money. [[Abg. Head: What half do you mean?]] It's burned money because it's not economic at all. With only a single billion in climate action, for example in building renovations, you create 15 000 jobs, and with a single billion in the public sector, you create 25 000 jobs with direct employment – in the areas mentioned above: Care, education and childcare. 25,000 jobs! [[Abg. Head: What half of the tax reform is unnecessary?]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: oversight!]] [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] The third or half of the tax reform that relieves the lower or medium incomes is economic. Over a certain limit, it is no longer economic, it is divided. It's burned money. In this situation, in which you simply destroy additional jobs, it is irrational and simply wrong. It's burned money, it's not responsible and it's the wrong way. It is capitulation before the most bitter effect of the crisis, namely unemployment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yesterday, the Minister of Finance also tried to ask a bit of the debt question: Who is to blame for this financial crisis now? And he landed at the U.S. bashing, at the American housekeeper. They're to blame! The American housekeeper is to blame! [[Abg. They forced our banks to step in!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I find this levelless and tasteless! By the way: To wash our hands in innocence like Pontius Pilate and to say that we have never participated in any deregulation policy of the financial markets, we have represented a completely different philosophy, that was the evil Americans!, that is really a nonsense. That's really nonsens! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A few examples: They were very vehement in pension provision, the pensioners of the future have driven to the stock markets. This was a black and blue policy of the year 2000, a rather drastic policy! Yeah, you've benefited from this tax. They have taxed stock options for top managers, which has significantly contributed to the explosion of these top salaries and that stock prices are also deliberately driven up. You can observe this internationally very well. They abolished or suspended the exchange rate tax in Austria in 2000. Every person pays a VAT on the purchase of a food, on the use of a service, or when he consumes energy in Austria, but not on the purchase of securities. Why is that? So that a Karl-Heinz Grasser can't earn more than €10 million in 17 months? Is that the background? What's that supposed to mean? You have been very much involved in this deregulation policy, and you have also very probably not been committed to reasonable rules across the EU and internationally, but have simply been involved in the game. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is the Meinl-grasser economic course!]] The second heading of the budget is called the Roadmap for the Future, and you really have to look for this roadmap for the future. I actually see it as a ghost train ride, because you're talking about the most important question that is now no longer important, namely: Who will pay for consolidation? Who pays for the crisis? Who will pay this in the future? Especially the ÖVP, which is not afraid to picture and overwrite children in baby diapers: You're dreaming of our future! – that was the case in the summer – there is now no answer or says that it is completely irrelevant who will somehow consolidate these debts and this deficit. I mean, you're gonna be allowed to talk about it. Mr Molterer now looks so anxious. He has handed over the budget with a debt ratio of not quite 60 percent. At the end of the Pröll era – if it lasts until the end of 2013 – we are almost 80 percent debt ratio. There you have to look anxiously, and as you are now, you have to start thinking about where the money should come from if you do not want to bind drastic savings packages! Then to say, you don't go into a distribution discussion, you don't look at whether you can open up new sources of revenue, that's white negligence, and it's also extremely unfair! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They are the only person in this Republic, Mr. Finanzminister, who cannot recognize the uneven distribution of assets that is talking about the medium-sized world if 10 percent of the population owns two thirds of the assets. And you say they want to protect you. You want to protect the middle class. Who do you really want to protect? So I don't know if this is a fair discussion when you say that the entire tax burden is to be imposed on the working people. Those who earn “hard” – under quotations – from capital revenues are protected by the ÖVP. [[Abg. Head: It's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Capital Income Tax! ... never heard!]] They're always talking about hard work, and wealth can't be taxed. This is very hard worked out if you can reach 10 million euros in 17 months. [[Abg. Head: Do you know how high the capital income tax is?]] So to keep in mind a little of the relationships between income from capital and work, perhaps to move a little, that would be a reasonable access, which would also be good for the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They are the only person to talk about a broad property tax in the field of property tax. That's a total nonsense! Please stick to the truth! Keep Please take a look at the reality and see the assets that we can actually take back in Austria! [[Abg. May. Molterer: A embarrassing speech!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Give us Van der Bellen back!]] They're always talking about us being great here internationally. However, we are at the international level in the field of capital taxation, and if we only go to the EU-15 average – the EU-15 are really similar to us, they have a similar economic structure and so on – then we would have a potential of €4.5 billion. 10 percent of the population, that's all! [[Abg. Head: The most common asset tax is the basic tax! Is that what you want?]] 90 percent remain completely unscathed. Do you take note of this? Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4347	Mr Faymann is now speaking. Agreed are 10 minutes speaking time. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4368	Mr President! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that if someone wants to know about our budget and our budget speech what arrangements we are making to strengthen employment again in the crisis and in times of crisis, and to take action against unemployment, most people want to know what measures are being taken and whether these measures are sufficient. In fact, we have made a great effort. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance has outlined in great detail all the areas in which we are making a effort to increase the budget deficit, which, in terms of figures, then increases the budget deficit. Today, we know the whole world and Europe as a whole, we are only able, through additional funds, additional expenditure, employment programmes and economic programmes, to counter an economic crisis and thus not simply to ignore unemployment, but to keep it as low as possible. In addition, the most important thing in a crisis is to keep it short. That is to say, these increased resources, which we have used by reducing the rate reform and additional budget expenditure even in difficult times, are not feasible for all eternity, especially as reduced revenue is on the other hand. In an economic crisis situation, however, it is the duty of the hour to promote employment and combat unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If not now, when will the Social Minister prepare an employment guarantee, a training guarantee for young people? Now it is necessary to tell the farms: Strengthen apprenticeship training in autumn! Do not try to reduce the savings programmes carried out in many sectors also due to the lack of orders in the order books by reducing apprenticeship training! Together with the companies, we assume the responsibility to prepare a high-quality training for young people in autumn. Where the economy itself is unable to create this, where the many businesses that are exemplary are to be mentioned, because they give great importance even in critical times of training young people, they do not manage to get there by means of additional resources of active labour market administration and through training guarantees. Where people do not know how to deal with the reduced funds available to them for life, there we have a minimum guarantee to prepare. Where people do not have unemployment insurance funds, we have to consider and prepare both an increase and an active intervention, through training and retraining measures, and not to watch unemployment rise. But let me say just a few words, since the BZÖ representative also spoke about the great crisis. There were 250,000 unemployed in April 2005 – under your government participation – and today there are 252,000 unemployed. Every unemployed person is one too much, but that you can do it with your economic policy at the time – and this can be done They see them quietly together as BZÖ and FPÖ – “all too well” is to come to a booth where we are now, in the middle of the economic crisis, we should tell people that too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Among your economic concepts, which we heard yesterday: So we are going to take 1 per cent of people who deserve more than the Federal President, on wage and income tax. In fact, we want to burden work and burden wealth. [[Abg. Grosz: You suffer from loss of reality, Federal Chancellor!]] All right. We're supposed to pick up 1 percent. [[Abg. Strache: You don't even agree to give up on 4 percent! That is what you are voting against.]] But the FPÖ cannot even say how much more people should pay and what it is. Then Professor Van der Bellen comes out and expects you – embarrassing for you! –, you want to clean up the economy of this country with €8 million! Mr Strache, we have seen what really is in line with your economic concepts. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is superiority!]] [[Abg. Strache: You even agree to give up on 4 per cent! Even against it, you vote! Just put in and strip every cent of the gage! This Chancellor has no social responsibility!]] Therefore, we prefer our economic concepts, which will also have to be tested, whether we are in the OECD at the social rate – do you know what a social ratio is?! – are among the three best countries. [[Abg. Strache: But you know it, Federal Chancellor!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] And our programme, our budget, our number-based policy will be responsible for whether we are among the three best countries, whether social networks, whether those security that the population expects of us, in education, in training, in people who become unemployed, in health policy, in the safety of individuals, whether the health care remains manageable and financeable. [[Abg. Strache: He cannot explain the social ratio, the Federal Chancellor!]] That's what we're measured by! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stache: The Lord of Stress Chancellors!]] I say to you, out of deep conviction: This, ladies and gentlemen, will not only be done by thinking about tax justice. Tax justice is always an essential contribution in our society, but we will also need reforms that carefully review expenditure, because the tax, which eliminates all problems, allows all additional expenditure and best meets no one, there is no such thing! That is why we will have to make the effort, in addition to a structural tax reform committee, which also has to carry out a discharge of the middle classes, to look very closely at the issue of fiscal justice. And in one you're quite right: I therefore have confidence in this government, because I am convinced that together with the social partners, together with the federal states, there are savings to be made with those responsible in our Republic where they are possible so that we can have the money where we urgently need it. [[Abg. Strache: But the citizens no longer have confidence in you and this government, in these embarrassing things that are going on! The citizen has not expressed your confidence in the last election! – The loser of the last National Council election!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You are right, Mrs Glawischnig, who has referred to this, and also in the public contributions that have come more often: If you do not re-occupy with retirement, how does that not cost jobs? – Yes, sometimes public savings are necessary because, on the other hand, we urgently need more people, more expenditure and more financial resources to secure pensions, to improve education and training and to secure health care. [[Abg. Kickl: You should send it to General Motors!]] Sometimes you have to cut, save and try to achieve the same performance with less where you now have expenditure, in order to achieve other qualities in our country. And this includes education policy with total additional expenditure of 800 million for the next two years. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Why is education policy such a key to the question as we are preparing in a crisis to keep our country competitive for the future and thus for a time of economic upturn? We agree that there is no money in education, that we are in education to ensure smaller groups... – I even start with the kindergarten: Child care has an important function in our country, including in promoting the skills of young people. We can now offer more free places in the federal states, but not enough. Therefore, many citizens ask us: Free is not bad, but where is this place? So it is about expanding childcare facilities, reducing the number of school students, improving school forms, commitment to education – we are only at the beginning of the reforms. And there, too, these 800 million will only be a first step towards a school of equal opportunities, to a school of opportunities for the next generation, to a school of opportunities for young people in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It is in school, it is in education, it has been increased in social and other areas as well as in the budget, but joint efforts must be as strong as joint efforts in reform and in saving.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4608	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll, also with an agreed 10-minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4630	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Above all, the many spectators who came here today, and also those in front of the television screens! One day after the presentation of the budget, the time has come not only to put emotions into space, but also to say thank you – the taxpayers who, with their tax performance, create the basis for a budget planning, which will create the space for what is now possible through the policy we have put into figures. Thank you very much for this day. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. I'll get them in the bag.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday I presented the key points of our budget planning for 2009/2010 and for the first time also the budget perspective in the House by 2013. We have decided in four months – in record time!, the government has been in office since the beginning of December – a four-year plan, a double budget, the largest tax reform in the last decades and two business packages, including a bank package to stabilise savings deposits. In record time! In such a short time, no other federal government has launched such a convoluted trend – economic packages, tax reform and a double budget. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glavischnig asked: Why a double budget? The figures are changing all the time! – There’s also an open word. You know very well that if we only decided on the 2009 budget today, we would have to enter into negotiations immediately, because we already have the 2010 budget to decide in October. This is what the House has set out in the budgetary legislation. Now explain to me why we should wait a few weeks to start negotiations for 2010. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We now have April!]] It will not have changed much, and that is why it makes sense to put the perspective on the table for these two years now. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It won't have changed much?- Oh, my God!]] I also gave a detailed opinion yesterday on the political focus within this budget. The Federal Chancellor has also referred to the fact that, in a crisis situation like now, the issue of combating unemployment of course has absolute priority. This happens not only by increasing the resources we provide for active and passive labour market policies, but also by innovation in the field of short-term work models. In this way, we help in a wise solution that people are kept in employment, with a cost-sharing between businesses, the people who give up part of the working time, and the federal government which provides a grant. We have also gone new ways in extending this model. These are the right measures: Now invest money to keep people in employment – and not manage unemployment! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why we increase labour market spending from € 4.28 billion in 2008 to € 5.86 billion in 2010. In education, the second major focus, a focus for our children: After the debate on the figures of the last few days, after the debates on the law of the service, after all that was technically associated with it, the time now comes to think about the future and discuss it: What do children need in this country in terms of quality of education? What do our teachers need to have in the future in training so that we are competitive in the international environment and make the right investment for the best education of our children? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We increase the education budget by € 378 million compared with 2008. That means: 1 billion more for education in Austria by 2013. As a result of declining student numbers and the increase in the budget, the €1,000 is more per student in 2013. This can be seen, even in the clear political focus, which we make quite consciously accordingly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 1 000 € per student?- Oh, my God!]] Two issues I would like to address are science and research. For science and research, there are plus 40 percent, and I took the media yesterday and today that there is also a clear signal from the scientific and research scene in this regard. One might have wished for even more, but this is the area which, with a 40 percent increase, receives a clear signal at a time of crisis that we are also preparing ourselves, especially in these months and years, to be more competitive through a technology and development shift after the crisis than other countries. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fourth point: Even in these times, we do not forget the inner and outer security. We invest as much as never before – in the prevention, in the fight against crime, in the tasks that the country, the state has also given in terms of internal and external security also in the defence of the country. We increase to €5.6 billion in 2009 and €5.7 billion in 2010. One point I would like to address is that the debate is coming out because it is very important to me: Has the Federal Government done enough? And: What is the Federal Government's investment in deficit development and debt planning? Even if some say now that we should have spent much more money – for business packages, tax reform at other levels – I would remind you that you, exactly you who demand it, on the other hand, say: The debts run out of the row! Too much debt is made for the future of our children! The deficits are becoming so high. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I must return to the foundations of economy: Whoever spends money and has no stock has to go to the debt collection. And that's why we're developing this concept with a clear signal: Yes, we believe in deficits of up to 4.7 percent in the crisis. But we also believe that there is one thing we need – and we will not need the European Union on the issue of how we get back, as some say: We will send the signal to the public at some time, and we have also agreed politically, of course, to make the deficits and the debt development clear once we have enough strength, after crisis management. And with the upsurge we will have to take the right measures, from the administrative reform we are dealing with, to measures also in the country's expenditure structure. We have made this confession, and we will keep it. But now we are helping vigorously, and then it is going to be more important than we are now. An exceptional situation also requires exceptional answers. Ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks before a debate on the election to the European Parliament only briefly: Let us look at the facts and facts! Where would we be today without the European Union? Where would we be without a euro zone? The euro is the stable anchor in crisis management. It's all around us. Currencies are depreciated. Countries come to the edge of economic ability. The euro area is stable. Europe and the euro are the right answer, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have to do with the challenge. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Data, facts!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Finally, one more thing: Austria has a bonus. [[Abg. Bookbooker: You've already played it!]] Due to the wise financial and economic planning of recent years, we are going into a development in which we have an advantage and in which it is also necessary to bring this advantage safely through the crisis. That is why I appeal to you once again to take care of it – after yesterday and also after the remarks made by some here from the opposition, to which cracks and other issues are obviously more important than the question of the balance of the state budget. [[Abg. Strache: They serve you, and that's why you're endangering the budget!]] Mr. Strache, you don't need to get nervous here. Today, they have seamlessly classified themselves in the “support” of Nobel laureate Krugman, namely, in the criticism of Austria. Okay, let's take note of this. But you have forgotten that the head of the Monetary Fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, and also the head of the Euro-Group, who better know because they have to do with it every day, have said the opposite: Austria is stable. Austria does not need to be approached, even by you, but we have presented stable prospects with the double budget. [[Abg. Strache: That's exactly your method!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Strache, I would also like to ask you, apart from the political emotions: See also and know that on the international financial markets every political statement that is given politically has an economic impact. And the effect means no more and no less than that if you agree to the crisis and make Austria bad, we will have to pay more interest for our public debt because Austria's credit quality is suffering from such statements – and not from the facts. It is very important that we also do this, because there is time too tense and the crisis too deep to turn even more down this screw with populist statements.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4868	The speakers of the next political groups each have a speaking time of 6 minutes. As First of all, Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4892	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The questions I am asked when I am in the constituency, when speaking, at events, at citizens' assemblies, are, above all,: What does politics do, what can politics do, what does SPÖ do to make school better? What does politics do, what is the SPÖ doing so that the crisis is as short as possible? What does it do against unemployment? What does politics do, what does SPÖ do for greater justice in this country? [[Abg. Bucher: We ask ourselves what the SPÖ is doing!]] These are the questions which, I believe, we as politicians should also ask ourselves, and we should also give the right answers to these questions. What education minister Schmied says, what the SPÖ says about education policy is simple: We want a better school. We want smaller classes so that more time for each student remains. We want better language support – that is why the compulsory kindergarten year should be used, and that is why more money should also be spent on language promotion throughout schooling, because the language is the key to all other areas of education. She also says: We want more equal opportunities for the children. And that is why we want the common school in Austria not to end after four years, but to last eight years, and that is why there is also the New Secondary School. This means that Minister Schmied and SPÖ have the right answers to the question: How can we improve the training of our children? How can we improve the school in Austria? The questions: What to do about the economic crisis? What do we do against high unemployment?, policy also gives several answers. One is that as a republic we simply invest money – directly, in the street, in the rail. This also has an added value that we don't have to travel from Vienna to Salzburg for three, three-quarters of hours by train, but in the future only more than two hours, that we don't have to drive from Vienna to Klagenfurt for four and a half hours or five hours, but two hours, two-quarters of hours, and at the same time we also create jobs directly, as well as the investments in thermal renovation. What we do further: If a company has problems in the field of orders, we will finance short-time work to ensure that people remain in employment. And when people lose their jobs, we spend a lot of money on active labour market policies so that we can use the time of unemployment for qualification measures so that those concerned have the chance to get a better job in the future, a safe job, possibly also associated with more money. I think these are also the right answers that we give to the question: What do we do about the crisis and what do we do against the high level of unemployment? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On what policy does the SPÖ do for more justice: There you have to look at how we tax different types of income today. If you earn your money today through interest, dividends, stock speculation, so by letting others work, you pay between 0 and 25 percent taxes and taxes. On the other hand, if you go to work for your income, you pay 30, 40, 50 percent taxes. We find that extremely unfair, and it is also unfair. What we are doing now through the tax reform is to relieve the people who work for their money and lower taxes in this area. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's not true for most!]] Yes, further steps are possible, because it is not only about reducing taxes on work, but also about the fact that those who receive their income by letting others work or supposedly making their money work also make a fair contribution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is the debate on so-called asset taxes. We say that this is about justice, not only about justice now in the crisis, in bad times, but about justice on every question, and justice knows no economy. You can be sure that the SPÖ is not only in the crisis for greater justice in taxation, but also in good times, and that it will ensure that we develop the tax system more justly so that this inequality, this injustice that we have today, is brought into a proper balance. That's what we stand for, and that's what we can rely on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As we are discussing the budget here today, we are also dealing with the question: What does the budget say? The budget says, yes, there is more money for small classes, yes, there is more money for language promotion, yes, there is the necessary money for the further development of the New Middle School. That means, yes, there is more money for the education sector, and yes, there is more money for public investment and thus directly for jobs. There is the money needed for short-time work so that we can keep people in employment as much as possible. There is more money in the field of active labour market policy and qualification. Yes, there is more money for the fight against unemployment and the crisis, and yes, the taxes for those who go to work will be reduced. That is a good thing, and that is why we will vote in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4963	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4984	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! First of all, I would like to say quite openly that I am really very horrified about some of the contributions to the debate today. If Mrs Glawischnig, who has already left the hall, says that in Austria only the work is taxed, capital is not taxed, and does not know that we have a capital income tax that brings almost €4 billion, which every small savings book owner pays, then it is actually a recognition of facts and data. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We are talking about the great power that protects you!]] If Mr Strache, who is no longer there, calls an important industry which secures tens of thousands of jobs such a devastation as a gable cross-crack, then that is the lowest level. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's right!]] I must reject this with all my determination; I am in favour of such debates in today's debate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the content itself: The budget is a crisis budget, which we heard yesterday, no question at all. The time of a crisis is not the time of fiscal consolidation, no question at all. I believe that Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance are right when he says that the challenge is: mastering the first crisis, strengthening the second economy, helping people. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And lose 4th election!]] The three major objectives – Mr Westenthaler, that is not fun, these are serious work by the government and also by this House – are to stabilise the financial markets, to develop second strategies for growth and employment, and third, Cap has also mentioned it in his speech, to find the balance between stability in the government budget and the necessary growth and purchasing power impulses that need to be set. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the stupid one who has always spoken against the debts? Where's the real stupid?]] We have responded very quickly here, ladies and gentlemen. In October, we decided on the bank package, not for the banks, but for the small savers whose deposits are to be secured, for small and medium-sized enterprises, which again need loans for their investments, for confidence in financial markets. – That was the aim of this bank package! We made two economic packages very quickly: Economics Package I, Economics Package II and Tax Reform – both together €6 billion. Shouldn't we have done that? Then the budget deficit would have been only 1.5 percent instead of 3.5. However, it would have been irresponsible not to put these measures into practice. We need the increase in purchasing power. We need these initiatives for growth and employment. If in this crisis there is a truly encouraging figure, then the, ladies and gentlemen: This year, net real income will rise by 3.5 percent on average, as a result of high pay statements in the previous year, as a result of the fall in inflation and as a result of tax relief. In times of crisis a net real income increase of 3.5 percent is a very encouraging signal. This too should be said in times of crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only today has the National Bank pointed out that these incentives for growth and employment will promote economic growth by a three-quarters percentage point, thus securing or re-establishing 25 000 jobs. A great success in the interests of jobs and employment in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would like to admit that the current crisis fight is one thing, and the second major challenge for the next few years is to tackle the costs of this crisis. Mr Pröll said yesterday that the next few years will not be a walk. That was a very kind formulation. I would, of course, very brutally formulate it: We are required, and it will require a national power act – and I call on everyone, not to change political coins, but to take a lead – that not the interest rates of those measures that we are rightly setting today will waste the future of our children. This is the challenge of the next few years, and we need structural reforms that apply to all areas of the state budget. Saving applies to all areas, only: Saving does not mean saving on health, saving at the expense of safety, saving on education, but saving means using the resources for these areas as efficiently as possible. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Explain this to your country leaders!]] Mr President, I do not know any area where there is no complaint about bureaucracy: The police complain about bureaucracy, the teachers complain about bureaucracy, the doctors complain about bureaucracy. There are potential savings and we are required to benefit accordingly in the next few years. I have a request to all the members of the government, ladies and gentlemen: You can never do reforms against those affected, you always have to do them with those affected! You can't make a health reform against the doctors. You can't make an educational reform against the teachers. You can only make a reform by creating problem awareness among the affected groups and integrating them into the reform efforts. I also say quite openly, a reform approach according to the motto, I tell a large group about the media, you have to work two hours longer, is difficult to counterproductive, no question at all. So you can talk about a lot of content, but this process is simply counterproductive. I really appeal to all the members of the government to pay attention to each of them in their field: Reforms are only with those concerned and not with those concerned! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I often ask you to adhere to this principle, because these structural reforms are necessary – I say quite brutally – because the interest rates for those measures that we are rightly setting today should not irresponsibly affect the future of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5107	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5128	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! So the crisis or what you think is going to do is obviously dominating this entire budget debate. We heard this yesterday in Joseph’s “presence” to the disciple Pröll, and today this is also like a red thread through the contributions, whether from the opposition or from the government. It's a crisis budget we're dealing with here. Of course, we have to ask ourselves what meaning this word “crisis” has in this context. On the one hand, I believe that this crisis is meant by, of course, the one that – you have to call things by name – has gone from the United States, but, of course, with the European Union's decisive support, which has danced around the Golden Calb of Neoliberalism, and which is now waving in over Austria and has already been responsible for an ordinary pile of innocent victims. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are millions of people suffering now. People suffer as short-time workers, they suffer as unemployed people, and they suffer as those who are pushed back and forth by SPÖ and ÖVP into senseless AMS courses. As a pensioner affected by poverty, they suffer as single mothers with their children. You can't just wipe that off the table! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you know very well that the list of these victims is getting longer from day to day; this list was by no means complete. But this is only the one side of this crisis, because we have heard from Mr Klubobmann Cap today, expressing, not your ability to resolve, but the deep crisis in the content of this federal government itself, that this is the one side of this crisis – and that makes the whole thing even worse – which takes place for two years, of course, including those cast into words and figures. This budget, as it was yesterday. has been presented and how it is today a bit further divided, without there being real clarity in many areas, is nothing but the condition of an expression of helplessness. It is the condition of an expression of renunciation and half-heartedness and, not to be forgotten, essentially also the proof of unfavorable moral execution, although that would have been necessary in many areas. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's not a coincidence, and it's not a single loser that in days like this, where it's not going back and front together, we'll discuss whether premiums payments are paid to managers of the ÖBB, for example. And also addressed to the SPÖ: I think it is interesting to be here and to hold debates on distribution justice under the new name “structural tax reform” or otherwise, but at the same time the own country party in Upper Austria holds a foundation. Mr Klubobmann Cap, perhaps you can explain to us what the SPÖ Oberösterreich needs for a tax-saving foundation and how this goes with your claim to create itself here and work for distribution justice! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, from our liberal point of view, you are making a mistake: You say on one side of your line of argument that we have to deal with the worst crisis, with the most difficult situation since the 1930s – and you're even right about red and black – but then you can't brand those as black painters in the same breath, just like us liberals, who demand that you respond to this exceptional situation accordingly, with proper weight, with repressive, sustainability and the right course of change, who say goodbye to your placebo methods, to your homeopathic approaches and to your course, which you can call nothing else than white Der-Crise-Hinterwurschseln, without ever being able to catch them! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with your beautiful speech, how you operate it, no one is really helping, except perhaps a few managers in the banking sector. For example, they deliberately reduce the dangers from the outstanding East credits. You're pretending to be nothing. At the same time, however, you park and block €100 billion in an area that cannot be attacked, although you would urgently need money from this area for other things. This money is missing for labour market policy, this money is missing for the relief of small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is therefore missing because it is really necessary to ensure the back cover for the failure of managers in the East and to ensure that not everything in a huge black hole – and this black hole is not an astronomical expression, but rather a political expression; I can also say that it is a black and yellow hole – will be swallowed up, which is produced in Austria in economic performance at all. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Stop saying that this is about saving Austrian banks! If you save an Austrian bank that is in Italian possession and the Austrian taxpayer has to spend millions and billions on it, this is a strange interpretation of what is still an Austrian bank. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have made a big mistake in the past: They have hesitated and sowed where, in times of good economic activity, it would have been necessary to immediately strike, to relieve people of appropriate support measures. Then you wouldn't have to wait for that now. Maybe some effects occur in a few weeks or a few months, then we would have this effect already. You would have already immunized people against part of this crisis if you had done so, for example in the family sector, in the area of purchasing power increase, for which there have been many, many free proposals that you have all erased from the table. You have already called out almost the state bankruptcy when it went by €150 million for the abolition of the study fees – but now you are smearing around with hundreds of billions of dollars! Don't you notice that all of this doesn't fit together in the back and in the front?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One word on the subject... – I am coming to the conclusion. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] If you have tried to spread something similar to confidence with this budget you have presented, then you can only say: You have failed with this attempt – not because we are opposed to you in principle, but because there is simply no viable foundation in this paper and this convolut, as the Minister of Finance has called it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5254	Now comes Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5276	Madam President. High house! I originally wanted to give another speech in relation to the presentation of your budget yesterday, Mr Vice-Chancellor, only, the previous course of debate also forces me, my colleague, to change my speech. Mr. Strache, it is very easily recognizable – and this will have been recognized by every viewer who has watched today – in whose order you are already getting out of here for a time and at least once have to bubble raiffeisen at every plenary session. [[Abg. Strache: Now comes the Strache-Phobie again!]] This is easily recognizable, in whose order you do this, for everyone easily recognizable! But I'm pretty sure that the pulsity with which you're doing this is already unpleasant to your client. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Abg. Strache: The black defender of duty!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to be criticised by the system banks in Austria. We don't care what's happening in the East either; I want to say that quite clearly. This will still concern us, at other times, on another occasion, but not on the budget. This will probably still be a matter of concern to us – unfortunately, I say. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Don't be!]] Mustn't be, but I'm afraid that'll be so. But if not! To make the son-in-law of a bank director on the subject in a budget debate, because one has nothing to say about the budget itself, which was remarkable to make a bank chat, that was revealing. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It was revealing that he did not think anything about the other system banks at all; apart from the fact that he missed the subject. Only to a system bank does he have something on his hands, and there is a clear indication of whose order is behind it. He had nothing to say about the budget. The Seppi Booker was the first to really make a substantial contribution to the budget. That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, if you only had this opposition, then you would really have nothing to fear, really not! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: The black defender of duty!]] That's what we saw yesterday! Maybe it's a good thing if we say that to the audience, too: Yesterday, the FPÖ, Mr Strache, proposed that the tax rate should be reduced by around 4 per cent – I quote literally from the request. On the question of Mr Van der Bellen, he was not even able to say how many billions these are. He didn't know, it's millions, it's billions. He didn't know! But for his own people, to suggest science, he put a footnote, which is meant by 42.8 percent, namely: Tax and actual social contributions; in brackets: only compulsory contributions. – It's supposed to suggest scientificity! [[Abg. Strache: This strache phobia really needs to be treated seriously!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You are the greatest political Pharisee this republic has ever seen!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You didn't deserve it any more! If you have a budget debate today, you are overwhelmed, that's the problem because you don't know yourself! That's what we've found today. And then you'll come with a bank chatter. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Col. Cap, what people have heard from you today was pure political speech. Minus growth – this is exactly the political speech that no one understands anymore. What's a minus growth? Yesterday also in the budget speech: Minus growth. Tell the people that this is a shrinking economy, that's degression, that's a step back, that's a reduction in economic performance – not minus growth! This seems to me to be the so-called negative purchase price for the AUA, where we are actually indebted. Let's call things by name! Name: We expect a shrinking economy, we expect less performance in the tax pots, so we expect a strained budget situation, and we therefore expect a new debt. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now we have a debt ratio of almost 70 percent of the gross domestic product – 68.5 percent are forecast; It will be 70 percent. To let people know what this is: This means that 70 percent of the total benefits that this country provides in one year are actually bound by debt! I emphasize: 70 percent, that's a huge amount, ladies and gentlemen! And since it is no good to always only conjure up voodoo-ly the European Union, because this European Union – and this is really an accusation that you have to make – has known for years and days that the crisis is coming to us! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For seven or eight years, the well-known representatives of the American Federal Reserve have said: The crisis is coming, it's just not quite sure when – but it's coming! There is nothing in the European Union – I stress: nothing at all! – to prepare for this crisis. This is an accusation to be made by the EU. This accusation is to be made to her because this would have been a task that could have been done better at EU level or as a preparation than at state level. But they're not doing anything right there! Instead, the European Union is talking about whether you can still say "Mademoiselle" and "Women" whether you can screw in a light bulb or not what curvature the banana is supposed to have. But they had nothing left for crisis prevention. Only when the crisis is there will they play a major crisis response. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Your speech has written the Martina Donk!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor, I quote yesterday's Voodoo policy – unfortunately I have too little speaking time to address it in detail – only today's issue of the "New Zurich Newspaper". That's where the commentator writes: ‘In view of the fact that the budget deficit exceeds the entire legislative framework (incl. 2013) the Maastricht border will be missing, Pröll’s commitment to a balanced household about the cycle as well as from another world, as well as his commitment to a major administrative reform after the nocturnal kneefall before the teachers is more like a brave injection.” – citationende. This is not an invention of the BZÖ, that is not an invention of Ewald Stadler, but it is your international echo that you have provoked with this signal to the teachers! Now everyone knows: This government is extortionable, it has no desire to reform it – we can read it out of the budget – and if we go on to demonstrate a little bit, we will bring it together, that we can secure our privileges again! Just like the ÖBB directors – I don't know what they threatened with, what they protested with –: They're making a huge deficit and they're going to have millions of them, two million of them paid a conto, ladies and gentlemen. That's not how it is! This is not the will of reform that would be necessary now! That's what Anneliese Rohner tells you today. This is not my girlfriend, the Anneliese pipes, and I rarely get embarrassed to have to give her justice. But today she is right when she says that you have already failed in your reform – if you even had one – approach, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Mr Glawischnig: (pointing to the end of the agreed speaking time) Mr President! Mr President.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Unfortunately for you, but also for the country, ladies and gentlemen, because the country would currently have better... [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5487	Please, you're closing. Thank you, colleague. [[In the case of BZÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. May. Stadler.]] [[Abg. Blow: Bad quality of speech!]] Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5525	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, this is the biggest economic crisis in the last 80 years, and the question is therefore simple and striking: What does this budget do to deal with this crisis? A budget has something to do with expenditure and revenue and with the resulting balance – usually the deficits. So, now these changes have to be looked at, and it has to be assessed what is happening. In the next few weeks, from your draft budget, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, we will keep the green budget guidelines to the fore again and again, because what you have presented is, with leave, too little, both in the expenditure sector and in the revenue sector. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What's that about? – In the expenditure sector, it is about investing properly, in the right jobs, ensuring the right ones, it is about the so-called future jobs. – You have in your speech, I think, at least once in each paragraph “future”. That's where the language program gets confused, but be it around. Then we really talk about the future! - That's one. And the second is how the burden distribution is done to combat the crisis and the distribution of the funds spent for it. That too is essential! Indeed, it is – and this is painful and surprising for us too – long-lasting deficits at this level to be seen in your own report. And that's not what we Greens want to say: This cannot be the case in the years that we continue to account for up to 5 percent of gross domestic product in deficits, to name a number! But this will mean that we have to think about how we get under control and catch up and how the loads can be distributed. It can't be – and now I come to the first points you said yesterday and today again – that those who have caused the crisis then get the best out of it. It must be – and I am not afraid to use this term here, even if it is branded by you as a populist, but now it is so, one must call it so – even the rich make their fair contribution to the social and educational state, otherwise it is gone. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And I don't even think that's in your interest. If, against this background, you yesterday – and this is to be read in writing; it is really shocking – have used more than half of 30, 40 pages of written budget speech to explain that the American house builder is to blame, and only that the whole world is so bad, then that is – I don't know – naïve dreaming. But I'm afraid it's a worse thing: Then this is the best proof that you and yours are not aware of what the causes of this crisis are, also globally. And that is dramatic, because there is no such inconsistency to expect something to improve. Of course, it is about putting the system back from the head to the feet, and of course it will be about the need for other rules and rules. Every market economy needs rules! – But you, with your neoliberal sulphur, with which you started again yesterday, are completely inconspicuous. I think that's a threat. Please, go inside and take a real look at: What are the causes?- Oh, my God! Explain this, and then make proposals for the measures! - We're doing that! One thing will certainly have to be like this: Both in Europe and worldwide, the economy, at least in part, will have to be organised and regulated differently. This does not mean a bad EU, on the contrary: We need more international integration! This has already been shown. We really need more EU, but that only makes sense if it is a better EU. That is the point in this context. Unfortunately, you missed that yesterday. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Once again to the expenditure page, to the investment: Look, these packages, which have been decided for a long time, partly also with the voices of the opposition, do not grab! However, with the bank package, we have not removed the credit terminal; it does not help. With these investment packages, we have not really created real investments, which is no wonder – Mrs. Klubobfrau Glavischnig has predicted it to you – because there is a lot of budget dirt inside. It is at this point the “grassing” of the budget because the sums you call are not even invested because the federal real estate company is not at all able to skip what you are saying here. This is where the complete “grassing ” takes place. That is really disappointing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In fact, there would be jobs inside. Of course: The future jobs are green! There would be something to do. Relieve the communities of this anti-investment corset, which they are now putting in place. They know exactly where to invest in the next one, two years, in small areas, which creates a lot of jobs. This will prevent you from using your clustered philosophy, which you apply here! There would be a lot inside and accordingly also in public transport. – So: The future jobs are green! That was said at this point. But who pays all this now? That was the real topic! – It will be no different than that in the case of a distribution of assets, Mr. Kopf and Mr. Cot, where one percent of the population in this country – while the lower third of 90 percent will be possessed – this situation cannot be ignored, in the context of the current tax system in Austria, which says that there is no tax to be paid in the event of particularly high assets. [[Abg. Head: Now you want to expropriate her?]] [[Call the ÖVP: Have they stolen it?]] That can't be because we can't let the deficit go through! You know that very well. Or there must be savings packages – who will meet again? - Then say that! I find the medium-term budget to be very important: You predict a deficit of 5 percent, and you do not say how you want to get hold of it. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5622	The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5637	The final sentence is quite simple. [[Abg. Head: I fear that too!]] The rich also have to make their contribution. And get away from the ÖVP from your role as a Reich Party! And you, ladies and gentlemen, Social Democrats: Don't help this nonsense!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5675	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5696	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Times of economic crisis require, in particular, measures for those people who are mainly affected, and these are the workers and their families. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, shows the clear political will to combat the negative effects of this economic crisis. With great endurance and consequence, Federal Minister Hundstorfer has made sure that the funds for active labour market policy, as well as if benefits from unemployment insurance are necessary, are budgetaryly committed, and that is really a warm thanks to him! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In 2008 the level of active labour market policy was increased very high again, and I should like to mention a few figures here: In 2008, €853 million was spent, with over €1 billion planned in 2009. If you add the 220 million, who are in favour of supporting short-time work, and the European Social Fund funds, it is more than €1.3 billion. Who benefits from this money now, and how is this money used? – All training, training and employment programmes will be challenged. Such employment and qualification programmes are particularly important because it is known that 45 percent of the unemployed have at most compulsory schooling, and often not even these. Qualification measures are therefore a very important matter for this group of persons. However, further training measures are also important to ensure that the time of unemployment can be useful and that the opportunity to find a job can be found more quickly later. And we want people to have a perspective, especially in times of crisis, we want to show people the opportunities and opportunities that education and training give. We show workers the way out of the crisis and do not leave them alone with their problems. We give them the opportunity to consume training and training measures, and this should also be a better one for the future. A very important point here is also short-time work, and we have also made short-time work more flexible by changing the Employment Promotion Act not too long ago, and we have also introduced qualification measures. I am very happy about this because at present 237 companies and more than 37 000 employees are working in short-time work. Now I don't want to be misunderstood: That's not a number you can celebrate. But it's an important measure. On the one hand, it must be borne in mind that an unemployed worker costs as much as 3.4 people who are employed in short-term work – and that, I believe, is also legitimate in this difficult crisis that we have, this measure – and on the other hand, it is very important that people remain in the work, in the work process. This means an advantage for workers but, of course, for employers, because they do not have to give up their highly qualified staff. In this context, I should like to point out that international research in this area also gives us a right to invest in workers is a very important measure. It also seems important to me to note once again that unemployment is something terrible for every employee and every employee; but a very special difficulty arises when young people become unemployed, because then they simply have no future. That is why we are or are presenting a youth employment offensive to the Federal Government, which is the largest ever – one that has never been done before. It is intended, on the one hand, to ensure the training guarantee for young people up to the age of 18 and, on the other hand, the “Action Future Youth!” for the group of 19 to 24 years old. 500 million euros will be made so to speak, and I think this is a good investment for young people, but also for social security in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Some comments still concern women's employment. We all know that, despite many measures, women are still disadvantaged in the labour market. Therefore, this budget also includes very special measures for women's offensives, for women's qualifications in non-typical areas. This ensures, on the one hand, that women receive employment in non-traditional areas and, on the other, the possibility of bridgeing the traditional labour market. A comment on another chapter which is very important to me in the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs – this information is mainly related to our older generation: In the budget, ladies and gentlemen, pensions, the balance of inflation for pensioners and pensioners and the recent improvements in the pension system are guaranteed. In other words, our state pensions are secured, and the budget has taken care of them. Thank you very much. This budget simply shows the social policy manuscript of this Federal Government under Mr. Faymann and Mr. Sozialminister Hundstorfer. [[Abg. Scheibner: He's gone already!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Faymann is already gone!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5770	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5791	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Perhaps anyone from the BZÖ can draw attention to my colleague Bucher, whom I very much appreciate and who, I suppose, just happened to him, he wished to have a budget earlier, but not the 12th, to the fact that, under the new budgetary law, there was no longer any such thing and that this new budgetary law was adopted unanimously, including with his voice. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of my colleague Mr Strache: He always wants to be the grandmaster of the sharp points. But hardly has he fulfilled his mission, he is gone. He will now report that he has reviled Raiffeisen, and can, so to speak, pick up the words of thanks from his client. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Who is the client?]] It's remarkable: There is no debate here in this House any longer without Mr Strache's contribution to a raiffeisen abuse. He defames 60,000 employees, as well as tens of thousands of customers and accordingly economically managed companies – and then he says that the FPÖ is in favour of the little man! That's remarkable. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Who is the client?]] Then Mr. Secretary-General Kickl comes to the speaker's desk and rightly complains that Bank Austria – which he means – is no longer an Austrian bank. Right! That's to question! But what does his clubman do about it? – He insults the Austrian bank Raiffeisen to the no longer going. Ladies and gentlemen! You can save yourself this double-beddedness! Remember that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Do you have anything to do with raiffeisen?]] The Eastern Risk is mentioned again and again. Yeah, it's also a risk, not a question at all. But perhaps you also think a little bit about the fact that 6 € of 10 €, which will be earned, will be generated from exports, especially from these countries, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Head: This is associated with risk!]] And that is also a risk. Or don't you want us to finance and secure these companies too? And may you also be reminded, if you already critically highlight the obligation of the East here, that only a Swiss large bank – UBS – has €800 billion of obligos on lazy American loans, that the English banks had to be nationalized, which have €1,600 billion of risks in American banks? Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore not appropriate to point out your own problems only with your finger, and not at all to keep these teachings from abroad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This first reading of the budget is supposed to be the general debate, so to speak, the answer to yesterday's very skillful and professional budget speech by the Minister of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen! This budget sets out the objectives of the joint government work of ÖVP and SPÖ, and, as has already been done, the budget is the policy of the coming years, the response to the crisis, a clear answer, a clear fight against the more than economically problematic environment. Three years ago these problems could not be imagined. There you can see all your own speeches. No one in this house has thought or could have imagined what's coming to us. It is also remarkable what was meant in an interview by the German Federal President Köhler, who at least once was the IMF director, a few years ago. This interview is interesting because he points out that the Austrian and European banks and, above all, the German savings banks would have been held once that returns were below 15 percent of obviously missing competition. – Yes, if someone really thinks that you could precipitate anyone, earn 15 percent and more of returns on annual economic growth – even at best times – from 3 to 4 percent in Europe, then he lives somewhere else! But obviously everyone felt that you could make money out of nothing. We know that this has failed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, this budget speech gives this budget of the coming two years 2009 and 2010 a very professional response to the challenges that are not easy. It would therefore be appropriate for all together to try to achieve the best. We will therefore, on 6 June. In the various discussions of the Committee on Budgets on the various chapters, starting with the measures, the details are given. As chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I am already inviting you to deal critically with this, but above all with what is best for the country, for employment and for social balance. I also admit, a point hurts me a little, because it would have been best and fastest to implement, namely: There are a large number of projects in the municipalities, which would be immediately feasible, which would be quite lightning-like for the regional economy due to the tendering directives, in which thanks to God's limits, would be the most effective means of employment on the ground. Maybe there are ways to do this a little better. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Why isn't there?]] Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament will be required as a whole. Each individual representative must make the best possible contribution to addressing the crisis. However, we should also use the improved documents. And I would not like to fail to thank Mr Steger and his team very much for the skillful preparation of the new budgetary law, for the months of preparation, which provides an agreement on what is expected of us here. I express my heartfelt thanks for this. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The real task of this budget, however, will be to make the policy cast into figures visible to people in this country, to strengthen the opportunities there are, to reduce the risks that exist, but above all to strengthen the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5919	The next speaker is Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5940	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! Before I go into the debate itself, you allow me to speak to the previous speaker Ewald Stadler, who has argued against the FPÖ here with great massity. Whoever wants to take a picture of the Lord Stadler's harsh thinking world, looks at YouTube best and listens to him as he is persecuted and surrounded by loud freemasons who surround him, and by louder – I quote Stadler – “hot brothers” who follow him and surround him. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes! “Kraus”!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner]] [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Yesterday, Mr. Stadler made himself strong for Jehovah’s Witnesses. I believe, Mr Stadler, that if the EU mandate is not going to be what everyone is going to do, perhaps we will see you standing on the street with a “watchtower” somewhere. That will be the sad future of Mr Stadler. [[New cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What is the name of the one who speaks?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today in the early days there has been a very interesting message, namely that a former suspension sign of social democracy, a former State Secretary of SPÖ, Mr Ruttenstorfer is in the vision of domestic financial market supervision. Mr Ruttenstorfer as head of the OMV, where he earns € 2 million a year, has bought the bargain amount of € 620 000 OMV shares shortly before the MOL sale and has thereby placed a profit of € 44 000 in the socialist bag. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is how it looks when the teachers strike!]] Then it is also clear, ladies and gentlemen, why the new SPÖ President, Mr Werner Faymann, at one time is polemizing and bets that the super-richs of this Republic are at least paying a solidarity contribution in the crisis. According to Werner Faymann, this must not be so, and you also know when you look at the actual socialist millionaires today. And one also understands why – does the FMA determine against Mr. Ruttenstorfer or not? – the SPÖ today faces an escape of voters. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at yesterday's speech by the Minister of Finance and his statements today, then you must already be very faithful, namely, ÖVP-believer, in order to take this away from him. But perhaps in the course of the reconstruction work of the House – Mrs Prammer is very generous – one can set up a pulpit up there, where he could do the best in his next budget speech. In any case, that would be clearer than what he did here. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with BZÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Such a “lustier” person!]] This European Union is anything but a vehicle for why we get through this financial crisis. Today, this European Union is the cause of such misdevelopments. [[Abg. Petzner:... Mölzer in Brussels! The lazyest Member!]] – Come out later, if you have something to say! I would now like to say why the European Union is guided by a completely different driving force in this regard. I recommend this to the Greens in particular. Take a look at “www.ert.be” on the Internet! There you can see the European round of industrialists. These are 45 European companies, real big players, who have merged, together have four and a half million employees and a common volume of turnover of €1 600 billion. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr President, that comes out when your teachers strike!]] That's 1.6 trillion € – correctly formulated. And this industrial round expresses its expectations for the EU openly on the Internet under ‘www.ert.be’, which can be read for everyone. If one compares the position papers of this group with the actual EU policy, then one insists that this European Union is nothing but a lobby club for industrial captains, large corporations and businesses, but certainly not a social Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this budget can be summarized in a sentence: All lost, only the banks cash! – What you have done here, namely to present the banks as poor victims, is wrong. The banks in Austria are not victims, the banks are perpetrators. And no one has instructed the local banks to make any speculation transactions in the East at $300 billion or € 230 billion, or has instructed your friend, Mr. Konrad, to act so massively in Ukraine, especially. [[towards Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] Let us remember, then we also understand a lot! After the last election, when it was still unclear, what majority formations are going to take place here, and the ÖVP has said: No, with the SPÖ we don't want anymore!, it suddenly happened overnight that Mr Pröll was in the boat of this coalition at once to satisfy the interests of Mr. Konrad so that the billions of taxpayers could flow as quickly as possible towards the local banking landscape; whether that is Mr. Konrad or Mr. Treichl, who is also in the vicinity of the ÖVP. Everyone loses, everyone has to pay, only cash the banks. This must be said to the public: If the teachers lose when the police lose when the health sector suffers damage and so on – the fairy tale that the American house builders are guilty of the crisis and of Austrian debt development, please tell someone else! APA issue from yesterday: ‘In addition to the annual re-indebtedness, the main cause of the growing debt is the bank assistance package...’ The Austrians pay for these €10 billion, which are now expected to help the directors and managers out of the patch. You have to say that in all clarity. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are in favour of implementing and continuing, ladies and gentlemen, not the policy on the mines and grasses of the EIAs, which now finds the support of the SPÖs, but rather to link up the package and give it to the Austrians who now need it. That's the right approach! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6101	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6123	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The Federal Chancellor has already left us. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Just briefly to Mr. Vilimsky, who tried the medium YouTube. Mr. Vilimsky, I know a sequence from YouTube primarily. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Worth seeing!]] – This is worth seeing, because the most well-known politician to Barack Obama on YouTube is Karl Schwab from the FPÖ Lower Austria. It's a pleasure to take a look at this. I would recommend that everyone enter the name “Schwab” and “FPÖ” on YouTube and look at this speech. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – So make an effort You don't have the medium YouTube anymore! But now to the budget, because that is much more important. Today we experience a kind of mutation, a new finance minister; the previous one sits in here. I'm surprised you don't speak today, dear Willi Molterer, but that'll have its reason. We are also experiencing, so to speak, the mutation of two concepts, namely from "Pater Willi" to "Bulden-Sepp". This is the concept we see here today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Pröll, you understood your speech and your budget yesterday under the title of "champfansage to the crisis" and I had this impression. But the crisis will not be very afraid of this fight, because this budget, which you have presented, is actually a capitulation declaration cast in figures. That's the truth! It is a capitulation declaration cast in figures and part of the crisis itself, even as it has come about, as the budget has come about, namely by tarns and slugs. For two months, you've been playing hideouts. They have corrected the deficit up a week and drawn crisis scenarios much more than they actually are. Then don't be surprised, Minister of Finance, if suddenly nationally, but also international experts squeak their noses and ask: What's going on in Austria?- Oh, my God! Mr Finanzminister – I am quite right for you – I also believe that experts, whether they are abroad or abroad, should consider very, very well how they qualify government budgets. I also do not think much of foreign experts calling Austria bankruptcy. That too we reject. Only: Mr Finanzminister, you have the responsibility to do so because you have not mentioned figures for two months and the international financial world has also been thinking about what is going on in Austria! They are also responsible. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They have also done some damage to the country. Although we are not faced with a state bankruptcy, the budget is a political declaration of bankruptcy, which can be said because you have actually failed. Today’s noise in the leaf forest should give you some thought, including your own media, which is very well-minded to you, if I look at today’s “curier” for example. Mrs Anneliese Rohner – welcome to the High House, Mrs. Editor; [[the speaker looks up to the right at the press loge]] You don't need to go back, you can watch quietly – write – I quote – today: “It is easy to be disappointed by Josef Pröll’s first budget speech. (...) The ‘hours of truth’ he preached at the beginning made him fail. (...) This may be due to Pröll’s inability to create tension in such an important speech.” – Well, not a particularly good witness! And if the “Economic Sheet” is entitled: ‘Mr Pröll: That’s too little!” – look, that’s what’s up there – then you should really think about whether the budget you presented is right, because that’s not it. [[The speaker keeps a copy of the “Economic Sheet” up to date]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: It's yesterday! That was before the budget speech! You're a day too late!]] They have presented a budget which has no imagination, which has little innovative power, which is impotent, which is powerless, yes, which is even pointless, because it is only a sluggish one. Turning on the debt screw is. Let us reject this, ladies and gentlemen. That's wrong! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You organize a flight to record debt, you increase deficits. – By the way, Mr Finanzminister, an interim question: What actually is from the glorious, and they have really been good, surpluses from the tax revenues of the last three years? Mr Finanzminister a.D. Molterer, can you explain this to us together with Mr Pröll? 8 billion were accumulated, so totaled, 8 billion more revenue, more than budgeted. Where did they come from? What happened to them? – They are not there; therefore, today’s budget is in reality the basis for further tax packages, despite high deficits. That's something that's remarkable. They also abandon people. They abandon the elderly because you do not grant them the pension increase they need. The last increase was already below the inflation rate, and the next one will also be problematic. They abandon the young people in education. Instead of more training, From for more education. Superminister Neugebauer, in the next job President of the National Council – now the Finance Minister, Federal Chancellor and Education Minister is cumulating in one – has shown you where Bartl is bringing the Most. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Strike becomes political discipline. – No, not even strike, in this government there is no strike at all, it is sufficient for the strike threat. The threat alone is sufficient to ensure that this government falls like a leaf from the tree and ultimately no longer resists. This has been seen in the field of education. The neighbors are already working in the police sector – right! – because there are no more 1 000 police officers; they are not even eligible for funding. The same applies to the judiciary and the federal army. I'm very excited. Everyone has learned from this threat to the teachers. You will still have some nice encounters with Mr Neugebauer and his union. There is also no social statement in this budget, Mr Finanzminister. The social statement is missing! They have abandoned the people, for example in the care sector, but also a million people who live in this country at the poverty line. We are missing this announcement too. In reality, therefore, this budget is a debt. Mr President, for many years you have told us from this speaker's desk as the main speaker of the ÖVP how bad it is to make debts and how terrible that is for the next generations, for the children, for the boys to whom we are supposed to give a good future. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: In the crisis there is no different!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Today you yourself are part of the ÖVP debt party, no, I correct, the record debt party ÖVP! You should actually get used to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6274	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6296	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister! You can rely on us. – You have all of us, you promised the Austrians yesterday. I have to say, I am very aware of the situation. It would also really be... tempting and comfortable to think that you can rely on you, but unfortunately it is so if I look at your analysis of the crisis and the causes for it in addition: It is already clear that you will probably not be able to rely on you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A crisis is, by definition, a turning point after a problematic, sharp development. It goes on to say: If the crisis is not reversed, the disaster will follow as a consequence. Mr Minister, do I find anything of this logical knowledge in your analysis, anything of it? So the realization that there was first a problematic development and then the necessary turn? – Unfortunately, hardly, because you speak of the current situation as a natural event coming from the USA over us, unsuspectingly, also unforeseen. But, Mr Minister, with regard to unforeseen – also Mr Colleague Auer said that again –: For years now, we Greens have pointed out to you that you are on the wrong path, because your party, the ÖVP, was the spearhead of the neoliberal transformation of our economic and social system. Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens have been yelling for a long time, as we have experienced that more and more people are losing hold, no appointments, no decent wages. We cried out when, despite rising economic growth, the figures on poverty in Austria have grown despite growing wealth. And you have always participated in the neoliberal competition for the cheapest location. More than 50 percent of all employees in Austria today indicate that they can hardly or no longer live by the income of their work. And now you want to make all of us aware that this has nothing to do with your policy in recent years?- Oh, my God! We have a crisis, which is the culmination of a problematic development in which you from the ÖVP, but also you from the SPÖ and only you from FPÖ and BZÖ, when you were in the government, were at the front. And now tell us that your budget is the answer to the crisis, but this is not exactly what it is. The budget is not a turning point in this worrying development. You just do more of what you've always done. Mr Pröll! Federal Chancellor! Mr Sozialminister, even if you are not there! Unfortunately, the budget doesn't give me any hope of really realizing the need for a turnaround: away from the exploitive profit orientation to a more just distribution for an innovative society. An extremely important part is missing. Your budget lacks basic security, a minimum guarantee. Yes, you increase expenditure on unemployment and emergency aid, but if you compare this with the expected rising unemployment figures, then you can see it is not going to happen – not 2009, not 2010. If you look at the strategy report, it will not be possible in the following years. It's not going out! There will be no minimum guarantee. This is extremely terrifying, and you will once again save with those who can at least defend themselves. Let me also say something about the rising unemployment and active labour market policies in this context. You're talking about 1 billion €, in fact it's 150 million more. If one divides this by the number we expect to be unemployed, then one sees that specifically for each individual will remain much less than before. Job coachings and even more application training have already taken place. Here the quality will not rise. They don't give people any new opportunities. Mr. Finanzminister, you demand trust. You say you are voting against the crisis, but the only thing you vote against is the realization that we need a turn. You're against it! They oppose rethinking and finally taking new ways. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need a basic security immediately. We need more money for active labour market policies so that the crisis can really become a chance for everyone. And we need more money to create new jobs in future sectors, such as the new energy sector. But where do you want to take the money for it? – Tax at last the wealth of the super-rich! Protect Meinl, Grasser and Co no longer! You're the Reich Party! [[pointing to the ÖVP’s seat rows]] Confess to it if it's already you!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6405	I now give the floor to Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Speaking time: maximum 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6426	Mr President. High house! Openly stated, given the heterogeneity of the contributions from the opposition, above all in terms of content, I think the country can appreciate that you are not in the government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today we have heard several times that the budget is a programme cast into figures. But honestly, I do not know which programme you would have been able to use, especially in view of your current speeches here. For the current government, I can say that at least science and research are a clear focus of our policy, which is also expressed in the figures. There is no If and But, because in this area we need reliability, stability, predictability and sustainability, throughout the whole legislative period. I also say today from this point of view: The growth path in this area can be continued. Therefore, I am pleased to be able to maintain that €3.4 billion will be available in this year's science field. This is an increase of 15 percent compared to the previous year. In the coming year, it will be 3,75 billion. This will account for around 1.2 billion more for the two years for universities, research and technical colleges. This is a clear signal from the Federal Government, whose priorities are science, work, education and research, because that is the raw capital of a society, and that is where it is to invest. This is also true in difficult times, that is not a question. I visited the most prominent representatives of the research scene yesterday to present them with the new budget. They have responded very positively, but of course most have said that they would have wanted more. As Minister of Finance, I would have liked more, but the Minister of Finance rightly pointed out yesterday that the sum of the requests of the Minister of Finance would have amounted to €18 billion, and that is indeed not possible. So you have to see that you stretch to the ceiling. I'm glad that the Research community in a differentiated perspective acknowledges our efforts in focusing. We will not avoid using the funds in the field of research, science, even more intelligent, even more efficient, even more targeted, but in total we can already point out that 20 percent more resources will be available in this area in the next few years. It shows, in particular, in this area, the challenge we faced in budgeting, as special resources have been out of the way, third-party funds, and we have had the task of coping with these losses through public funds. It was not possible to compensate for all these failures. Think of the National Foundation, which just a few years ago invested €125 million in research, while this year it is only €30 million in total! These declines could not be offset to 100 percent, but to a great extent, and that was one of our objectives. In this context, the most important key points from my department: €1.6 billion for universities; a package for the period from 2010 to 2012. If I deduct the study contribution refund, which is at least €160 million per year, then universities will have more than €350 million and € 390 million in the next few years. This is an increase of 16 to 17 percent. The technical colleges also receive the 13.7 percent more promised by then Minister of Finance Willi Molterer in autumn; a first increase since the founding of the technical colleges, and this in these difficult times. We will also not let go of the study support and continue to increase this budget, just as we do in the field of research. It is gratifying – and so it was taken up by the research community – that the 160 million for the FWF... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Research is an important subject, Mr Grosz. I know that's not your core discipline. As I said, it is gratifying that the researchers will have €800 million in FWF over the next five years. With this, Austria can also rise and play internationally in the coming years. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6506	Next speaker: Mrs. Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6527	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hahn, I am very glad that you have addressed the importance of research, because, in addition to the measures we are taking to counter the economic crisis, such as with investment and employment programmes, research is of particular importance. I do not know how often the word “crisis” has fallen during the last hours of the discussion. I hope it won't be the word of 2009. In all our discussions, we should focus much more on what this crisis means for people and what is the greatest concern of the population at this time. There are two things that essentially represent the most severe fates for the people. One is when they are affected by illness, and the second is when they lose their jobs and are affected by unemployment. This federal government takes people's concerns very seriously. And lately there is more concern about the workplace, and instead of putting the head in the sand or putting our hands in the lap, we will actively try to counter it. We will do everything we can to secure employment and work in our country and thus give people hope and confidence. I would like to ask everyone, the criticism of the investments that can be read well in the budget, what the alternatives are. Is one of the alternatives not to invest in the infrastructure? Is the alternative, for example, not to ensure that we create short-time bridges in different areas? I believe that our measures are alternatively non-existent. We have two tasks: First of all, we have the task of drawing lessons from the past. And they clearly show that it is not always right that less state and more private is good. This can be seen from the pension funds, for example. And the second task is to look more closely where there is really a need for action. I think it is difficult for one speaker or another to put himself in the situation of a single woman who is afraid of losing her job, or in the situation of a family father, the week after week, to get fewer orders for his operation and to worry about his existence. It is therefore without alternatives and the right decision of this Federal Government to say: We are not looking at this, we are taking money into our hands and investing in order to secure employment and create jobs in the regional economy! Ladies and gentlemen! We invest twice because we look at the money, because we turn every euro twice before we spend it, and because we invest in areas that will benefit our children and our grandchildren. For example, we are expanding the “modern railway”, a “rail of 21st century. ” ==References====External links== We accelerate railway projects in such a way that they really represent an alternative to the car. These are investments that create new jobs that we need now, and thus we also guarantee values for the next generations, and that is why this is so important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the budget alone, projects with a volume of €3.7 billion are planned for this year, which will be financed by the ÖBB and ASFINAG companies on their own initiative, and thus we also achieve employment effects. This ensures 50 000 jobs a year, where people work hard day after day. And we want these values also for the next generations. The second priority of our policy is to promote applied research. In particular, it is important that research be carried out in close proximity to the economy. 80 percent of the technologies in use today are obsolete in ten years, so these investments in the future are important. If in the automotive industry we also promote research in addition to other measures, such as the scrapping premium – keywords: Electric motors, low-energy vehicles, modern, ecological fuels – this is an investment in the future. This budget clearly proves that this federal government is investing intelligently. Economic performance and social justice and balance are united in this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6594	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6618	Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, it is not an easy task to create a budget in times of a global economic and financial crisis – in times when government revenue is expected to fall and unemployment is growing, and in which every serious economic researcher/economic researcher says that it is difficult to estimate how development will really continue. But there are very clear expectations of a budget in these times. These expectations are right for the population, and these expectations refer to a genuinely comprehensive effort by the government, by policy, to the need to catch people and to protect them from negative effects of this crisis. On the one hand, we do this with measures that can quickly create jobs, such as investment, on the other hand, by making the right choices that go beyond the day. That is why I consider the cross-party commitment to focus on education, science and research to be extremely important, both in terms of jobs for today and in terms of important change and jobs for tomorrow. This confession – and this is actually to be read in the budget – is not a pure lip commitment, as one hears it in beautiful speeches, but it is really recognizable by the figures of this budget, by the budgetary priorities. The focus on education, science and research is on individual life opportunities for individuals, but also on making the right choices for Austria as an economic location for the future. The Federal Chancellor has already pointed out that the focus on education must start at the kindergarten, with the smallest, with the expansion of the squares, with the provision of free kindergartens, as in Vienna now – hopefully increasingly – which on the one hand is very important for the children and on the other hand should also bring an important relief to young families. The plus for education in this budget will mean that we can continue in school for our children further important steps and take new steps that we can expand the New Middle School, that we can further reduce the classes in order to provide the children with much better and more individual care in smaller groups. Next point: universities. – In recent years, SPÖ has repeatedly been committed to improving the facilities of universities. To achieve this has been achieved in this budget. The universities will get more money. We want to improve the study conditions and also make a contribution to ensuring that the collective agreement can finally be implemented at the universities. Furthermore, the technical universities – a very, very important area in education, vocational education and training. This area, too, is now at last a plus of additional financial resources after many years. In fact, research has also succeeded in mobilising more resources. There has been great concern in the field of research as to whether programmes can be continued, whether the necessary resources will also be available. Of course, everyone in this area would like to have more resources, because it is interesting There are projects and because one could do more and that would be pleasing and important. But it has succeeded in making much more available in this budget than was originally expected. In the field of researchers there is also a corresponding relief. Investment in research is important, on the one hand, because it allows us to secure jobs for the skilled researchers of today and, on the other hand, because we can contribute to the results in the field of research and contribute to the development of tomorrow's jobs and thus ensure the future of tomorrow. This means that investment in education, science and research is important investment in the future for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6688	Next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6709	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Minister of State on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! After one choice, everyone goes back one step and says: No, we don't want to rule, we don't want to take on government responsibility! – No, but that came from the greatest screams who have again criticized everything here today! [[Abg. May. Stadler: We're not!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We saw that in Salzburg!]] We have now seen it again in Salzburg: They don't want to bear any government responsibility. If so, you should also have respect for what this Federal Government is doing against the consequences of the crisis. This Federal Government, also represented by our Finance Ministers, is doing something against the crisis, making every effort to deal with this crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But one should also worry, the Greens are sitting in the government. Mrs. Klubobfrau Glawischnig has shown it again today when she said that 10 percent of the population should pay property taxes, 90 percent would remain unscathed. If you assume that 200 000 people in this country have 60 000 € and more annual income, you have to say: This is nothing but a scrap of the middle class, the housekeeper, the family owner. I'm sure that won't happen to us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We follow the path of discharge consistently. We showed this in the Schüssel government with a tax reform of €3 billion in 2004/2005, where we went exactly where we arrived at the beginning of 2008: in the case of record employment, at a rate of unemployment moving towards full employment. We've shown that's all right. But then the crisis surprised us. And that's where we made a tax reform again, through which we continue to relieve the population and give the population more purchasing power. This money, which the population now has more available due to the discharge – keyword: Family package – we will encourage the people whom we encourage to return to the economic cycle with these discharges. We are also doing something for solidarity by implementing the deductibility of donations, namely specifically where people help people, in the tax reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] This is important and necessary, and those who can afford it can and should give a donation to people who urgently need help – that is also good and necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We're doing everything possible in the crisis! We see that jobs are secured and remain. The short-term work has taken a measure that can help in the crisis to obtain jobs. But we all know that, as politicians, policy cannot create jobs, so there must be measures like short-time work that can help entrepreneurs get jobs. But we know, too, and I hope that we will... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] – You can only intervene, Mr Kickl, you do not want to bear responsibility at all, and you have no concepts either! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Well, wait! You'll still experience it!]] [[Abg. Street:... the worries in June!]] We know very well that if these measures do not take place, if there is no job maintenance after a short-term work phase, and yet many workers are released, there will be new measures again. I do not think anything about calling for new economic packages, for additional economic packages or for additional labour market packages, I think it is necessary that those economic packages that are now available, and that we look at how these measures have taken place. In this respect, we must also support our Federal Government – our Deputy Chancellor and Finance Minister and our remaining government members – and not only externally intercede. That does not help us, neither does the population, nor does the crisis deal with it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6826	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6847	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, Mr President, Mr Hahn, your speeches here in the House are more than unnecessary, because they stand here to think themselves of the absolute business and to sell the entire opposition for stupid and to declare so stupid that they would not be able to react accordingly in a crisis situation, which is bound by a degree of arrogance that can no longer be overcome. [[Call: You're right.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: He can't do it better!]] And Mrs. Tamandl can take you with you right away! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of BZÖ and Greens.]] I would like to say something to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government: Dealing with a crisis seriously or creating a serious crisis management can only be done if you look at reality and perceive reality as it really is, and do not perceive it as you would like it to be. This is at all the key to this budget creation, which is at the root of it. They are always based on the economic figures of Mr. Aiger and Mr. Felder. They obviously do not know that there is an OECD that besides Mr Aiger and Mr Felder there are other economic experts and that they call quite different numbers. You know exactly that economic growth in Austria will be between minus 4 and 5 percent this year, but you base this budget creation on that we have a minus growth of 2.2 percent, and you are even so optimistic that you assume that in 2010 growth is 0.5 percent already in the positive, where other economic experts in Europe fear that it could get even worse next year than this. This is the mis-evaluation in this budget, and you have also made this mis-evaluation in the tax reform, and you have made this very mis-evaluation in the various economic packages: They have been based on figures from December of last year! Just one example: From the review process of the so-called tax reform until its adoption, the figures have been revised exactly four times downwards, and you have not been able to adapt both the tax reform and the economic packages accordingly. Now to my area, to the business department. It is a pity that the Minister of Economic Affairs is not here, because I believe that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has a resolution. If If you look at the budget today only for the business sector, so if you do not have a family and a youth, because that covers the State Secretary Marek and only takes up the task of the Minister of Economic Affairs, then he has a budget of € 574 million available, and research is included in it. Yes, what do you want to do if you still know that 80 percent of this budget goes up for the Federal Competition Authority, the Federal Award Office, the Climate and Energy Fund, the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying and so on, and so on, which is included in it? – There is absolutely nothing left to be able to counter it at all! If the SPÖ still believes that politics is creating work, then it should finally say goodbye to this false belief! [[Abg. Krainer: Your policy destroys jobs, our jobs create!]] Policy does not create jobs, jobs create businesses, and policies must be prepared to provide the framework for them. And you don't! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Minister for Economic Affairs, I think, has done this, Mr Cap: They've separated business and work. Now the Minister of Labour has a budget of over €8 billion, the Minister of Economic Affairs still has half a billion – I just want to know what he wants to do to counter this economic crisis – and probably the next double budget of the posts of the Minister of Economic Affairs will be saved, about this way the SPÖ will be. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Here the SPÖ has drawn the ÖVP over the table and not the other way round. That's the way it's going to run! But the Minister of Economic Affairs would have a few more open construction sites, which he could do at least until then. There are still missing things, such as the Ecostrom Act, which has been renewed for a long time, with renewable energies, there are no ideas, nothing at all, a master plan hydropower is missing as well as the acceleration of approval procedures. [[Federal Minister Dr. Hahn leaves the government bank]] [[Calls: Goodbye, Minister! Meal, Minister! Have a nice afternoon.]] How this government works and how seriously the Minister of Economic Affairs is doing shows a small example. This is a regional problem, which concerns only Vorarlberg and parts of Tyrol, which are the worse service conditions for Austrian companies in Switzerland. We know that since 1. On April 1, 2007, these framework conditions were drastically deteriorated by Switzerland, i.e. Vorarlberger and Tyrolean entrepreneurs have the biggest problems if they receive orders in Switzerland. – Now this is two years ago, for two years nothing has happened! Now I can ask the government: Is the problem too small because it is only a regional problem, or is there no interest in correcting it or in going after it at some point? [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] Two years ago, this problem was at the table! In the meantime, it has been with the EU for a year.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6951	The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6966	... Nothing is done at all. Finally, do something before you finally say goodbye to the insignificance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6993	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7015	Mr President. Values decimated government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Grosz: But those who sit up are heavy weights!]] - You're heavy weights? - May be! However, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, this superiority to Parliament has been completely inappropriate, Mr President, because we should today – it is always saying that the budget is the policy cast in figures, however; this, you have described it in this way, is now, Mr Finanzminister, your answer, your “champfansage to the crisis and a timetable for the future” – very offensive [[Call to the ÖVP: That was superlative now!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very superlative!]] Their actions to deal with this major economic crisis in the history of the Second Republic and also the actions of this Federal Government for the future, for the next two years, will be discussed. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: So, do you have alternatives? Where are they?- Oh, my God!]] – Our alternatives? – Very right, Mr Cap! Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. That was your budget speech, Mr Cap, that of the Federal Government! It was your announcement today that was more reticent. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It was good!]] If you say as a self-hypnosis, your speech was good, then it says a lot about it again, but we would have expected a lot of it. The tension, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, has built you up well: I think two months ago. You agree with the council ministers, and then you ordered a silence bid: No one was allowed to say anything. We have now grumbled... – There was not always such a crisis situation, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll:..., Herbert! You know that very well!]] Now, rapid action would have been required, an offensive discussion of the measures, an offensive discussion also of the needs to deal with this crisis, and not of a month-long act and silence in the public where no one has known what is really happening to us. That's what we'd expect! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the bank package has been addressed, and I really do not want to hold a raiffeisen debate now – this is really the question, Mr Strache, why, and I am suspicious, because the last time I have been here... – Yes, that is right, but that does not only have to do with Raiffeisen, but that is a whole problem of the bank package, which we all discussed together here and decided quickly in October. [[Abg. Street: Because billions are put in the sand!]] [[Abg. Strache: That may be indifferent to you, but...!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. The shareholders are up there!]] For months – for months! – We discuss the fact that this bank package does not work because the banks have gladly accepted these liabilities – all banks, colleague Strache! – but don’t pass the money on. There are still no loans, at least not enough, for small and medium-sized enterprises, the house-keepers are being scrapped, they have to bring additional security, they do not get credit for new purchases. – This is one of the issues we would like to discuss! From the opposition side, we have been discussing this for months, but we do not receive satisfactory answers. This is a problem of the crisis and exactly the opposite of what you have said that you want to deal with the crisis. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, this is interesting: If you don't know what to do anymore, you go into ideology, and you come out of class struggle. If a wealth tax, a rich tax is the only recipe in the crisis that you bring here – all your speakers have brought it to you – then I really wonder where we came from. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Comrade Haselsteiner?- Oh, my God!]] This ideologisation of economic policy is completely wrong! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is clear that the market needs rules and these rules have been disregarded in the financial markets – we also expect from the European Union and also from the Austrian Federal Government in the European Union a lot in the direction of finally demanding and implementing these rules – but we cannot say now: The market has failed, so we will return to the planning economy, and everyone who has something, everyone who does something, will be scrapped once again! . Well, this envy cooperative, Mr colleague, we don't need it at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] Remember that your core organizations, such as the ÖGB and the BAWAG, have also been in the centre of speculation losses! We here as Parliament saved the ÖGB back then, and did not say: [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Riepl]] The union should be abolished at all because it has speculated!, so be careful! [[Abg. Riepl:... was always against the union!]] We don't want envy. Nor do we want the 2.5 million workers who pay taxes to ask: Why should we now co-finance the 2.5 million who do not pay taxes? – This is the completely wrong way! We need to see that we create jobs. Who creates jobs, ladies and gentlemen from social democracy? [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] – Not the state, but the small and medium-sized economy! We must support these undertakings and must not scrap them in order to create jobs so that they can gain confidence and that we can maintain the social system.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7232	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7253	Mr President. 4 minutes, I have to restrict myself. – Economic performance declines and social product declines. For the State, this has the unpleasant consequence that revenue is falling and expenditure is rising; the deficit and public debt are rising, which is inevitable. – I do not criticise this either, on the contrary, I believe that this is an inevitable consequence of the economic crisis, and in principle it is a correct response from the financial policy to this most severe economic crisis for 80 years. What I criticise is what is not in the budget speech and what is not in the individual tables, and these are two things, namely, first of all: How will we get back from this high level of interest-rate expenditure in particular? and, secondly, not a word about the credit clamp that the government has been keeping silent for months. First of all, perhaps to continue yesterday's debate, Mr Strache. Mr Bucher rightly pointed out that the documents show that public debt will rise to 80 percent of the social product in 2013 if the data presented to us yesterday by Vice-Chanceller Pröll will always be subject to this requirement. – Of course, it can get worse, not a question. The 80 percent of the social product will be about how many billions? [[Rejoicing with the speaker.]] [[Abg. Strache: You're playing the upper teacher again, but you can play the upper teacher in your own club!]] Precisely, Mr. Strache is refusing the answer again. All right, we're used to that. I'll give you a hand. It's about €250 billion, Mr. Strache, €250 billion of government debt in a few years. How much interest expenditure will this entail, we say at 4 percent, Mr Strache? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: 10 billion!]] 250 billion €, 4 percent interest rate is how much? – Yes, yes, but if it were only 4 percent? [[Abg. Strache: That will be too...!]] [[Call: €10 billion]] – Bravo, thank you! 10 billion €! [[Abg. Street:... more than 10 billion, because the banks themselves lend the loans to the state!]] 10 billion at 4 percent, and at 5 percent interest rate it would be over €12 billion, and if interest rates are even higher, it will be even more money. [[Abg. Strache: The Master Teacher is playing the Supreme Geweiten again!]] That is to say, in this situation, every half a percentage point means a billion additional expenditure in the Federal Budget only for interest, and all of this, provided that this can be financed at all, because the whole EU – the whole world – can almost be said to be all industrial nations – faced with the same problem of financing these high deficits. [[Abg. May. Stefan: And what do you want to say with it?]] [[Abg. And what do you want to say? The Master Teacher!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – Listen to me a little; You can talk later! Mr Pröll, Federal Chancellor Faymann! How will we deal with this situation at €10.12 billion or more in interest payments? – Only so that people outside can imagine something: This is more than four times the annual budget of the entire police of the Ministry of the Interior in Austria. In other words, this has taken together the entire annual budget of education and science, and – as a foreign-political speaker I allow the comment – it is the 30 or 40 times of the entire annual budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What will we do in this situation? – Mr Cap has remained guilty of the answer, Mr Faymann remains guilty, Mr Pröll remains quite guilty. [[Abg. Strache: But the Master Teacher gives it: The Communist Plan System! Mr. Oberleiter, the Communist Plan System!]] We are listening to the 127th administrative reform. Within 30 years. Should be: We make an administrative reform, if it is true – I have lost faith in it, but maybe it really comes. How many billions will it bring up to 2013? – Say some number! 1 billion €, 2 billion €? If we say quite generously € 2 billion, then we still have € 10 billion in interest payments. Do what? [[Abg. May. Stefan:... to say something or to ask something?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Explain it to us!]] And the Minister refuses to have a tax reform discussion? [[Abg. Just tell me what you want!]] No, there will have to be temporary fiscal measures! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Not the small earners, not the minimum pensioners, but those of which we can expect a larger solidarity contribution; for example, I am and this is all we are sitting here in the hall. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. May. Stefan: In concrete terms, what does that bring?]] [[Abg. Strache: At your own salary note you vote against it!]] Should we cut the pensions instead? Should we increase the school maximum to 50 and pay less teachers et cetera? – Tell me a better alternative! I already know the recipe of the FPÖ. Lower taxes, higher expenditure, but not deficits, because you write it that way. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] That bores me to death. To the credit terminal. – The light is not yet finally lit, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7492	Professor, we are very late. Please don't charge the final rate! But Your final sentence is now in existence.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7519	Thank you, Mr President. I can speak for a final sentence. For small and medium-sized enterprises, I propose tax subsidies, whether in the field of VAT, or in the area of pay-related taxes – tax receipts against low pay for three months, to six months, on which one can debate. [[Abg. May. Stefan: What does that bring?]] This does not cost the state at all, but helps small and medium-sized enterprises to maintain the liquidity they need, for example, rather than using operating funds. [[Abg. Strache: What's that cost?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7570	For the next five speeches, the speaking time will be limited to a maximum of 4 minutes. I give the acoustic sign in time for a final sentence. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7594	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! For me as a women's politician, of course, the question is: How does this budget affect women in Austria? The most important first: The women's budget is being increased, and this is important in economically difficult times, because it is also to be seen as a commitment by the entire federal government to the importance of equality between women and men. It is also due to the insight that confessions alone do not benefit, but that these confessions also have to be made financially and covered by the budget. The women's minister's agendas are €1.3 million more available in 2009 and € 1.1 million more in 2010. – This enables the Minister of Women to work more and better so that more can be done for women. What can be achieved with this? – There are about 110 women’s counsellors, women’s services and women’s emergency calls, thus ensuring their funding. In the women's institutions, around 500 employees are in charge of around 100 000 women at 150 000 advisory hours in the year. – All these employees are grateful. This advisory effort will not be reduced in times of difficulty, but will, of course, be increased. It is expected that when times become more difficult, the violent spiral will continue. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenges of the crisis and the difficulties in the labour market will, of course, also affect women to a great extent. Therefore, they need adequate and multi-layered professional advice. With this plus in the budget, the women's services can be further expanded. Women's services services provide comprehensive advice, which is necessary and important. An increase was also provided for the intervention agencies. This is also a necessary measure for our fight against violence against women and against violence in the family. It is also ensured that this emergency home will now be given a new address for victims of trafficking in women. This is important because the old one is not safe enough now because it cannot be kept secret. It would also be important – and I am convinced that we are doing this together – to set up an emergency home for forced women. Again and again, this is a subject, and these women too must be helped. An emergency home for forced married people! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In principle, it is to be said on this budget that it is an employment impulse budget. It shows – and this is also to be said – a social-democratic manuscript, and therefore – that must also be said – it is good for women. We invest in social security and in the fight against unemployment. [[Abg. Bucher: But you don't have anything else left, do you?]] In recent years, the budget has already done a lot for low-paid women. I would remind you of the removal of the unemployment insurance contribution for low wages or of a minimum of € 1 000. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] This will continue by installing the National Action Plan for Gender Equality. This is an important measure, and it will affect women in so far as they often work in service professions, precisely these businesses are small businesses and therefore they cannot be considered by women. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] [[President Neugebauer once again gives the bell sign.]] Thus, the estimate for measures relating to short-time work or to short-time work is...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7649	The time has passed, Mrs Colleague! [[After a few more words with off-line microphone, Abg leaves. May. Worm the speaker's mouth.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7690	Mr President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Strache is not here, but I would have liked to tell him that I am very disappointed by him and by his way of making politics, ladies and gentlemen. [[Oh-Rufe at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: We will tell him!]] It's not responsible for what's happening here! It is not responsible to approach Austria, to approach Austria's economic location and to endanger 60 000 jobs in the Raiffeisen sector. Mr. Strache, think about this! I think it would be better if you thought something wrong. [[Abg. May. Stefan:... money speculated!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Raiffeisen is today a multifunctional close-up supplier in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. Take note of this at last! Raiffeisen is a multifunctional close-up supplier, not only in the banking sector, but also in the goods and processing sector, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I am really glad that this Federal Government, and especially Finance Minister Josef Pröll, made it clear yesterday how we can secure this economic location, how we can secure jobs, how we can secure income, how we can strengthen purchasing power. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Niederknien!]] This budget gives us the security to address the major challenges, ladies and gentlemen. This is a responsible policy of Josef Pröll! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am convinced that this tax reform and economic programmes in Austria will work well to cope with this crisis. I also say today and ask all the political parties here to ensure that this difficult phase of social peace remains. Let's not run a class fight on the back of others! Don't we run a class struggle, for example, on the back of the farmers! I am very glad that the budget has ensured that we can release EU co-financing for the next two years, because farmers need it in times like this. Think of the many dairy farmers, the prices have gone down! I remember discussions – even here in the House – in which one has tried to make food responsible for the fact that there has been this rate of inflation. This is irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The dairy farmers and all farmers in Austria have also earned a fair price for their services and for their high-quality products they produce in Austria. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I also reject constantly discussing less money and compensation for farmers. I have already refused to discuss whether to introduce a property tax. Whoever this is based on, here's a clear rejection: There is no wealth tax with us! There is no basic tax with us! There are no traffic values with us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There's a unit value with us. We do not want new property taxes, and I hope that this will finally go through Styria to Mr Voves. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] In this sense: Thank you, Minister of Finance! Thank you very much for this security that you give to the Austrian people so that they have work to earn income!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7805	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7826	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Have you heard from Mr Grillitsch: There is no wealth tax!? – But it says the SPÖ, there will be wealth taxes. Who's going to get through now? [[Abg. May. Gaßner: What does the FPÖ say?]] What will you do if the ÖVP says: not with us!Unknown term type: "%s".? Is there any new elections? [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Yes...!]] Is there any new elections? Does the SPÖ, in turn, say goodbye to its election promises? I'm looking forward to it. But I trust to take a bet. I have great confidence in Mr. Klubobmann Cap: I bet with you that in this legislative period there will be no wealth taxes to a ostrich of red cloves. [[Abg. Silhavy: We are in Parliament and not bet!]] We can then pass it on to our women: a ostrich of red cloves. I'm excited who will win this bet, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Van der Bellen, you are a very sympathetic gentleman for my terms, but I would also like to ask you a question. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If the Greens would lose 3 percent of the votes in the next election, how much would that be about in absolute votes? – 150 000 votes would be about it. That's what you'll have to expect, I assume. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we are dealing with a difficult budget, a budget that will also bring burdens for the future, we must ensure that there is no imbalance. People will also get sick now, be disabled, need to be in need of care. You need support. On the other hand, we have people who are very greedy – a sin of death, as you know – and to whom you throw good money. How does a Alfred Ötsch feel when he flies a company to the wall and then registers a million-severe waste? How do the rulings of Constantia Privatbank feel when the taxpayer has to be liable for hundreds of millions of euros, the National Bank is still paying €50 million in cash, and then three people are cashing €30 million, three people, the three Board members of this bank? – We are also responsible in politics that this is possible in Austria. We from the Freedom Party are for property and for achievement, but we are also in favour of asking those who are greedy and beyond all measure of wealth to accumulate. An example of this would be Ruttenstorfer, who now invests €620 000 in shares and gains €44,000 by insider knowledge within a few days. For this, an Austrian must work for two years! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: This is the presumption of innocence!]] Or: Minister Schmied, who worked in the municipal credit and filed an adventurous deal there. I hear that even now payments are still to be made; maybe she can somehow pay this out in instalments, I don't know. But here, too, I wonder: We have to save this bank, we take it, and Mrs. Schmied, as responsible for hundreds of thousands of euros in disposal? – I can only congratulate you there, ladies and gentlemen! A million Austrians are at risk of poverty! I recently had contact with a lady from the Caritas, she says: You can't imagine how big the hidden poverty is in Austria. There are many people who don't admit it, but they really are very bad. That is why it is our responsibility, even in these difficult times, to pay attention to social balance and not to leave those who really need our help and our support. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7929	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7951	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! In an economically difficult situation, this government is trying to get through by presenting a budget that is a record debt budget. This is their way of getting out of the crisis. But I do not think that is enough because what we are missing and what I miss is that a sufficient will to reform becomes visible in this budget. We hear only statements of intent on your part as regards health reform, administrative reform or also education reform. The best example of this – I said it yesterday – is this educational budget. With this educational budget, which is now available, it is impossible to make the necessary reforms! In the end, it is only an admission of the defeat of this federal government to a standing representative. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Overall, the losers of education are our system, which is so in need of reform, the students and also the dedicated teachers. This budget for education – I would like to call it a ‘union package’ – simply does not agree with the figures that Mrs Minister mentioned at the last committee meeting. She said she needed €525 million for all the reform projects she then listed. If I look at the budget now, only 288 million are secured with these so-called savings measures, and in the budget itself – also in your speech – € 422 million are secured. So we have three different figures, and it is actually nothing of what was ultimately promised or demanded by the competent minister of expertise. There are also the receipts of the rent over the BIG, and I believe that in the end, you don't have to pay any savings, but at some point you have to pay. That is why I say that this budget – I take the educational budget as an example – is probably the same for many others – is made up of mogel packs. It's mogel packs that are supposed to make us know that this is going to be the right place to react in a crisis. But this government lacks broad vision, also confidence and courage as it gives the right answers in the field of education. While they are always trying to formulate the intentions, the sustainable answers are missing. Where is the answer to the after-supply problem that we still have in Austria? – €150 million parents have to spend annually for re-help. Where is the answer to promotions that are possible for our children and for the families who have to pay it? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Where is the answer to the multi-tracks in the school administration, in the area of the various school holders? Where is the answer to the multi-tracks of the supervisory bodies? – If you look at the budget, you can see that the staff costs of the supervisory bodies in the school administration are rising by €7 million. For what do these rise by €7 million? How much do we need? [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] I say that this budget is not – as you have said, Minister of Finance, – a roadmap for the future, [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] But it is rather a roadmap into an uncertain future, into a future, in which at best the principle counts hope: Hope it'll get better in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8020	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8041	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! “Kampfansage to the crisis”, said Minister of Finance Pröll, calling his budget speech yesterday. If you listen carefully, it's clear what people need and want: They want useful help and not fluent sayings, Minister of Finance. If you look more closely at the budget, you can also see that the government has two serious problems. One thing is: They lack any idea of a goal-setting, forward-looking way out of the crisis. And the second is: You have no idea what a crisis budget really needs to look like. I call you two central areas where you can see this very well. On the one hand, this is research. Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, you said in your government statement that Austria must be one of the most innovative countries in Europe. They are right because research and innovation secure jobs in Austria. This also shows a recent study by the Economic Research Institute, presented last month: The higher the share of research, the higher the turnover growth and employment growth in companies. But what are you doing in concrete terms, what are you doing in the government? – If you look at the European rankings, you see that we are not at the forefront, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, we are not among the most innovative, and with this budget, ladies and gentlemen, we will not improve our competitive position in the world, but we will certainly not improve. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Can I replicate right now!]] If you look at the rate of increase – there are so many numbers on the go that are now quite misleading in this form – if you look at what is left for research, for development in the narrower sense, for the best minds in the country, then you can see that the increase in research resources in your ministry, Mrs Bures, is now only 3.4 percent. The very important funding agency FFG then remains just 2.9 percent of the increase. You know exactly when you're saving today, that's the wrong place to do it, because research today is starved to pay expensive tomorrow. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This means that we need much more financial resources to secure future technologies, and that means nothing more than opportunities and jobs in the future areas of environment and energy technology, biotechnology, medical technology. That's exactly where you have to invest! I come to the next point, the so-called economic packages 1 and 2. What actually happened after seven months? – If you look closely at the current example of the renovation check, you can see the following: Owners of houses that invest in thermal renovation struggle through the jungle and get five different information points from three information points to one and the same facts. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: This is a green...!]] Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, there is already a question: Is that intention? Don't you want the money to be picked up? [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Another example is the SME Fund: To this day, there's no such thing as him! He's been announced for months. There is, of course, already the big question Where is the forward-looking budget? [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] – I tell you that the Austrians no longer want to wait, they do not want to be eaten anymore. Now we really need to get a proper budget on the journey.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8112	For the next seven speeches – including those made by the government bank – I set a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8137	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would also like to thank the staff members of the Ministry of Finance, who, thanks to their expertise and excellence, have been very much involved in the preparation of this budget. Helmut Schmidt, former German Chancellor, once said: The character proves itself in the crisis. – In this crisis, the Austrian Federal Government demonstrates its character with the budget presented! We set the right priorities – social security, future investment, security of purchasing power – and thus we set the measures to ensure that the economic crisis will not be a social crisis too. [[Abg. Vilimsky: This is a dangerous statement!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This crisis is a crisis of those who believed: More private, less state, policy should stand out from everything because the market itself regulates itself. This crisis also proves that the ladies and gentlemen who believed this were wrong. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the asset tax?]] With this budget, we are presenting a draft that sets out a priority, for example, in the area of the labour market. € 190 million for short work alone, € 978 million in 2009 alone for active labour market policies are figures that impressively underline that this Federal Government is not only willing but also willing to take the necessary money to secure employment in that country. We increase social welfare expenditure by € 3 billion to € 24.6 billion by 2010. This figure, too, underlines that this budget is fully aware of social responsibility in times of crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one question many are asking is: Who will bear the cost of this crisis? . In the next two years, we deliberately take up a deficit because we know that we also do the right thing with the money we use, because we invest in social security, in infrastructure and in the future. However, it is also a question of the character that in the future those who have best earned their contribution to the system of superfluous financial capitalism in the past. There are measures to be taken here, and this federal government, for example, has demonstrated its willingness to take measures in this regard by removing the Stock Options, a stock privilege for managers. Finally, Mr President: We have presented a budget with which we do the right thing in difficult times. With this budget and with all our political actions, we are on the side of those people who are currently concerned and who know that they can rely on us.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8199	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8220	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already spoken around that we unfortunately have an international crisis. The crisis is not, as has already been said several times today, that we had said this, caused by the house builder in America, but the problem was that the banks have passed on these demands over and over again. And this Leverage effect has done exactly what Jakob Auerges said, namely that business has been created out of nowhere from the real economy, and that has triggered the crisis. However, it is also clear that we can only cope internationally with the crisis with a share of GDP in exports of 60 percent. And there is also the question of the strategy. Moody is clear: You have to go real, that is, what is feasible, you also have to address and implement accordingly. On the other hand, you must not be sickening the economy now. Therefore, a dosed atmospheric procedure is necessary, including the measures to be taken. I believe that in economically difficult times, where revenue is falling, it is necessary to make sense to save, but where necessary, to force areas. Ladies and gentlemen, I find – Mrs Haubner is not inside right now – we are not diving through the crisis, but quite the contrary, we are actively designing. What can a country do in this area? Point one: We see that the structures are essentially preserved, model short work. But that's just a temporary model. The answer to market questions must also be given to the market, which must be given to businesses, which we cannot give. Therefore, this time must now be used for restructuring, for new markets. Especially in the export sector, the action of the Federal Government to win new markets, new customers, is extremely important when one sees that the market breaks by 25 percent. Second point: We need funding for SMEs. Now is the time of the regions, the time of the middle class. The AWS initiative takes effect. We have already funded 1 000 projects, 13 percent more than in the same period of the previous year. Thirdly, We must, and this is very important, stimulate demand. Now also the domestic market and the advanced investment in the area of BIG help us. – Minister of Finance, I hope that I will also receive the money we spend in other areas. [[Abg. Grosz: It's already going on!]] – This will be of use to us, but also to the thermal rehabilitation. Mrs Colleagues, we have a run on the thermal rehabilitation as well as on the scrapping premium. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] That is why – that is my final sentence –: I think the government is fighting the crisis very actively according to the motto: The crisis is fighting, helping vigorously, but on the other hand it is also budgeting in a large way.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8266	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8287	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I would like to take a statement here, namely the claim that this government is not doing anything against the crisis. Let us take a look at this in the international comparison. For weeks the newspapers were full: Obama: “Yes, we can!” 790 billion US dollars in two years to boost the economy. [[Abg. Grosz: Leave Obama alone at last!]] These expenditures are used there for tax relief, investment in infrastructure, health insurance and unemployment benefit. Let us look at the budget of this government. [[Abg. The next senior teacher!]] The Americans amounted to 5.5 percent of the gross domestic product, Austria, when we combined the two years 2009/2010, almost €5 billion for tax reform, €2,135 million and €2,858 million in the two years, €1.3 billion more for education, education and research, €905 million more for research and development, €2,97 billion for social security and the labour market, €828 million for family support, € 145 million for health and then the economic packages. A billion € for Business Package I including liabilities and loans – these are also in the Americas – 900 million € additional investments at ASFINAG and train. That is a total of € 13.7 billion and not less than 4.91 percent, i.e. 5% of GDP. - Yes, we do! We are at least as good as the Americans and much better than all other European countries. And I would like to congratulate this government first. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can provide you with the figures: Germany employs only 2.4 percent of GDP in the two years, Spain 1.5 percent, Great Britain 1.18 percent, France 1.30 percent. There is much less active action in all the countries mentioned above. It's not right that it's a minimundus package. It's a real package. We have a country in which we are actively fighting the crisis, and therefore unemployment will not increase as much as in other countries, so growth will not break down as much and therefore we will be better at the end of the crisis as a country because this government is acting and does not wait. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8351	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8372	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Col. Matznetter has already described it impressively: This government is doing something for the economy. Vice-Chancellor Pröll, under difficult conditions, has conducted the budgetary negotiations and has taken a realistic budgetary course, ladies and gentlemen, in which both the poor economic situation and the necessary economic stability are included. A country's governance means reacting in difficult times and setting the right future-setting priorities. That is responsible action! Secondly, Austria has long been a high tax country and has one of the highest social rates worldwide with a 30 percent share of the social product. Since talking about inequalities or redistributions is unfair and, in fact, insidious. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Most of our companies are small and medium-sized enterprises, and they employ 65 percent of employees. The reintroduction of the property tax required by some politicians would mean that 80 percent of these are to be paid by the companies. discharge, not burden, ladies and gentlemen, must exist for our companies. We are on the right track with tax reform and business package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this country, at least 2.7 million people who pay taxes, account for 2.7 million people who do not pay taxes. And the service providers, say the middle class, we must not overshadow them. We must not be afraid to stand at the service, so that performance is recognised and rewarded. The motivation of our service providers, our companies, and this includes all entrepreneurs, must be given further, because only then can the social systems work. I conclude with a quote from Winston Churchill: Many think that the entrepreneur is a raw wolf that has to be beaten to death. Others think that the entrepreneur is a cow that should be milked continuously. Only a few recognize in him the horse that pulls the cart. Ladies and gentlemen, we know from the ÖVP that our entrepreneurs are the train horses and, at this time, because the soil is deep and the load is heavy, they are essential to the success of this country. Let's support them!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8429	Next speaker: Mr Haimbuchner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8451	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen at the audience gallery, especially dear seniors from my home Upper Austria! A well-known saying is: Save in time, then you're in trouble! In this respect, it is only natural for you to have to take over more money in difficult times, and then there will necessarily be a deficit. The tragedy of the situation is that in the good times we did not save that we did not put money aside in the good times, but that the money was thrown out of the window. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: But there you were in the government!]] This is an irresponsible policy! And now everyone is talking about an international crisis that we are actually experiencing. But the debt we have to bear over the next decades has its cause in the past, and you are also responsible for that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: You were in the government!]] As a member of the young generation in Austria, I would like to speak to you once again and again about what you are doing for young people, but we, the young Austrians, will have to bear this debt burden and reduce this debt. [[Abg. Silhavy: You must have forgotten that the FPÖ was in the government!]] [[Abg. Strache: We have to take over your debts!]] It is interesting to take out one area once, namely the field of research. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We strive to achieve a research rate of around 3 percent. In Sweden and Finland, we have a research rate of about 3.9 to 4 percent. What are you doing for the young people in this country? - You're not doing anything! On the one hand, we will have to reduce the debts you have made in recent decades, on the other hand, you will not support the young people in this country. They always act as state-bearing parties, especially the rulings of the ÖVP. Don't always talk about being responsible! Don't always talk about it plainly! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] What we need is a policy that is based on a sense of responsibility and not just flattened.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8554	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8576	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! You certainly know all of this surprise package: If you pull it, it makes a fool and a clown jumps out. Similarly, you can imagine making up this budget: Mr. Finanzminister jumps out, he's making a mess and he shows you the long nose. That's how this budget looks! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: I've thought Stadler is jumping out!]] Klubobmann Cap has already mentioned it: We have the most difficult crisis in Austria for 80 years. They always say it comes from America, as if Austria had nothing to do with it. I'm thinking about the BAWAG. The BAWAG calamities were caused by Austrians from your group. That's what your trade unionists were! I'll tell you something. This budget has been set aside for two years. Two years! In the private sector, the budget is made quarterly, with us for over two years. How sustainable that can be, everyone can calculate themselves. I am also very excited about the attitude of Mr Kopf, who will have to deliver the funds of the regional health fund Vorarlberg, which operates well, to Vienna. You're gonna do that, I'm looking at that. I have already rejected this, a few years ago, as the only Vorarlberger, at the time still in the FPÖ, as the only one of the FPÖs at that time, and I will do so this time too. [[Abg. Head: No, no, no!]] I can promise people that. Ladies and gentlemen! The increase in the price of vignettes is a purely monetary measure for the budget, as is the increase in traffic penalties. With more certainty, it has nothing to do at all. If we see that the penalties are only increased and a uniform catalogue of fines that we have long called for, and that is done all over the country, only for the motorways, then we see, it is only about getting under the arms of the ASFINAG, which is financially very poor. That's just about getting money. Mrs Fekter, this is the wrong way! You have to put more police on the street because the punishment works on the spot. The foreign drivers don't slip through. It is important that not only the Austrian driver is made a milk cow of the nation again, which he is already. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to speak briefly to the second path tunnel tube in Vorarlberg. This is again seen in the sustainable, happening policy of the ÖVP. I remember, Transport Minister Gorbach forced the construction of a second path tunnel tube. I've been fighting for it for ten years. Ex-Landesrat Just from the ÖVP said at the shooting party that it was built ten years too late. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] So you, who have always prevented this, have built ten years too late! All in all on the subject of budget: Mr Finanzminister! Five, please sit!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8643	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8665	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In 3 minutes, the ORF shall conclude its television transmission of this debate in accordance with the agreement. [[Abg. Jury: He's already moderated!]] [[Abg. Mayerhofer: The Protector of Austrian Police!]] Many will wonder why, in a budget debate, emotions will become stronger when there is a dispute over raiffeisen. And I would like to answer this question now. There is currently in Austria a power struggle not really perceived by the public for the domination in the media between Raiffeisen on the one hand and the “Kronen Zeitung” on the other. The interests of Raiffeisen are traditionally represented by the ÖVP, the interests of the “Kronen Zeitung” recently by the Freedom Party. [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] Both are only in one opinion: The billions of assets of both Raiffeisen and Dienand must not be taxed. Few property taxes on raiffeisen, Dijand and the “Kronen Zeitung” are possible. This is nothing new at the ÖVP. Excitingly, for the first time, the Freedom Party represents not the “little people”, but the interests of the “Kronen Zeitung” billionaire against the readers of the “Kronen Zeitung”. [[Abg. Strache: This is the Communist Pilz again! The Marxist rumples!]] It's a very simple bill: Coping with the crisis is becoming expensive. Additional public expenditure will be needed and new forms of financing will have to be provided. The Republic will need billions of euros to finance ways out of the crisis. This will be paid either by the people who already carry almost alone the entire burden of the budgets: the workers, the small self-employed and the medium-sized enterprises of this Republic. They already bear all the burdens – but have no blame for the crisis. For the first time in two decades, the rich and super-rich are also supposed to make a contribution to help cope with the crisis. And then ÖVP and FPÖ stand up and say: No, without us! We are Mr Dienand and Mr Konrad is more important than the tens of thousands of victims of the crisis. – I tell you one thing, Mr Strache: It's bad! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Street: I'm telling you what's bad: living in a community apartment with your income, that's bad!]] It's bad! This is a measure of political corruption that is bad for you as a self - appointed tribunal of “little people. ” [[Abg. Strache: You take away the community apartment someone who would really need it! It's bad!]] They're betraying these people from the FPÖ! And the victims of the crisis have a right to a clean and credible parliamentary representation. Say goodbye, Mr. Strache! I'm sure you're not! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] We must find a majority in this House in order to distribute the burden of the crisis fairly, and we will try to find a majority, with all the means available to us, with the colleagues from SPÖ, but also with Members of other parties, a majority, a parliamentary majority for a fair and fair management of the crisis. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: The very low force!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: The ever-increasing forces!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8820	Ladies and gentlemen, free speaking time is now in force. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gaßner. I'll set up for three minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8844	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very bad speaking time!]] It is a very bad time to speak as the television is off, Mr Westenthaler. However, I am not a parliamentarian in order to be able to act large on television, but to really care about the problems of this Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This morning I heard in the news from 6 a.m. that today is a “great war day” in the Hohen Haus. The budget is being discussed, and the opposition has been prepared. – From the “Great Battle Day” I have not felt much so far, but I have noticed that there was still very little time to study the budget that we received yesterday in a nearly 10 kilo package, because what was so given by itself is certainly not appropriate for a proper budget. [[Abg. Bucher: You've studied the entire budget? Is that right?]] Mr Bucher, I have not been able to study it, I have just taken out a few necessary booklets for myself. And so that the spectators also know: The budget debate in detail is only going on next month, and everything you have given here today is, in part, a very, very big show. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When I hear again and again, wealth tax no!, wealth tax no!, do not attack anyone who may have too much money, then I ask myself or ask those who constantly say how this should go. If, for example, Mr. Haimbuchner says he, the boy, he has to pay it back – now he's gone, now he's going to strengthen himself – but on the other hand, he says, yes, no taxation from those who have a lot of money, then I'm wondering: What are we gonna do? Then how is it really? If Mr Grillitsch says – I think he has promised – there is no basic tax with us, then he should talk to his parishioners, to the mayors, which they say when there is no basic tax. He probably didn't mean an increased basic tax. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: He didn't say that!]] No, no, he already said that. Read it, colleague. He said there was no basic tax with us. So that's probably not the point of the whole thing, and I'm still waiting for the answer: What do we do, then, when it comes to repaying this debt, which is now absolutely correct? Then what do we do? We just have to take care of such things once too. And here I already have the idea that those who have a lot of money contribute a lot, and those who have little to do little to be able to repay these debts. For the budget now, because we were already with the communities. There's such a little book for financial compensation. I hope that the figures in there will be explained in the discussion when it comes to the facts, because, as far as I have read them, the allocation of needs to the communities is shortened. I hope that this is the new budgetary law and that it appears somewhere else. For example, the funds of the disaster fund are also cut short. Here again, I hope that this is just another presentation based on the new budgetary right. One word on agriculture and its budget. This has been increased, slightly increased, that is also good. And I think that we should now really be looking at meeting the demand of the government programme, namely that agricultural support be really fair and socially fair. This is what we should go about now, and in the next few years we will have the opportunity to do so in the course of the amendments to the agricultural legislation. Mr Grillitsch has spoken of the dairy farmers. I mean, any statements about this don't help them. We really need to give them help, otherwise these dairy farmers will soon no longer receive our beautiful landscape, as Mr Finanzminister said yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, I am looking forward to the detailed negotiations in the Committee on Budgets and again here in plenary.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8917	The next item is the speech by Mr Grossruck. Fixed speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8938	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the audience gallery! I too, Mr Gaßner, heard radio early this morning when we went down to Vienna at 6 p.m. and, of course, also followed the “Morgenjournal” closely to hear what the comments to the budget are. A message is pending: Who will be paying back all the debts that have been taken up – by the way, by the way, this is a semantic mistake, I can't take up debts, but I'll make debt when I take up money? It has happened to me as if Mr Strache would speak out here. Another question – take the lead with me, Mr. Strache: What if, today, Minister Pröll would have presented exactly what you asked for in your speech? Do you know how you responded? – Just the opposite would have She said: He saves Austria dead, no money for economic shocks. [[Abg. Strache: You say that!]] That's the game. They go out and play the saviour of Austria and do nothing but simply, simple opposition policy to frighten the people and to overwhelm everything. Of course, it is the task of the opposition to criticise, Mr Strache, but not to go here and make everything ready, although serious economists and experts – I do not mean you – say that what the Minister of Finance has done is the right way in this crisis. [[Abg. Strache: Probably I am guilty now that we have so many unemployed!]] For me, these people are already more credible than your obvious, transparent and populist opposition policy. [[Abg. Strache: Mr Krugman, for example!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have to answer that yourself anyway. Anyway, with the way you spoke today, you would never be able to cope with the crisis or meet it. Ladies and gentlemen, you see, this discussion is not only held in Austria, it is also being held in Germany: Are we doing too much? Are we doing too little? Are we gonna do it too soon? Are we too short? - Nobody knows. Anyone who says today knows how the crisis will end when it will end is a charlatan. Nobody knows. We can only hope that it will soon be over and that there will be an upward. In addition to financial history, of course, it is also a psychological one. I heard a very wise sentence yesterday, where one said that the crisis is over when no one talks about it anymore. Perhaps we talk too much about it, perhaps we should do the opposite and say that we will manage it, we have also dealt with crises in the past. [[Abg. Let's keep quiet! Not to mention all the abuses!]] There is nothing to do with this, Mr Strache, if you, like today, go to the EU. What are you doing? All serious professionals, all serious people, say that the EU has helped us in this crisis. Imagine that we did not have the euro, as it would have been speculated with schilling. We'd look different. [[Abg. Strache: This has just begun the whole deregulation and globalisation!]] Unfortunately, this says opposition parties in other countries or thank God otherwise than you. They say we're glad we got the euro. We are glad that we are not delivered to the speculations of the Americans with the schilling. Then you've done something else, you've defamed those banks that have invested in the East. Now there are many here who are taking a picture of the investments our banks have made in the East. First and foremost, they have put money and banking in order in these countries, provided security. They have supported investments, mainly those that have benefited our small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Strache: For whom the taxpayer has to stand straight today!]] You probably won't know anyone. I can list a handful of companies alone in my district of Grieskirchen, which have benefited from this eastern opening, from this investment in the East, and will benefit from it even after the crisis. One should not be so shortsighted and say, now we are turning everything around, the crisis is there. There is also a post-crisis, and we will certainly have benefits again if we stand for our investments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So, Mr Strache, not Austria's commitment, no EU hostility, no envy! Fight in the EU outside really for Austria, but not like your colleague, Mölzer, whom you have read about when the ranking is true that he has not been one of the most diligent. [[Abg. Street: After the ranking he is the most diligent!]] So finally, a four-lineer of mine – no, I needed a six-liner for this, Mr. Strache: “I am shocked! What do I have to read? Who has been the most lazy in the European Parliament? [[Abg. Swoboda!]] A blue is it, a sauberman who returns to the elections and calls himself Andreas Mölzer.” This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! Don't talk great, but by their deeds you will recognize them and not by their words.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9084	The next item is the speech by Mr Grastaur. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9106	High house! Dear Members of the Government! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Grossruck Mayor, MP Mölzer is not the most lazy, but the most hard-working Member in the EU Parliament. Just so that it's clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Because he represents Austrian interests while you are against a referendum!]] You only need to look at the statistics, then the story becomes even clearer. To the EU you are defending, I would like to tell you, please read the “Volkswirt”, last published by Mr Barazon. There's clearly in there: The EU has no economic competence. It cannot take any measures and cannot therefore finance them. - First of all. And second: In the end, economic policy remains the responsibility of national governments and national parliaments. So far to the EU. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the banks in the East, Mr. Großruck, only so that this is also clearly stated: In the case of all the good things that have happened there, it is ultimately the case that banks in the East are open to large banks in Vienna's 230 billion euros in loans and there is a risk that 10 to 20 percent of them may no longer be available. [[Abg. Strache: You have to answer for that!]] This is a huge threat to Austria, Mr. Großruck, and that is what the Vienna banks have to answer, your friends, dear man! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Ikrath: These are not blank credits! That's weird!]] I'll tell you something, too, Mr. Ikrath. Thank you for calling me. The good news from a bank, your bank: 8 percent yield. Great! That's an invitation for people to draw money there. In the small print reads: The disbursement of the profit must be covered by the annual profit of Erste Group Bank AG and may therefore also be lost. [[Ironic calls at the FPÖ.]] Second small print: This is a marketing announcement. Please note that an investment in securities, in addition to the opportunities described, also brings risks to the total loss of the capital used. – So far to what you can think of the Austrian large banks. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Do you want honest, consumer-friendly information suddenly no longer?]] Yes, yes, Mr. Ikrath, that's it. I would like to thank the officials of the Federal Ministry of Finance very much, as the budget speaker of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. They did good work. There have been not only 10 kilograms of paper delivered, but 10 kilograms of enormous content, which greatly facilitates our work here in Parliament. Thank you, Mr. Steger! Thanks a lot! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should like to say to Mr Pröll's budget speech yesterday that I have been disappointed. It wasn't really a famous speech. It has not brought anything new to me, no highlights, nothing about how the economic crisis, which, as I believe, is not taken seriously by the government, really gets under control and can permanently do something about it. What I believe should be the greatest challenge for this government is the fight against unemployment. This is often referred to, but if one reads in the reports that an unemployment rate of 8.2 and 8.3 per cent is rewritten, then I cannot imagine that this is seriously thought of doing something against unemployment. I think we should take much more money into our hands, first use more money to boost the economy. It is a way of combating unemployment in a truly sustainable way, because it is only with the promotion of the paragraph that it is possible to stop the unemployed, and everything else will probably not lead to the goal. I am a merchant, as you know, and I experience things here in the National Council and in the Government, and I have to say that I am really surprised how bad Austria has been managed as a company Austria, how much mismanagement there is here, how little crisis management there is, how few controls there are. The budget speech I had to hear yesterday arrived like this for me: No courage and no confidence are triggered here, but uncertainty and distrust are shaken. And that's the bad thing about it. In Austria we needed courage, courage and renewed courage and trust of the people in us and in the economy. Then, I think it'll go up again. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9215	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Strutz. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9237	High house! The EIA will always find an excuse when it comes to making promises that it has given citizens before the election to break after the election. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I remember once it was the flood in Lower Austria that had to last when the tax reform was cancelled, now it is the banking crisis that is being addressed to an economic crisis in order not to comply with what is promised to the citizens before the election, namely, with the budget implementation, savings and reforms. What we are criticizing is that despite this huge burden of debt that you are putting on Parliament and the Austrians today, there are no reforms, even in the budget accompanying legislation, which can be felt and proved. Where are the reforms in the field of education? Where are the health reforms? There are large million subsidies to the health insurance companies, but only for one reason: so that you can cut off your officials, who are also personally liable as directors there, from this liability and from the knitting. But there are no reforms in the administration. There are no laws that force these managers to actually implement reforms and savings measures. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you save and feel like it to the Austrians, then save on the wrong spot. You save on safety, you save on education, you save in the social field. My predecessor has spoken about a security statement, and this one should actually be on the budget: Read the little print! It's a mogel pack that you're presenting to the High House here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We'll see it with the ministers. I have to use myself again for the ladies in the government today, because what the Minister of Education says This is only a piece of money against what the Minister of Justice, but also the Minister of the Interior, will have to do. At first, there will be 167 additional executive officers, but even with 1,000 extra police officers, there will be around 3,000 men and women under the staff status of 1999, as the statistics of the Ministry of Finance show. In 1999, however, we have not had such a high rate of crime. It's a mogel pack. Less personnel, more work for the Minister of Justice. You're sorry now, because what's being pre-practiced by the teachers is going to happen to you now with the judges and the prosecutors. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] High house! Nice words, but no deeds! The thing I blame you for in this budget is: They therefore endanger social peace in Austria. You drive the people, you drive the workers on the road – yes, you force them to go on the road. The Austrians now have to pay the token for this missing budget policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9306	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9327	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot, but some things have not even been asked. For example, I wonder if the story that the Minister of Finance told us yesterday is really true. The Minister of Finance has said that the crisis would have taken place from the domestic farmers in the USA; then, somehow, it would have passed through any complications on our continent and by chance, our poor country, too, would have caught nothing for the crisis at all. [[Abg. Kickl: Revenge of the Indians!]] Is that the truth, ladies and gentlemen? Is it not true, for example, that the banks in the United States have a certain duty if they grant loans? Isn't it true that they didn't realize this duty in the lending process, they wanted to do their business on devils, and then, when they saw what was going on, they developed the products, that is, the risks sold out, bundled and portioned? And then these products as so-called “toxic products” also landed “by chance” with our banks! A few weeks ago, I spoke to someone who knows the scene from the inside. He tells me – and this illustrates the situation very well, I believe – that our banks, but of course also the international banks are engaged in external consultants for expensive money, shopping, which they are supposed to advise them about which “toxic products” are stored in the banks at all, because the banks or the bankers do not even know what kind of damage they have purchased or purchased! This is a point in the statement given wrong yesterday by the Minister for Finance. Second point: We have had a debate about tax havens in recent weeks. That's what the bank secret was about. Our position on this is quite clear. In my opinion, however, what has been discussed far too little – also in connection with Austrian banking aid – is the following: It is also about those tax havens that I would prefer to call “low tax havens”. And it is not a matter of this, not even in the current disparity, that you know from Jersey about Delaware – some in this house know what it has to do with the state of Delaware and how you can invest cheaply there – right up to the Caribbean, where an Austrian bank has been almost reduced, under the exclusion of taxes Austrian funds and can withdraw taxation here! They were our banks. Starting from all the country mortgage banks that are owned by the countries, up to the big banks you will find when you go through Jersey, Delaware and all the Karibikinseln, all of our banks again. These are Austrian taxpayers, they are the funds of the Austrians who were laid out there! And now the banks, including in Parliament, are standing in front of us, before the government, saying: We need money from the taxpayer. – To keep the game going?- Oh, my God! So that this can be continued unlit?- Oh, my God! I would have expected a more courageous response from the Minister of Finance or an attempt to provide an answer to this issue at European level, not only at the level that has now been tried with the OECD list. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So far nothing has happened, ladies and gentlemen. It would be urgently necessary for these low-tax oasiss to be closed, because these tax havens have also led Austria to believe that we could only retain a part with a lower taxation of high assets or foundations – only a part – of these millions and billions also with us! Where are the answers of politics?- Oh, my God! There would be a question of political answers, ladies and gentlemen. That is why the accusation to you, to the government parties, but also to certain parts of the opposition – namely to those who say we can't demand anything from the rich – is justified. In the crisis too, politics is being made for the rich. - That can't be! Last point, ladies and gentlemen Ladies and gentlemen: I have looked at the chapter unemployment insurance or work, as it is now called. Yes, more is spent, for the administration of unemployment! Where is that demanded by almost all the parties together, namely an increase in unemployment benefit?- Oh, my God! Faith Do you really think that the unemployed can be brought over by moderation over the next few years?- Oh, my God! Faith It is true that it can be the concept of government policy that the 100 000 or 200 000 additional unemployed, plus the 300 000 we already have, can be said for five years: Should you please, are you the causers of the crisis? – No, the unemployed are just as few as the teachers or any other group in Austria! This is also written to you in the main book.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9411	Mrs Silhavy is speaking. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9432	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We are at the beginning of the detailed debate on the budget, the budget debate. The representatives of SPÖ have explained the answers we give to this crisis in Austria – a crisis that challenges governments worldwide. We have set the following priorities: Priority for work and employment, Protection for social security, security and future social orientation through research, innovation and education. Because I'm on the subject of education: Mrs Bundesminister, the departure of the school autonomous days has caused some concern in the hotel and leisure industry, in the tourism industry. I think we will be called upon here in Parliament to find creative solutions – solutions that may also show that sports and leisure activities can bring young people back to quality of life and health. The tourism and leisure industry is an essential factor in Austria. It offers jobs on the ground in particular and is a female industry. Through the tourism and leisure industry, we work out 16 percent of GDP in Austria. Some 200 000 people are employed in this sector, so this sector is indeed of great importance to Austria. The crisis is also evident in our neighbouring countries. In particular, the German tourism industry makes advertising in its own market, namely in the German market. The Swiss tourism industry, on the other hand, attracts guests in the German market with additional resources. In Austria, we have spent €4 million more on advertising for Austria, but that will, I think, not be enough. More cooperation, for example in the context of the GENUS REGIONS, can significantly increase efficiency in this area – not that every area advertises extra for itself, but together one tries to advertise guests for our country as well as for our products. However, other priorities will also be needed. I am thinking, above all, of urban tourism, which is currently suffering very much from this economic crisis. As we will be required, the industry will still need support. Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner, who is no longer there, is right if he says that the real economy belongs to. It is about supporting those areas where jobs are created and kept, and thus the basis of life of those people who, through their performance, are developing this prosperity society in Austria. This is also the point of the distribution discussion which has already been discussed several times today. Before the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, must not be after the crisis! It must be so that work is relieved! We must ensure nationally and internationally that non-working values from a certain scale contribute to a fair society. I am confident that the policy that puts people at the centre of the thinking will also win. The social democracy in this country stands for this policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9484	Mrs Plassnik. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9505	Mr President. Ladies, my lord on the government bank! High house! The Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance said yesterday in the budget speech that the European Union proved to be a safe haven and the euro as a stable anchor. That's right. We therefore also need a powerful foreign and European policy, which effectively represents Austrian interests and gives our voice a hearing – especially at a time of tension and uncertainty. This requires professional pre-work, which requires professio- zero networks, which is the core task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with its partners and with its almost 110 branches worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen! Next week is the fifth anniversary of our neighbours' accession to the EU. This epochal event was prepared step by step, it was right and it remains forward-looking for Austria and for Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria has benefited from the case of the Iron Curtain and the accession of neighbouring countries. We took our place again in the middle of the continent. And the Austrian economy has also benefited from this EU accession of its neighbours, not only the banks but above all the SMEs, especially the jobs secured in Austria. Austria has benefited from the dynamics in the East. Our exports to this region have quadrupled and today account for almost a quarter of the volume of foreign trade. The Austrian companies know this by the way. They know that the countries previously referred to as ‘Eastern Europe’ are not a high-risk zone, even now in the crisis. An accurate look is worth it. These countries have in their majority a significantly better budgetary discipline, smaller deficits and lower debt ratios than the “old” 15 EU members. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, even in the well-understood self-interest, the Austrian companies are keeping their partners loyal in the east of our continent – and this will have a corresponding effect in better chances of yielding, after slowing growth. Let me also say a word to the Austrian banks. It is very easy to condemn, dissuade, flat-rate, but the Austrian banks – unlike banks from other countries – have almost no “poisonous securities” to quote Veit Worger, the president of the Industrial Union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] As a lender, Austrian banks have financed entirely normal industrial plants, real estates, vehicles, and from their point of view there are still increased income prospects – despite a marked slowing of growth. By the way, 2009 – according to current forecasts – there will continue to be growth in important partner countries in Austria, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Slovenia, Bulgaria and Romania will keep the level of 2008. This is also said once, even if a different impression is occasionally made in international newspapers or in comments. So let us stay away from panic, let us stay away from the loss of confidence – and let us not risk the benefits that Austria has, also in foreign policy, also in Europe's policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Austrian foreign policy does well to recall facts and to make them internationally aware. A word about the Balkans. There is also an Austrian core concern that the reform dynamics achieved so laboriously and after such bloody conflicts does not come to a political or economic end. Therefore, no artificial barriers, no new obstacles, but patient, consistent and reasonable further work on the pre-accession strategy. To the people in Austria and those beyond the borders: You know exactly what the EU's accession to our neighbours means. – I advise you to go She goes to the Lower Austrian national exhibition, which runs under the title “divided – separated – united” because there is impressive evidence of what transformation means in this new Europe. Where the border of the Warsaw Pact used to be, today is the Schengen border. We can work together, we can live together. – The only country among our neighbouring countries with which we do not yet have a Schengen arrangement is Liechtenstein. However, we also have a global responsibility – that is to be said at the end. Austrian development aid could not be increased, but it will be necessary, especially in the crisis, to pay attention to the weakest and weakest countries. I am in favour of special attention being paid to women in these countries, because women are not to be those who, as experience shows very often, are first under pressure in the crisis. This must not be done in our country or worldwide, ladies and gentlemen. In this direction, we should pay great attention. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9610	Mr Neubauer came to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9642	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Colleague Today, in the morning hours, Auer invited the opposition parties to participate in the further development of the budget of the country of Austria. – I cannot take this invitation very seriously, ladies and gentlemen, if I look forward to how parliamentaryism has been in this House in recent months. Parliamentaryism here in this House has come to a standstill, ladies and gentlemen, and the opposition parties in this House are gradually excluded from the process of political-democratic opinion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is really a political scandal when three democratically legitimate parties here in this House are permanently excluded from the idea of competition! The people of Austria have a right to the best ideas for them being decided here and not to be repeated – also by Mr Cap, who unfortunately is not in the high hall – only word breaks. [[Abg. Grosz: High Hall!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Mr Cap, I call on you to finally keep your promises, including the opposition parties! Come back to the democratic base, because it really can no longer continue, ladies and gentlemen, because this reminds me of bad times when the political parties in this country were first banned and then the Parliament was essentially dissolved, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP: Completely exaggerate!]] We don't want to experience these times anymore! But they are close to reintroducing this. Every organization – be it Global 2000, whether it be Amnesty International, be it the World Wildlife Fund or Greenpeace – seems to have more rights in our country than the opposition parties here in the House. These organisations are at least asked in the case of legislative drafts and the like – and if resistance is agitating, then they will react immediately. In the case of proposals here in the House, however, this is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. These organisations have more influence in this House than their own parties, which have been democratically elected here – and that is a shame, I can tell you! If you always delay applications from the opposition parties for five years, this is an exclusion from the opposition in this House – and before that you cannot close yourself! [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Grossmann.]] We have the remarkable case that a request by my colleague Haidlmayr from the Greens, who is not even in the House today, has been postponed for 13 years. This is a scandal as he stands in the book. And for that you must stand straight, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] I do not understand that the S & D party here in this House is a step-by-step supporter of such undemocratic development – and that of your own sad history, which you have to show. I really don't understand that you from the SPÖ are taking part in these undemocratic approaches – and I don't want to understand that either. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the President of the National Council has immeasurably joined this undemocratic development. For example, it gives house bans to unspoiled citizens of this country. This too is a scandal! The President forbids exhibitions of Romanian artists, icon exhibitions – she does and does what she wants in this House. That is no longer understandable! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: What does this have to do with the budget?- Oh, my God!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank all the employees of the House in this context. They alone keep this farm in the high house. If it were from the Presidential Administration, this company would have collapsed for a long time.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9748	Mr Klubobmann's deputy, Westenthaler, spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9772	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It cannot be that not even after half the budget debate there is no representative of the Ministry of Finance here. The Minister of Finance is not here, the Secretary of State is not here. I therefore request, according to the Rules of Procedure, the citation of the Minister for Finance and a vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9806	Mr Klubobmann of the ÖVP spoke. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9846	Slow, slow, no hurry! - No, the microphone doesn't hold. [[Call to the BZÖ: Mr President, the speech has expired!]] Mr President. High house! Usually...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9908	I may ask for attention very briefly! Mr Peter Westenthaler, I would like to justify his request following the statements on the Rules of Procedure of Mr Kopf on business regulations, because he said he was requesting a representative of the Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No! I said to the Minister of Finance!]] - That's what happened to me. We can take a look at the minutes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Minister of Finance!]] Perhaps he'll tell me who he'd like to quote here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I said, Minister of Finance!]] And now Mr. Klubobmann's head is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9964	Mr President, perhaps I should know before I say what he wants to quote exactly.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9994	Mr Klubobmann's head, if you have no word for business treatment, then I have to initiate the vote. - Please. – Mr Klubobmann’s head, please. [[Call the BZÖ: Vote! Vote!]] [[Abg. Head: I'm still talking?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10036	Mr President, although the governments behind me are so evocative – Mr President, the presence of members of the government is usually not necessary at first readings. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That is not true at all! The Minister of Finance is always there at the budget!]] But, of course, the Minister of Finance has been present all the time. By the way, five members of the government are currently on the government bank. The Federal Finance Act covers all chapters and all the departments, and I think that the Ministers and State Secretarys are available in sufficient numbers to comment on the questions and comments of Members. There have already been a number of ministers speaking after the Chancellor and the Minister of Finance, and I think that should be enough. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure!]] But, of course, the request for the vote will have to come because it is, of course, in conformity with the rules of business.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10081	According to § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, I interpret Mr Ing's request. Westenthaler in such a way that he would like to invite Mr Finanzminister, and would also bring this request to the vote. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I said that!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Please!]] Now, however, Mr Brosz, Mr Klubobmann's deputy to the Greens, has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10129	Mr President. After the Klubobmann Head's speech has led to the fact that the series are now much more closed, the question of the vote's starting point will not really be asked anyway. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is a first reading and not a request from Members. I therefore assume that the competent ministry must be represented on the government bank in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And I would ask the President to check whether this is the case at present. I do not believe that this is about the request, but I would like to know whether the place here is in accordance with business rules. I wouldn't assume that's the case.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10162	There is now no mention of a word. [[Call the SPÖ:Cap!]] – Mr Cap, the SPÖ’s Club, also speaks for business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10211	I am a little surprised at the whole discussion, because there are now five members of the government on the government bank. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is a financial template!]] – No, no, the budget will be transferred to the Council of Ministers as a whole. It is true that it will then be decided unanimously there and will then be entered here in Parliament. It's going to be discussed here. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] It is true that yesterday, in other words, at the beginning, we had a speech by the Minister of Finance, in which he commented on the entire budget. In the course of today's discussion, in the early days of the German Chancellor, the Vice-Cancellor and Finance Minister, the German Chancellor and then four other members of the government took the view. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a disregard...!]] What are we to do now, Mr Westenthaler? Should we have a trumpet group or orchestra marched up because of you, or what else do you need? I believe that this is indeed a more than representative presence on the government bank, and therefore I do not understand what this discussion should be. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] It's so obscene to me. I can't even understand this as opposition-political attire. They simply want to appear in the Minutes – because the relevance is not present to me. [[Call the SPÖ:Ostermayer!]] I therefore believe that this is more than enough. . I also welcome Mr Ostermayer's Secretary of State, who is now arriving, as planned. So what's this? Who else should be here? I think there's enough presence.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10321	It has also referred to the Clubobmann representative of the Freedom Party. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10346	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Kasperltheater is none of this because, of course, in such an important debate as today, it must be assumed that the Minister of Finance should be of great interest to listen to the speeches made by the mandates in order to determine whether his budget, which he has presented, is also approved. [[Abg. Grossruck: Where's the stretch?]] He said yesterday that every member of the government must be his own Finance Minister – which is obviously the case today – but I think Mr Westenthaler is quite right that the Finance Ministers should be present at such an important debate. That is why we will also support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10384	According to my interpretation of § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, of course, is the right to quote a particular Federal Minister to make a request here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Go? Really?]] In addition, it is only a right of the respective Minister and State Secretary to participate in the negotiations, in accordance with § 18 para. 1 – and not a duty. If a citation request is successful, i.e. if a majority is granted, then the relevant Minister of State has to be here. - That's how I interpret it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Really? We didn't know that!]] I am now voting on the request to quote Mr Finanzminister – everything else is a political consideration, I would say. If you would like to approach Mr Klubobmann's deputy Westenthaler's request, I would like to ask him for a sign by standing up. [[Call the BZÖ:count!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We would like to have exactly counted this!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is the same swimwear policy as the grass!]] – This is the minority. I don't need an enumeration, because I see with a clear eye that the majority is against it. We continue with the speeches on Agenda items 1 and 2. The next item is the speech by Mr Grosz. Set speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10483	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The representatives of SPÖ could well stay in the hall, because this is the federal financial law of this country, here it is about the future – that has been preached to us for the last 48 hours! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They're all going again!]] It is a special class cleanerry, it is an increase in democracy and this Parliament, that in a budget accompanying law that has been celebrated for 48 hours, which also bears that name and is being negotiated in the Budget Committee, the competent government member is not here! [[Intervocations at SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Ongoing calls at SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Abg. Big Truck: Watch out, heart attack!]] It is a piggy that this member of the government also has two State Secretarys, two highly paid State Secretarys, but there is no one here. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and ÖVP]] That testifies to your sense of responsibility. They call this republic your footpath; so you make politics. You can show this to this House again today. Shame! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] This budget itself does not even deserve to be discussed. [[Abg. Großruck: Now hold back once...!]] The mountain cried for months – and was born a little mouse. But only this comparison is clean, because reality looks different! What the absent vice chancellor and finance minister, who probably just opened a “agricultural buffet” or deguised Lower Austrian wine, delivered to this house instead of working here during this crisis period, is a horror budget and installed the future of young people in our country. That's sad fact! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This Minister of Finance and Vice-Presidents has done something, in view of which Bruno Kreisky himself would be jealous, because this state debt is unique in the history of the Second Republic – and that under a finance minister from a party who has always preached the economy and the zero deficit. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Your budget approach is just as perverse as the approach of the bank package, namely : [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Incredible! Incredible!]] To fight debt with debt, bank package, loans that have gone into the air, with new loans, and now to combat an economic crisis, such as it has never been, with further debt and to burden future generations. I can only say one thing to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, which you still have on the government bank. The time-limits are as follows: 3 billion € would have been saved in the administrative sector alone. [[Call to the ÖVP: Such nonsense!]] [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Incredible!]] It wouldn't disturb any Austrians, no Austrians, if we could have succeeded in the administration of 3 billion euros. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein]] [[Abg. Head: How many employees in the public service are these?]] Another €3 billion – because you jump around the area with billions and millions like temple hoppers – is another €3 billion by combining social security institutions, where you could finally eliminate your red-black plum. Then people would better survive this crisis over the next two years. But what are you doing? – 100 million €, 1.4 billion Schilling, for representation costs, PR expenses, advertising costs. I can't find a budget. They have saved everywhere: You have let the Minister of Education slip out, and you will also allow the Minister of Justice to be cleaned out like a Christian tree. But that we finally save where it makes sense, namely in the administration, you have not accomplished that. No, you owe future generations, you owe my generation, and you owe a lot of young people who are looking at this sad spectacle from the visitor's gallery today, where a finance minister no longer shoulders his responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10674	The Vice-President of the Green Brosz spoke on the Rules of Procedure. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10706	Mr President. I quote from the opinion of the National Council's Rules of Procedure; comment by Dr. Zögernitz, who should be familiar to the House. In footnote 12 to § 18 para. 3 the following point is made, which makes it clear that, although there is no obligation in the Rules of Procedure, there is no obligation but what the handling is. I quote: The presence of the competent member of the Federal Government in the negotiations of the National Council (see also § 90) even if this does not explicitly require the National Council, is in line with the principles of parliamentary democracy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He has to be there!]] It goes on to say: It is therefore in accordance with parliamentary practice that members of the Federal Government are present not only in negotiations in the National Council on government documents for which they are responsible but also in negotiations on own-initiative applications concerning matters of their competence. – End of the quote. Mr Cap, explaining why we requested that the competent member of the government be present. In this context, I would like once again, after you have the opportunity to read it, according to § 18 para. 3 apply for the recovery of the competent member of the government, in this case of the Federal Minister of State Pröll. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now vote right now, please!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Take a vote or we'll do it all day!]] It is therefore not possible to apply for the withdrawal of State Secretarys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10796	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I may ask for a little less excitement! Klubobmann Cap has now also made a statement. And it is also parliamentary practice that a round of these word messages is allowed for business treatment. – Mr Klubobmann Cap, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10823	I would now like to draw attention to another aspect, apart from the fact that I am actually expecting a call for an order for the previous speaker, because talking about pig-and-saury here is actually unheard of. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We can submit the application ten more times!]] I think it is unacceptable to want to develop such a tumult and chao strategy here now, in order to get mad in the media, or with this Grosz finally has a audience for his speech. That seems to have been the background. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] - Yeah, but that's how it was. I would like to add something: With State Secretary Ostermayer there is also now also a direct representative of the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who?]] In this way, this page of this discussion is... Ostermayer. [[Call BZÖ:Who?]] Listen, please! – No, then you are not up-to-date with the information. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Eastermayer is...!]] There is also a representative here, so that this representation is now also secured, and I think that is enough. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But we want the Minister of Finance!]] If you want someone else, do it. You have an appointment with that one, but I think this has been resolved.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10955	Ladies and gentlemen! I understand, of course, the legitimate wish of many Members that the Federal Minister for Finance is present at the first reading of the Federal Finance Act. However, I also understand the legitimate wish that the Federal Minister for Finance should also take a break during a 10 to 14 hour debate. [[Call BZÖ:State Secretary! He's got two State Secretarys!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You are not allowed to interpret this!]] Of course it is also possible... [[Abg. Grosz: What kind of president are you?- Oh, my God!]] [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (to the Bureau) They deliver you anyway, you don't have to cut yourself!]] Of course, I will now vote on the request. I'm asking for a little more peace. It is, of course, also subject to political appreciation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have nothing to appreciate! The President has no appreciation!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Prinzhorn was an excellent president!]] With regard to the call for order, which has now been requested, I note that it concerns the respective mood and context, whether or not a call for order is issued. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If permanent calls and laughters come from the Members' banks during Mr Grosz's speech, at a very high level of noise, I would ask whether this is acceptable to the dignity of the House. I'm sure I'm going to give up a call for order now, because no one has been personally mentioned either. But I ask everyone to be moderate! I am now voting on this request in accordance with § 18 para. 3 off. All those who come closer to this request I am looking for a sign by standing up. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Stay calm, we'll put him again! That's what we can do now! Where are the State Secretarys?]] [[Subsequent calls for Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If the Minister of Finance needed a break because he was too weak, we would at least like the State Secretary!]] [[Call: It's getting less and less]] – The request does not have the majority. There are 80 to 52 votes. The request has been accepted. [[Abg. Scheibner: To the Rules of Procedure.]] Mr Scheibner spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11163	Mr President. I don't want to go now. Their apologies assess why a minister who has two State Secretary cannot be represented here. Mr President, you are President of the National Council – and not representatives of the Federal Government. That would be true of all appreciation here. But you did not respond to Mr Brosz's request either. He has made the request for a resumption, but regardless of that, Mr President, he has asked you, on a business basis, to ensure that the Ministry of Finance is represented here by a member of the government, either by the Minister or by the State Secretary. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: session break!]] I would ask you to ensure that the Rules of Procedure are implemented accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11197	In my opinion, Mr Scheibner, I believe that my approach will make the Rules of Procedure clear. ................................................................................................................................................................ Regardless of that, I have already caused you to ask when Mr. Federal Minister will come. I'll tell you on the next occasion when this will be the case. The next item in the debate is Mrs Mag. Schwentner. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11230	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Unfortunately, the two to three gentlemen we would expect are missing, and it is really the question of whether this corresponds to the dignity of the House if we hold a budget debate every two years, but neither the Minister of Finance nor one of his two State Secretarys is present. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] And it is the question whether there must be a zero wage round for us parliamentarians and parliamentarians or whether there should not be a zero wage for the State Secretary and the Minister for Finance. Another story that has never been mentioned today and which was worth only twice to the Minister of Finance yesterday was the term ‘gener budgeting’. I know that's an incentive for some. It is now an objective set out in the Constitution. In other words, today we have often heard the stand-by set in the budget: Budget is a policy cast in figures. However, the budget is also an injustice and inequality between men and women in figures. Gender budgeting is therefore a necessary and very important measure to counter it and promote equality between men and women. Only, it is a matter of how serious equality is implemented through the design of the budget. In connection with the word “gender”, many obviously still have a reflective state of fear. I don't know what fears, loss fears and phobias appear there, I'm not a psychologist. It is not possible to look at the souls of men and women who are afraid of gender, but it is now possible to look at the resorts and budgets, where Gender budgeting is unfortunately only implemented in homeopathic doses. This looks rather sad and is quite sad to look at. What does the award of an honorary mark by the Federal Chancellor have to do with Gender Budgeting? What do the classic funding programmes such as FIT, FEMtech and w-fFORTE from the Ministry of Science have to do with gender budgeting? – It is clear that women benefit. These are the classic women's funding plans, which actually have nothing to do with the gender budgeting projects. What should be a matter of course is that women are awarded honorary titles and certificates by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, which is described as a gender budgeting measure, and this is extremely distressing and also a bit sad. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Moreover, with the recognition that this does not have budgetary relevance, that is, it does not even have relevance to the budget of the respective resort. This is just an example of many for the depreciated handling of the gender budgeting objective in the individual departments. A certain effort cannot, however, be agreed with the resorts, it is better than in recent years. But what is generally said about measures, It is more likely to be the case with operational support measures. We know it: Measures for the agreement of work and family, lip commitment to better ascent opportunities, a few honor marks and professional titles, and one is satisfied with what happens in the next two years regarding gender budgeting. That by now the 40 percent quota in the public sector Service is still not achieved, although this is set out in the Federal Equal Treatment Act, is highly worrying. In this context, it should also be noted that the reduction of many posts in the public service, which will affect 2 800 jobs, will affect women, and this is highly irresponsible in times like these; in the context of economic and tax reform anyway, because in all these matters, women do not really get to move at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time, the women's budget, which has been mentioned today, is slightly increased, but it is still a little far-reaching budget, that is, a fleetingly small one. 0.13 Promille of the overall budget is dedicated to women, i.e. 2,4 € per woman has the Minister of Women at their disposal. What can be done with it or implemented, that says the number in itself. In other words, this is the call for all the other departments to take gender budgeting very seriously and to take measures in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11306	I inform the National Council that, according to my information, a competent member of the Ministry of Finance will appear in 5 minutes. Mr Spindelegger spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11330	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to take the first reading of the budget on the occasion of taking a position on the budget of my house, which, like the budgets of all the other departments, is marked by one thing: realism, which the Minister of Finance now has to show if he wants to present to the House budgets for the next two years. This means that the wishes of the staff of my house – and I myself, of course, have been included in this series – are a little backward in the tasks and working methods of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We too must take note as an administration and especially in my house that we have a contribution to make in this situation and that the administration and also my home must exercise restrictions. The crucial thing for me is that the two figures available for 2009, €435 million and for 2010 €441 million in budget resources, enable what we need. And what we absolutely need is for us to be able to fulfil our core tasks, namely, to represent our interests worldwide – as I believe, we also have the special task of achieving our commitment to the United Nations Security Council with the human resources – to do all the consular tasks on the second – I can remind you that there are 600 000 consular cases per year that are to be done by the Austrian representative authorities – and, on the other hand, to care for our foreign-Austrian Austrians accordingly. We can ensure that if we also take a corresponding savings course in the resort. And I can say at this point that in my place of business at the Structure is saved, but not to the employees. This is important to me because I know I have many excellent employees in my department who are trying to work well for Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would therefore also like to express a concrete opinion on how we want to achieve the potential for savings. First, we will reduce the budget for the international conferences by about 25 percent, second, we will delay a lot in real estate management. There will also have to be a postponement in the case of urgently needed work on the buildings there and there. And thirdly, we will make much more use of the fact that our employees will participate in the events and conferences on site and we will travel less from the headquarters. But that will not be enough. We will also have to save from the representation authorities. I will make a proposal in the next few weeks, where we will apply various measures. On the one hand, we will check whether we need such an authority where we understandably have fewer representation tasks. Secondly, we will connect more closely with other countries in order to maintain a guarantee for our Austrian citizens. And thirdly, where it is necessary and where the economic future leads us, we will also reflect on the reopening of messages. I will therefore make a great effort to put an appropriate approach on the table as quickly as possible. Finally, I should like to mention one thing because it is also my heart: the budget for development cooperation. Yes, we have decided in the Federal Government over two years ago that, if possible, we will provide 0.51 percent of GDP in development co-operation funds in 2010. This is not possible because of this crisis. And I don't keep it behind the mountain either, that we won't reach it a year later. In the crisis, we have to focus on the tasks that are now taking place domestically. But we will not lose sight of the objectives, and we will leave the budget for this and next year, at least as far as operational expenditure in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, to the same extent. We will therefore save elsewhere and not in development cooperation. I think this is important because aid for self-help as a principle of our development cooperation and the efforts to create structures working towards stability in these countries are important, and we will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11398	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11419	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Let me say one thing at the first reading of the budget, that is, the general debate. Mr Neubauer! If we are talking about democracy, I would like to point out that this is the basis for the work of this House, which has been democratically decided. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Not that we take something into our mouth, which is very sharp at the border! If you criticise Mr Cap or the President of the European Parliament, I would like to point out that in the last few weeks in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - which has not been the case for many years - we have taken a number of new decisions with 1. ==References== [[Abg. May. Stadler: Twice!]] We will meet again to bring about further improvements. If you are here pretending that it would be undemocratic to postpone a request, I ask myself: Have you all forgotten how parliamentarianism takes place? Now we're back, Mr. Westenthaler, aren't we? That's the same thing. [[Call the BZÖ: “It”!]] Now I'm telling you what that means. It is not always clear whether blue or BZÖ was in the government. If today the figures of the plans have been referred to by 99 in the executive, I would like to remind you: You've been rationalizing more than 2,500! – At least remember that you were there, and don’t turn around the spear, because the people in our home country, the colleagues, but also the parliamentarians know it. Only so that this is put on the table again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We don't forget the stories, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. New builder: We don't!]] Bravo, I like it! And I believe that it will be an interesting discussion if we now deal with the individual budget chapters, Mr Neubauer. Now is a general debate. I understand a lot anyway. Just stick to the truth. It doesn't get any better if you give something of yourself again and again, which is simply not true. In such a difficult time, everyone speaks only of the debt, but requires more money for each budget chapter. We know all of that. I believe that this federal government has prepared a good budget, a budget for the people who need our solidarity aid. We must work together with the individual budget chapters and try to decide a proper budget in the interests of our people of our Republic in the interests of the economy here at the end of May. I'll invite you to this way. If we do it for our home country, we do it for the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11491	Next, Mr. Ing. School speaking. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11513	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Mr Grosz, first of all I would like to give you a call for order, because you deserve it, but you have not yet received it. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] It is now also in the Minutes that you are entitled to the order of business. I'm sorry, but the Off. It's over. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a budget today at a very difficult time and talking about a crisis whose cause has already been seen several times in the financial world. We know, however, that the trigger for the crisis was not only lazy loans, but also that there was another trigger for the crisis, and this trigger was the energy price development and the large amount of money that has gone from the energy-consuming countries, from the oil and natural gas-consuming countries in those countries that have promoted these raw materials. We know that over $2,000 billion of purchasing power has been withdrawn from the countries that consume oil and fed to the other countries, and this money has done a great deal of damage to financial markets. We know today that the oil industry has a second dangerous side. Not only climate change is dangerous, but also the impact on the financial world when oil prices rise again. And there will be another scarf! That is why, if we want to get out of this crisis, we must really interpret the signs. It will therefore be important that we set the course now, and this budget will do so, but not only through the budget, but also through legal measures in the cooperation of the federal, state and citizens. We know very well that the forecasts made by the oil industry are rare. In the case of Ruttenstorfer, even the forecasts he makes about MOL and various shares do not vote because, as regrettably the news can be found, the Director-General has expressed the opinion that the OMC will hold the shares for a long time. After two days, it was not like that again; unfortunately, however, his shares were said to have experienced an increase in value. That's the oil industry. And we really need to be very careful about who we trust. I think we can have real confidence in Austria where value added in the regions is being created and independence is created by decentralisation. Especially now, with the new legal possibilities, we are strengthening all initiatives to provide regional energy, whether photovoltaic or solar, whether it be wind energy, or biomass. We know we're going to be much better if the Ecostrom Act finally enters into force. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many people have learned from this crisis. They can explain the world great, but in reality everyone knows, sure is only what is nearby, sure is what I understand, sure is something then, in the investment as well as in the energy supply, when I know myself. Most people have reached a simple and correct conclusion: Better the solar system on the roof, the insulation on the wall than the shares in the basement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also believe, and I am quite sure that the energy and energy of the people in Austria will lead us out of this crisis. It will only be the people and their hard work that will deal with this crisis, no programs, not the computers. It will be good if we encourage all those who want to be diligent, who want to earn something, to do it. It would be good if those who go the right way would have the opportunity to earn something like those who live on the oil, live from natural gas and from there extract their coal. Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to make this request for agriculture. At this difficult time when the markets are filled differently, some are overcrowded, it is also difficult for farmers to obtain income. It is important, however, to strengthen regional agriculture, because we also know that the supply from the country is correct and important and better than any offer from somewhere. That is why it is also important to develop the agricultural budget, to continue the path and to give farmers the opportunity to participate in crisis management. We have a problem, that is open, that is not yet debated with this budget, I hope it will still be solved, that is the question of the disease of the blue tongue. This is not a political statement, but it is a disease which unfortunately is very expensive in the fight. I hope that this question can be resolved soon too, because that is also important. The export of breeding cattle depends on that. – Thank you for the attention! Good for the farmers!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11606	In this case I will also refrain from a call for order, which is really hard to do with it. Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11630	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr. State Secretary Lopatka, nice to see you again; probably now you have been sent back after lunch with Uncle Erwin and General Konrad! Ladies and gentlemen! That all this is not fun, you can read all of that in the APA. According to APA, Mr. Konrad was already in 2006 – exactly on 4. April 2006, you can write this – meaning: Sepp Pröll I have already laughed at myself, and that has all been right – says Konrad – but then Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel came and brought Pröll – nephew of the Conrad friend and Lower Austrian head of state Erwin Pröll – to the Federal Government as Minister for Agriculture. It would be difficult to get Pröll to Raiffeisen, Konrad said. So, don't always evaluate this, that's to read for everyone, even you have an APA access! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Read it, ladies and gentlemen! Now, in fact, the story continues: They call for new elections, then comes the National Council election campaign, and in the middle of this election campaign comes the world economic crisis, ladies and gentlemen. And in view of the outcome of the election – it is possible to do so You remember as well as we do – you wanted to cool off the ÖVP anything but with the SPÖ. But when Mr. Konrad discovered that something had to happen because he needed money for the very busy Raiffeisen group, suddenly this coalition stood overnight – and at the same time a bank package. But that's what you lied about the opposition. It has been said that in order to secure the deposits of small savers, we need this bank package – which is waiting until today – to be liable for interbank transactions and as a capital injection in case of serious problems. All these bankers have said they would not use it – and one after another has now arrived! [[Abg. Grill: That's call damage!]] We do not know at all how this money is used, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – You can still be so upset by the ÖVP. ==References== November – to read again in the APA; an APA message from Mr Treichl: “If Mr Pröll’s Minister of Finance is hot, he could also be supported from the circle of bank managers.” Otherwise one would have liked to have Wilfried Stadler, the long-standing investment board. - That's the way it works here. That is to say, Mr Konrad has very well decided on this government. It is the Raiffeisenbank, which is very deep in Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen, and Ukraine is in front of the state bankruptcy, you know that very well! This is also the reason why international reviews for Austria are very bad. You shouldn't always do it like it's drawn from any spheres. This can be read in the APA. [[Abg. Grill: You shouldn't always lie!]] Mr Grillitsch, look inside, I've given you the data! Write it with you, read it so that you can also notice that what we are saying here is actually in line with the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But also in the SPÖ it seems to be going around right now. In the SPÖ we just got the Los-von-Faymann movement. The SPÖ government team is still sitting in the back of the government bank and believes that this Grasser-Meinl course is the right course to take while the country representatives run away. In the morning, “NEWS” says the head of the Styria, Voves, of course, he continues to demand a return at Kreisky’s time. You want a rich tax, now must be the Kreisky time. - Quote. So there's a lot going on inside the SPÖ. That is, what this government is doing is no longer even carried by its own officials. It's really just made for the super-rich. The Grassers, Mensdorff-Pouillys, Meinls, all those who support you are carried by you, by your government team, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the real madness. You should rather really think about the people in this country, the families who do not get any support from this budget, the seniors, the youth and the patients, because the health budget is really under any criticism, ladies and gentlemen! Although the Minister of Finance is speaking out loud of a fund that is paid €100 million, it will only receive the funds if they implement any structural measures. 100 million € – while the banks have been pushed in 15 billion € – may get the local health phone when it goes to the ÖVP and when the ÖVP plans prevail. This has already been said by the new head of the main association. Then the health insurance companies may be able to get money. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a government work à la ÖVP, which we absolutely reject! This has nothing to do with crisis management at all, but you will drive us into the crisis with this budget much, much, much deeper.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11710	Next, Mr Linder. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11732	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! If we were to work from tourism with the same zeal and the same joy as some members of the government, but unfortunately also some colleagues in Parliament, then we would not have been able to write successful numbers in winter, nor would we look calmly in the summer. By God, we have good numbers; winter has been successful. I was also confirmed yesterday by Gabriel Obernosterer that we are still crisis-resistant in tourism. There are no cancellations with us yet, and there are no serious intrusions. But if I think a little bit about it, I think about whether I should recommend that my colleagues continue to work with this joy and zeal when we have to experience that we are being punished by the government in the budget. The government programme announced that top tourism promotion will be increased by 20 percent – but, ladies and gentlemen, we did not see anything of this in yesterday's draft. On the contrary: The Austrian Hotel and Tourism Bank’s funding actions – which were still 35.8 million in 2007 – were reduced to 25.8 million for the years 2009 and 2010, which is 10 million less. For Alpine infrastructure, there were still 2.25 million in 2007, and unfortunately there will only be more than 1.85 million for the years 2009 and 2010. The Austrian advertising gets €4 million. – There has been no increase in the budget for the Austrian advertising for ten years. Even if we accept only 2% of money withdrawal, ladies and gentlemen, we have a loss of 20 percent, 5 million. A one-time increase of 4 million is facing an annual loss of real income of 5 million for Austria's advertising! We demand an increase in the money for Austria's advertising to € 10 million annually. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we have no lobby, just like the car industry or the banks have one. On the contrary! Instead of helping us, instead of supporting us, we are still being punished by tourism. In order to calm down the teachers, the window days were deleted. – Everyone who works in tourism knows how important the window days are for us to extend the season! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Exactly!]] Dear colleagues, tourists in the ÖVP, I still understand that you are not able to stand up to the fact that the ÖVP is still behind tourism, but I no longer understand that you are not on the table, that you are making this happen to you, that we have to pay for the teachers. I'm asking you to: See that the ÖVP is back behind tourism, then we will be able to look even more calmly into the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11780	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11802	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear Seers! I too have had the expectation to discuss the environmental budget together with Mr Finanzminister and Mr Umweltminister, but I have also had the hope, as an environmental speaker, that the fact that a former Minister for the Environment now presides over the budget will also have a positive impact on the environment. Unfortunately, I was disappointed at the beginning of yesterday’s budget speech in the setting of priorities, because the words “environment”, “climate change” or “energy” do not even occur. [[Abg. Großruck: Thermal rehabilitation is already decided!]] - I'll be right there. The Minister of the Environment is pleased that his budget has been increased, and at first glance this looks like it – but only at first sight. If you look more closely, it looks completely different. The climate fund is now €75 million, but in conjunction with the BMVIT, 150 million were already available for this purpose in 2008, but they were not budgeted. There is an increase in environmental promotion, but also the € 68 million for thermal renovation. I would also have a specific question because you are always talking about 100 million: We have not found the remaining 32 million – that is, the rest of 68 to 100 million € – in the budget yet. The annual access framework for environmental promotion projects is not even sufficient to deal with and implement projects that we already have, which could already be implemented and effective now. Unfortunately, this is a huge opportunity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is particularly acute in emissions. The funds for the JI/CDM programme for the purchase of emission rights from abroad are increased, but at the same time resources are also provided for free CO2 allocations to new industrial plants and gas power plants in Austria. The taxpayer and the taxpayer are now being twice asked to register, namely for the purchase of emission rights from abroad and on the other hand for the free CO2 emission rights for industry. If you draw the result, then the taxpayer, the taxpayer, will be asked to cash out for a third time, for the penalty payments we will receive, because we cannot meet our Kyoto targets thanks to your policy. [[Call the ÖVP: That's right!]] Instead of this triple burden, you should use the Austrian tax resources so that we can achieve our climate change targets here so that we can create environmental protection in Austria so that we can make people in Austria independent of expensive energy imports and that we can create jobs in Austria in particular. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition, you are punishing those persons and organisations who are committed to these goals, namely the environmental and animal protection NGOs, which you exclude from the deductibility of donations. I am right for the Minister of Finance when he says in his budget speech that he sees no alternative to fundamental reforms. – I see no alternative either, but unfortunately I do not see any fundamental reforms in this budget either. The environmental budget in particular is visionless and has no room for innovation, for the energy plan that we have already discussed. It does not help if the representatives of the government parties now list all renewable energy sources and use them again and again in Sunday's speeches, we also need the necessary resources to do so. They must be included in the budget so that we can also implement these necessary measures. We need € 1 billion for the renovation and not a € 100 million leak, and we need investments in environmental protection, climate protection, renewable energy and jobs in Austria. Unfortunately, your budget is not a roadmap for the future, but only a continuation of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11860	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann speaking. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11882	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The budget chapter externally is also under the shadow of the current economic crisis – the more important it is to make the available to be used with the utmost consideration. Especially in the field of foreign policy, it is often a matter of symbolism, of achievements of international solidarity, of showing that our country wants to take responsibility for global development and also wants to form part of it. The most effective way of dealing with the current crisis in peace is to coordinate the international community of states, where Austria can and should contribute not only in an ideal way to know-how and mediation, but also financially. Those who lose their financial obligations permanently will also lose credibility and influence in the world. It is therefore a positive signal that the budgetary targets for compulsory expenditure on international organisations are increased. This includes the contribution to the United Nations budget, including – and this must be said – if contributions to individual sub-organisations are reduced. The contributions to UN peacekeeping missions also make great sense, because it is a matter of providing local emergency hotspots to end human suffering and not to even make refugee flows to Europe arise. In this context, however, it is a great advertising drop that stagnate development cooperation resources, although we have agreed to a gradual increase in the Government Convention. The drama of the economic situation is still – and I emphasize this – a justification for this budget shift, though very weak. My colleague, Mr Bayr, will address this issue even more closely. The efficiency bid certainly concerns to a large extent the central management and representation authorities that need to meet increased service and security requirements. That, of course, costs something. This is why it is particularly important to achieve synergies through cooperation with other European countries. It's all the more expensive, we know. The revenue continues to decline as a result of a declining economy. All those responsible for the resort complain of this dictatorship of empty cash registers. That is why it is a promising sign that our coalition partner, yesterday's joint resolution, also recognised the urgent need for a structural tax reform. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11930	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Ikrath with a set speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11951	Mr President. Estimated representatives of the government! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make a comment on Mr Gradauer, who calls himself Budgetary Spokesman, but this also applies to colleagues such as Ollinger and other members of the opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: It's him, he's a budget speaker!]] It is already adventurous and actually a huge chuzpe, in the same breath, as Mr Grabauer has done, to demand more optimism, more encouragement for people, and at the same time, in a denunciatorial way, to declare the Austrian credit economy, which is concerned in Eastern Europe and which has not led to “toxic securities”, Mr Oellinger, this credit economy, which has done the right thing, into a disaster zone. [[Abg. Oils: Na, na, na, denunciatorial, that's true!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: I spoke about the Caribbean! Didn't you look after me?]] That's insanity, it's irrational, and that's adventurous! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: They're unscrupulous! I didn't talk about Eastern Europe!]] Furthermore, I find it quite embarrassing that when a credit institution is correctly informed – something that we repeatedly demand in terms of consumer protection and submit to the law – it is covered with ridicule and humor and at the same time re-denominated. This is a policy that we reject, and you will not only win us one millimeter to go there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Furthermore: Would it have been better for you that the First Bank would have placed swine in ad or, as has already been done, taught an opinion that the claim is orally secure? In connection with this, I would like to make a point because the Minister for Justice is here today. I recognise and thank her that she has now also brought fresh wind into those surveys that have the content of inconsistencies on the financial markets, and that she is using the resources that are available and possible there with great consequence. For this we should strengthen her back here in the high house, she will need it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the address of the SPÖ – many are not there who follow the budget debate closely; the budget speaker Krainer is not here anyway. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: We will continue to say it!]] [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP: Don't eat, Mr. Colleague?- Oh, my God!]] Now the colleague Grastaur is coming at least – is also of great interest. One exists on the presence of the minister, but one is actually more outside than in the hall; also remarkable consequence of an opposition. I would like to dedicate to the honourable Members a quote on property tax. I'm asking you to use this as an incentive to think. From the Stenographical Protocol, 10. November 1993: “The always criticised second stage of tax reform – I say that to those who always believe that something is understood by practice; I can only repeat it – brings a substantial strengthening of the economic location Austria. Anyone who sees things as they really are welcomes this second stage of tax reform. The abolition of capital and commercial tax brings improvements in earnings and causes a greater proportion of financial and real capital to flow into companies.” And that is exactly what we need now under the sign of the crisis. Do you know who said that? Can you remember? – Your colleague Heindl, an appointed practitioner, a committed social democrat. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Good man!]] Please listen to your colleagues. I could also quote Lacina now, but don't do that because otherwise the time runs out. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Androsch!]] Who are the rich in this land? Are those who earn more than € 51 000 a year, who already carry 36 percent of the tax burden? Let's go ahead and shave them? – Certainly not with us! We need the service providers in Austria, and we want to pay them off, but no further burden. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Or, in the direction of the Greens, are those more than 3,000 foundations, some of which are community-oriented foundations, which are always turned under the carpet? Do we want to keep taxing them? Well, just the right thing at the right time! Do we want the capital to flow? These foundations secure approximately 450 000 jobs. We tax them high, capital will be deducted and jobs will be lost. Yes, this is the policy of the Greens! [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] That may be the policy of the opposition as well. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, no, no!]] With us, however, this policy will not take place because we want to secure jobs and create more jobs in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You can't even distinguish assets from assets!]] A final indication of the capital increase tax. – This is also a phantom, which is taken out every time you think you have to raise money again somewhere. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] Do you know what that would have cost the Fiscus, we would have introduced it last year? Then we would now have a reduction of about € 850 million. This should be the policy that helps this country to cope with the crisis? - Certainly not! We're going the other way, and I hope you'll still understand and join us.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12181	Next, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12202	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I can say that I was able to explore the secret why Minister Pröll went: It is a serious infringement of the protocol by the EIA, namely that the Members who have declared themselves to be Minister Pröll have failed to carry out the suggested knee bend properly. Mr Grillitsch was the last one, and then Mr Pröll was able to do it, and he left. So in the sense: The fact that I am treated less by my group is no longer the case. - That's the whole explanation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is, of course, a great adoration wave, which has dwindled down on the poor minister and which seeks to cover the observation content of unbiased observers. Also interesting is the editorial by Schellhorn in today’s “Press”, from which you should give a few quotes for the best: Toward the end, Schellhorn writes: ‘This country is not run by free Members of the National Council. Especially of influential national leaders, trade unionists and representatives of interests, in which membership is still based on compulsion at the beginning of the third millennium.” In addition, as is the case with the powerful trade unions, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is behind me, has not had to have a particularly enjoyable experience. We already know the rest of the story. A quote for the budget and for the recovery of state finances is also given: “While in our neighbouring country, for example, Hungary’s low officials’ salaries are cut, we finance a completely bloated state apparatus and chat in TV discussions on social justice and the enormous potential for savings in the administrative field. Although we know very well that no cent of it can ever be realized. We are used to living over our conditions, and no longer able to change them. This is probably worse than any external economic crisis." Unfortunately, there is a lot of truth in that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it will be shown whether the great announcements of savings potential for the recovery of state finances will be realized. specific in the field of administrative reform, because three ways – and only three ways! – there is a reorganisation of state finances: Number one: Inflation. - We don't want to. Number two: Tax increases. - We don't want to. Number three: Expenditure cuts. - We have to. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am curious whether the Federal Government, in the form of the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor, will make a lot of progress that we are willing to take along. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12288	Next, Mrs. Mag. Bandion-Ortner. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are at least going to interrupt the discussion of the agenda at 15 a.m. to carry out the short debates that have been put in place. Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12315	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the field of justice, too, one has to adapt to the economic situation, but one has to remain on the ground of reality. We have also seen a budget increase of 11.7 percent in the field of justice. There are 11 011 employees in the judicial system. Of this, 169 will have to be saved by 2013. That's about 4 promills a year. We will do this together, with united forces, and I trust in the Austrian judicial staff's well-known, very high level of commitment. I also rely on the discharge package I have developed and already decided on. No one can tell me that it is not a relief if judges can increasingly make use of shortened judgments. No one can tell me that it is no relief when administrative procedures are simplified when bureaucracy is eliminated. No one can tell me that it is not a discharge if a criminal judge does not have to sit in court proceedings at least once a week. It is also a discharge if only 3 000 and not 13 000 arrest decisions are to be taken each year in court. And, of course, it is also a relief for civil judges if they no longer have to deal with the costs of lawyers to that extent. There are discharges, and they will get hold of; I am sure of them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you do not need to worry about the future of Austrian justice. The rule of law, legal protection and also the protection of victims will continue to be observed in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12372	Next, Mr Huber. Set speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12393	Dear ladies on the government bank! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Dear viewers at the visitor gallery! High house! I was very surprised by the APA report issued by Mr Berlakovich right after the budget was announced. He writes that he is pleased that he has €34 million more at his disposal, and that in the time, dear colleague Grillitsch, in which dairy farmers – massively caused by the ÖVP agricultural policy of the past 40 years – are fighting for existence. In Tyrol we have a payout price of 28 cents since last week. Although they are celebrating large investments, they can be paid expensively by the farmers who “dahingrotchen” at the minimum of existence. So agricultural policy cannot work! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now you have the opportunity to take up our BZÖ proposals by reworking. Please be careful! If Mr. Berlakovich takes an administrative reform seriously and takes control of the AMA, which is more papal than the Pope, with thousands of officials controlling the peasants, then hundreds of millions of euros remain. With these he can immediately support a voluntary ban on milk supplies, and this health check, this 1% more, does not have to enter into force, in respect of which Mr Pröll, Minister, went to Brussels in November and unfortunately, has fallen by accident or accident. [[Abg. Hoefinger: This is a milkmaid bill!]] That's not a milkmaid bill! [[Abg. Hoefinger: This is a milkmaid bill, clearly!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] This administrative reform money can finally be used to implement an agricultural diesel reform, freeing the agricultural diesel – as in very, very many countries in the EU – from the mineral oil tax. These are things that farmers need, and not to be turned on by you as a bitter. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Previously, Mr Spindelegger has just announced that the EZA agreements with the EU cannot be fulfilled. Then I would also urgently draw your attention to this: Don't pay EURATOM millions either! This is also very, very valuable money that we need for the budget. [[Abg. Hornek: Everyone knows that better than you do!]] Then the farmers will finally become entrepreneurs. Let us support them that they can also make photovoltaic systems that they can equip their stable roofs with photovoltaic systems – you know how much space that would be! – as is common in Germany and northern Italy. [[Abg. Gahr: That's where you know northern Italy!]] - Yes, I know you! You just need to look at: The northern Italian farmer receives 10 percent VAT for his product; and for everything he buys, he has to pay 4 percent. With us he gets 12 percent, and for every means he buys, he has to pay 20 percent thanks to your good agricultural policy. Thank you at the ÖVP. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We can create thousands of jobs if we guarantee the livelihoods of farmers, Zig thousands, and we can also contribute to debt relief in the overall budget. Please finish your short work and take up my ideas and suggestions! You will see, then the farmers are satisfied and perhaps no longer run into crowds of it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12503	Mr Walser spoke next. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12524	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government on the government bank! High house! The reactions to the budget were devastating. [[Abg. Krainer: But only in the club session of the Greens!]] Madam Minister, this unfortunately also concerns the field of education. According to Minister of Finance Pröll, the second major focus is education. If you look at the budget in detail, there is not much left of this promise. In this context, the token will have to pay at least medium and short term for the pupils and the parents. In the long term, it will be Austria's economic location. The budget, as it stands, is a counter-reform in figures, especially from the ÖAAB, which has been preventing us from coming to a modern education policy in this country for decades now. [[Call the ÖVP:Well go!]] I can remind you of the reign of Gehrer. I know you don't like that very much. That was 11 years down, that was even 11 years back! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: You know that you are wronging Elisabeth Gehrer!]] Mrs. Schmied, if you look at your numbers, then the details are a little skeptical. For example, on your homepage, it says that schools in free movement – Montessori, Waldorf and so on – should receive €5 million more in two years. That would be a small but important step in the right direction. That would be quite welcome. If you look at the corresponding budget items, you'll be surprised, however, because the figure is €670,000 less than last year, and it would be 1.34 million less for two years. Now I hope that this additional money is hidden under the title ‘Other non-profit institutions’, as there is an increase of 4.4 million. In total, however, this still totaled up to a maximum of € 3 million in two years. So be careful is stated, and you can be sure that we will also read the small print and that we will also take a close look at those areas in the sub-items, which unfortunately are not binding. Of promised millions, however, little is seen. I do not want to deal with your tricks, or the tricks of the Minister of Finance, regarding BIG rents and rescheduled investments, which make the following very clear: There's less money there. At some point we'll have to pay for this. I can only hope that the money you can't spend now will really be added to the budget. The fact is that students in Austria are currently doing very, very bad achievements. Only 20 percent of the readers are supported by reading specialists in Austria. On the European average, it is 44 percent – more than twice as much. I could go on like this now. More than 50 percent of the risk students in Austria do not receive any additional funding at all, and so on. This is the product of decades of black and red budget policy, black and red education policy, a policy that has promoted the rich in our country, which has given only children from rich families a chance. We hope – and have hoped – that there will be a turn. Unfortunately, I cannot recognize them in this budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This morning, the Minister of Finance promised a further €1,000 for each child. People in this country will demand this €1,000. There are first protests, there are demonstrations already announced this week. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] I must say that is understandable given what is going on in this country. This is the result of the policy of this black and red-black government!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12612	Next, Mrs Mag. Muttons. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12633	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The budget clearly reflects the economic crisis, which we have already noted today. It is all the more gratifying that it has nevertheless succeeded in increasing the art and culture budget. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a sign of the high importance of art and culture in Austria. Therefore, the budget also allows the implementation of measures contained in the government programme. Thus, the increase in the donation for the federal museums by € 8.5 million is certainly a step towards the implementation of the free entry for children and young people. But not only the great cultural institutions, but also the cultural initiatives will receive more resources. Of course, it could be more and more, but this time they get € 1 million more to preserve and promote cultural diversity. I am particularly pleased because the cultural initiatives are something like the salt in the soup if you want to. Of course, the increased funding for young people and international activities is also particularly welcome. The latter is all the more so, as, unfortunately, the savings fund has been set up in the foreign ministry. It is gratifying that the Ministry's focus in the field of art and cultural communication, namely cultural participation, is also reflected in the budget. Children and young people should come into contact with art and culture as early as possible and have the opportunity to learn with and through art. For example, the means for cultural contact have been increased. CultureContact has finally started the p[ART] programme, which aims to establish a long-term cooperation between schools and cultural institutions. As these figures show, the federal government takes its cultural, cultural and cultural responsibility very seriously, especially in times of the economic crisis, while the state really needs to stand behind its art and culture. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank you, Mrs Minister. You have successfully defended the budget for art and culture against possible savings attempts, and it could even be increased. This is, I believe, quite remarkable in the face of the economic crisis and of scarce financial scope. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12686	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. [[15:00:34]] Short debate on the response to the question 1034/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12707	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 1034/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Königshofer to open the debate as an applicant for the request. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12743	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Since the autumn of last year, the fog has slowly begun to light up both the eastern and European banks. With “East”, I mean the former eastern block, all the countries that are located east of the Iron Curtain, except the former GDR, which is now part of the Federal Republic of Germany, but including the former Yugoslavia and Albania. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this area, European banks have been in favour of a kind of gold tomb in recent years, especially the Austrian banks. They have seen a chance to work out stable intake situations for years and decades. They also deserved very well at the expense of customers in both areas. In Austria, if you have a refinancing of around 2 percent, i.e. if you purchase the money by 2 to 3 percent, and this money in the East as a euro credit, which still counts as a foreign currency credit and is a problem, can continue to reach 20 to 25 percent, the banks thus had a profit margin of 1,000 percent and more. With this, you can only earn a golden nose, but this has also led to the greed to want to have more and more, and in this area you have become ever thinner and thinner. In the meantime, we have learned how large the East Gagement, loans, leasing financing, investments and participations of the Austrian banks are. Originally, one has learned that it is 210 to 220 billion euros. Then it is assumed that Bank Austria is counted as Italy's risk due to its connection to UniCredit in Italy. In the end, however, it would be the case that in a disaster of this bank, the Austrian savers and customers would first come into the handcushion and only the Italian owners in the second line. In total, Austrian banks have built up an obligation or commitment of €300 billion and write. This is the size of the Austrian gross domestic product. In comparison, German banks have around €200 billion outside the East, which is about 7 to 8 percent of the German domestic product. In this scale, commitment becomes a danger and a risk to the entire economy. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this year the Austrian but also international media recognized this. For example, the “Press ” wrote on 20 May. January 2009 – I may quote –: ‘FMA’ – i.e. financial market supervision – is “warning of Eastern Europe’s crisis. According to a study by the private bank Sal. Oppenheim has created a new problem for local banks in the region. The currencies of many Eastern countries are on a massive scale.” An example: the Ukrainian Grivna in relation to the euro or Swiss franc. ==References== There is an APA report from our Federal Party Minister, who has already dealt with this matter: “Laut FPÖ-Bundesobmann HC Strache is a dangerous development. If these loans are indisputable, there could be a financial disaster, up to the final collapse of the domestic banking sector." In the meantime, however, something else has happened in the world: As you know, in 2007, the so-called subprime crisis broke out in the USA, which has spread on the East Coast of the USA into a veritable banking and financial crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Not only has it been flooded, but there has also been a crisis in the real economy. I just call the two tags “General Motors” and “Chrysler”. This crisis has united into a veritable world economic crisis and has also passed to Europe without EU protection, to Western Europe, to Central Europe and to Eastern Europe. In this way, politics in Austria was also awakened. The Minister of Finance – he is not here yet, but his representation – then, like his predecessor Hannes Androsch, has taken appropriate measures with his agricultural understanding of financial policy, as I would like to emphasize. The Minister of Finance has made a trip to Eastern Europe, which in turn has thrown back Austria's credit quality. ==References====External links== year(s) “Austria is calling for help for the banks in the East. At European level, the government wants to support itself and push for rescue shields in the neighbouring countries." It is proposed to create a 100 billion pot for the economy of Eastern Europe. ==References====External links== March 2009: ‘Higher risk than in Italy. Market fears Pleite Österreichs. Investors have been caring for a loss of payments in Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain for weeks. But more and more, because of the crisis in Eastern Europe, another country is coming to the attention of investors: Austria’. ==References====External links== March of this year: ‘Banks in Austria Highly Exposed in Eastern Europe’. The last summit was the report by the Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman, who warned that this huge eastern risk of the Austrian banks could become a credit risk to the Republic of Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] As a result, certain personalities in Austria – above all the Minister of Finance, with his agricultural understanding of the financial policy – were alarming and questioning what criteria would be necessary for a Nobel Prize winner. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What do you mean by that?]] [[Abg. Grill: What do you mean?]] I will give you an answer, Mr Grillitsch. Prepotence is not on our side, we have a problem here. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Explain!]] I'll explain. Listen to me, I'll tell you! After the Nobel Prize-winner Krugman – which one may quote here, that is not prepotent! – and after the criticism of Krugman, the next cross-shoot came from New York. The US rating agency Fitch predicts a break in the equity of leading banks up to zero. - That was the last one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Financier's question came to these East credits, which we are now talking about. I'm just quoting that. Question point 1: “How high are the engagements?” – The core of the statement: “The Federal Ministry of Finance does not provide data on Austrian banks’ commitment to Eastern Europe in the final form.” Question 2: “How much is the risk of failure estimated?” – Mr Bundesminister’s reply: “Depending on the assumptions here, the assessments of experts, including different probability of failure for different periods of time, do not allow for a risk qualification either.” Question 3: “How high are the risk arrangements in the respective institutions’ balance sheets?” – Answer: “The Federal Ministry of Finance does not have any original information on the risk precautions of each institution.” The answer to this question continues: There's zero statement! That is why I could address to the Minister of Finance or to the Secretary of State the question of how, with such knowledge or ignorance and such a poor state of information, he could at all criticize a Nobel Prize-winner and challenge this argumentative. – I see nothing here, and for this reason we reject this answer. We request that it be rejected as it may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12837	I announce that the request for non-knowing of the request is also available in writing. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Lopatka is now speaking. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12889	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also start in principle, after Mr Königshofer has also spoken for a very long time in principle. First: It was true that Austria was above average engaged in the Eastern European countries. Thank God there was a turn to better 20 years ago. Think of fundamental and freedom rights and the economic development that has taken place in these countries, which has also given us the opportunity to do so. It is good that our banks and Austrian companies have benefited more from these opportunities than neighbouring countries. – I would like to say that at the beginning of the day. So it was right to get involved here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Not only have we been involved in this area, but the other countries represented in the euro area have also seen and benefited from appropriate opportunities. I can recall that in recent years alone, one third of euro area exports have gone to this region of Eastern Europe. In the context of investment, a clear focus has been placed on direct investment in this region in recent years at €320 billion. Yes, I do! Austria was on the front line here. Austria has done a lot here with the banks, but not only with the banks in recent years. I am going into detail now because you have seen the questions as not adequately answered. – First point: How much has been done by our banks in this area? How high are the outsides? What about the deposits in the individual countries? What is the overall situation? It's wrong to throw these states into a pot! Just as not all countries represented in the euro area can be grouped into a category, there are great differences here too. When we look at the ten countries in which Austria's greatest commitment is given, we see that six states are in the European Union. Two states have our currency, the euro. There, of course, the situation is different from in former CIS countries, or in countries not members of the European Union. You've already cut it: Not we have direct access here, but, of course, the financial market supervision has such information, and also the Austrian National Bank. The Austrian National Bank – this is not a secret – has recently listed this. Austrian banks have a share of more than €200 billion. You're right. And if I still charge the UniCredit, that is, Bank Austria, and the Hypo Group Alpe Adria, then I'll get an even higher amount. Austria has a share of 19 percent just before Germany with 17, Italy with 16 and France with 11 percent. But now let's see how the volume of these 200 billion euros is divided! – You can see that 55 percent are in countries that have been in the European Union since 2004. Romania and Bulgaria, joined in 2007, add another 17 percent. So more than 70 percent of the volume is found in countries that are with us in the European Union. This is a big difference to those 14 percent of the CIS countries and 14 percent of the South-East European countries that are not in the European Union. To say a little more clearly: Where are we most committed from the sums? – We are most committed in the Czech Republic. There we have 42 billion. The Czech Republic is economically and completely different from the Ukraine you mentioned. After that Romania with 30 billion, Hungary with 25 billion and Slovakia with 22 billion. – You see, I am still speaking exclusively of EU Member States, and Slovakia is even a state with euro-currency. Then Croatia with 16, Russia with 15, Poland with 11 and Ukraine with 10, then Slovenia with 7 and Serbia with 5 billion, with which we are exposed. For example, I intend the Czech Republic, where we are most committed. I can tell you that there are deposits that are higher than the money made available by us for the market. You have to see that and say it very clearly so that you don't fear too much. Austria was successful here. In the Czech Republic, we are represented by 36 percent on this market, with the Croats I very much hope that they will soon be in the European Union, even with 66 percent, and in other countries you mentioned, such as Ukraine, it is only 13 percent and only 4 percent in Russia. Again on the first question. Of course, we know relatively well about the National Bank, how strong our banks are and what the situation is in the individual states. Now at risk: How to estimate this risk? – Of course, the easiest thing to do is always to rely on results. One result is, for example, that we needed 3 percent depreciation in these countries last year, which is about 5 percent in this year. In this context, the international financial institutions closely monitoring the market say that depreciation will remain in a manageable area in the future. The Governor of the Austrian National Bank also calls the risk to banks in Eastern Europe – literally – “handling”. The crucial point, therefore, is how we behave in this situation: Are we leaving these states alone? Do we allow us to have a two-part Europe again? Or do we benefit from the advantage that Austria has that we were there first, that we are now also staying there in the crisis, to be the first again when the upturn comes? – I say: It is right to stay there, also in the sense of European thought! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, I can tell you very clearly here that your sad assessment does not correspond to the facts. It is crucial how the ratings are actually. And there Austria has a triple A! Look You are also looking at the development of the spreads! You have criticized the trip by Vice Chancellor and Minister of Finance Pröll. – This trip was right! In the meantime, the international financial institutions have recognized the need to act, and they have acted differently, because, as I have already mentioned, the states are completely different to be assessed. At any rate, Europe has responded, and it is also good that within the international financial institutions Austria is most represented in this regard in the Eastern European Bank and the European Bank, because historically and geographically this development in this area can best fulfil the task in the international area of Austria. We have reorganised financial market supervision in 2007 and, together with the National Bank, we are well placed here. But from you still comes the additional requirement after an audit by the Court of Auditors. You know that the Court of Auditors has very clearly defined auditing powers; this is explained by the Federal Constitution. In the case of private legal entities without federal participation, these audits are not possible. To sum up, I should like to say once again that you have made a request: Yes, the commitment of the Austrian banks in this area was and is above average. I assume that we have benefited from this not only in the past – with “we” I now mean the Austrian economy. All the studies carried out show that at least 150 000 jobs have been directly secured in us by the fact that this commitment was available and that the banks have also followed businesses. I assume that these states – I have just broken it down; because more than half are already in the European Union and the others also need this perspective of the European Union – now at this stage and still need the involvement of our banks. Last year, unlike American banks, which were well-carried – because you mentioned famous credit rating agencies here – our banks went down the stream, even in contrast to Swiss banks – you know the balance sheets that have been presented here – can still write beautiful profits. Yes, it is now the phase where this will not be possible, but I assume that with the bank package we have tied up, we have laid the basis that we will be able to make profits there in the future, ensuring jobs with us and Austria will continue to use this unique opportunity that has arisen after 1989.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13004	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes, according to Rules of Procedure. First of all, Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13029	Madam President. First of all, the general situation. If the Nobel Prize-winner Krugman, who is an absolute capacity in economics without detachment, calls Ireland, Iceland and Austria in a breath, then one must also point to the differences. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Or question the Nobel Prize!]] – No, I do not question a Nobel Prize, but I simply see what these three countries may have in common, and above all what they differ. The difference is that Ireland and Iceland have become active in markets that were foreign to them in a way that does not apply to Austria. And it is always only about Vienna, about the Vienna banks, but the Hypo Alpe-Adria, the Volksbanken do not have their headquarters in Vienna. This house has been built at a time when all these countries, which you see as a former eastern block, have formed a common country of which Vienna was the capital. The fact that, when these borders disappear, Vienna or Austria will again play a dominant role in this region is not a coincidence either. In the last 500 years, this has been the case for 400 years, then it has not been the case for 70 years, and now it is the case again. This is quite different when a market has grown organically and there are very strong cultural, social, ethnic ties, and there are in this case – in contrast to Iceland and also Ireland. Also the exposure, i.e. the danger of Iceland – and the Icelandics already have a proper problem – is the tenfold of the theoretical problem that Austria could have. So here we're talking about quite different dimensions. Furthermore, I must say honestly, we also have a very good instrument in the context of financial policy, namely the informal debates of the speakers of the political groups. We had a debate on this very subject, in which representatives of the FMA, where OeNB Governor Novotny were here, who reported in detail what the situation is, according to the parameters the stress tests are designed, how different countries can be assessed, how experience of the Asian crisis uses credit default risks here, depending on country and region, what the outcome of these bills is and when it becomes a problem for Austria. The result was relatively clear: If there are one or two countries that come in extreme currency turbulence and under extreme depreciation conditions, then it is a problem, but not yet a major problem for Austria. We have a problem when the whole of Eastern Europe no longer exists, but that is clear, because there is not only a problem for the banks, but there is a problem for the whole economy. We know that more than half of GDP is exported and a significant part is exported to the Central and Eastern European countries. If the economy there breaks down that we have a problem, it is clear anyway. That is why there are also these informal debates. Perhaps you could also work a little on the flow of communication within your group, so that this information can also come to the other interested Members who are not involved in these debates. It must be said, yes, that the question could have been answered in a slightly more detailed way, but that is what the Secretary of State has now done. However, it must also be said that the request could have been more clearly defined. Mr Königshofer has now defined what he understands under the former eastern block, et cetera. This can, of course, be clarified in the request from the beginning and more clearly defined how you have now done it orally. Then it might have been easier for the ministry to answer more precisely, or perhaps it would be more difficult for the ministry to respond inaccurately; the more you see it. In summary, I think, you can say: The fact that Austria, Austria's banks, insurances, but not just them, but a lot of economic areas, play a leading role in this region, is not a great miracle because of its historical and cultural proximity and is also nothing bad for itself. One point has to be mentioned, and that is something that the financial market supervision and also the OeNB have been pointing out for years: There is already this tricky conclusion from large banks: “Too big to fail” – once I have a certain size, I have to be saved if I feel bad. But there is not only this “too big to fail”, but there is also the border where one says, “too big to rescue”. That is to say, one must also question the growth of individual banks – and since I mean not only Austria now, but that is a European problem – you have to consider how large a bank can become at all, because if it is so big that you have to save it, it must also be small enough that you can even save it. Iceland, Ireland are examples where this size has at least been exceeded.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13075	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13097	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the economy there is a chance and a chance Zyo a pair of terms. Just as our whole life does not take place without risk, I do not know an entrepreneurial opportunity without risk. I have to say one thing: The opening of the East, the disappearance of the Iron Curtain, the enlargement of the European Union, which was actually a reunification of Europe, was a huge opportunity for us little Austria, and our entrepreneurs, our businesses and their employees have rightly recognized this opportunity earlier than the other countries. This applies both to industry and to the credit industry, industry and tourism. We can be proud that our entrepreneurs were really pioneers here and recognized the opportunities of this growth region at an early stage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Königshofer, I have to tell you honestly: I am incredibly glad that our banks have financed investments in a growth region through credit financing and have not, just as foreign banks do, also viewed UBS, for example in Switzerland, in Madoff papers or in Lehman papers. I am grateful that our companies have gone this way, which is a success story for our country. I can only mention a few numbers. In the last ten years, our exports to Central and Eastern Europe have increased from €9 billion to €27 billion. The statement of reasons is as follows: A billion exports are 8,000 jobs. This means that only Austria's export volume in Central and Eastern Europe means more than 200 000 jobs, which are thus secured in Austria. – A success story of our country, and our banks have accompanied it. Our banks have accompanied businesses to Central and Eastern Europe and have thereby reduced their risk. So a great development! The increase in exports in these last ten years alone means about 140 000 jobs from 9 to 27 billion. We are also among the top three in most of these countries as far as investment is concerned. We are investor number 1 in Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria. We are among the top 3 in Hungary, in the Czech Republic, in Slovakia. Ladies and gentlemen! We would not have had these growth rates in recent years if our businesses and their employees had not recognized these opportunities in good time. But no chance without risk. Of course, Central and Eastern Europe has now also been caught by this global crisis. It would have been a miracle if this region could have been excluded from the global crisis. Of course, that was not possible. And it was again, it was Austria, our Minister of Finance, who pointed out very early that the European Union, that the World Bank must contribute to the stabilisation of these regions. At the time, some have smiled and said that the Pröll is going to Central and Eastern Europe. Today we are so far away that the Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Development Bank, the European Union with billions of money in this region are strengthening its backs and thus contributing to the stabilisation of this region. To Mr Krugman, I believe you don't have to say much anymore. The head of the International Monetary Fund Dominique Strauss-Kahn, a Frenchman, was Minister of Finance in France for many years, has a close relationship with Austria and has rightly pointed out that a Nobel Prizewinner sometimes does not take the time to look at data, facts and details. I can already imagine when I take Eastern Europe as a homogeneous, uniform block and say, the small Austria and the great Eastern Europe, then I may come to this conclusion. But I think the Secretary of State has done a very good job. You can't compare the Czech Republic with Ukraine today, you can't compare Slovenia with Poland, that's all different. In particular, 85 percent of these loans are practically covered by local deposits. It's a security. I am very glad that our banks and our businesses have explained that they will stay on site. They are considered to be reliable partners in this region. They will then again be the main beneficiaries, if this region will also be caught by a recovery of the economy. On the question, Mr Königshofer, I must say one thing; Mr Krainer has already mentioned it. I wonder a little, the Ministry of Finance has no direct data access. That is why we – Mr Kogler will confirm it – had an informal debate in December, for which we invited Ewald Novotny as well as the FMA Board of Directors. They informed us directly from first hand about the condition. The Seppi Bucher was also there. First-hand information – something better can't be desired! You can have a little self-confidence as a parliamentarian and say: We invite the central bank, we invite the FMA. We don't wait to see if we get data from a third hand. So if internal communication in FPÖ does not work, please improve it. I have a firm intention to make such informal debates in the future, because I believe that Members have the right to be informed firsthand, especially in such sensitive matters.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13187	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13208	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary and Mr Krainer and Mr Colleague stupidly, this is basically a very different matter. There are now two options: Either you – or the competent ministry – do not want to answer written questions or even oral questions, or you deliberately tell us the untruth. That's what it's all about. This is an answer to a question that is not yet a week old, where all the requests are in it, we don't know, we don't have the information yet, we still have to ask – so it was answered, that was on the 17th. April, that's not a week ago. And today the Secretary of State stands here, has fixed and ready-made Taferln and refers to numbers he suddenly knows. Now he has either had two super dreams the last nights, or it has been whispered to him, or he has become a huge failure. But one thing is clear: If you treat a request in this way – no matter what opposition party that concerns all opposition parties – then you have to let the question happen if you don't know anything, don't know how much money is outside, which liability can be beaten, you first have to get the information: Why are you even able to decide here a bank liability package of 100 billion € if you know nothing? This is one - I would have used Mr Grosz's expression very soon; I will not do it - indebtedness to the opposition to bring us so behind the light at that time, in order to give us an agreement to a framework of liability. 100 billion € to move if you don't know anything! That's what I blame you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have a similar example. You can remember that at the beginning of December we had in the Financial Committee the issue of increasing the liability framework for the export industry. At that time, this liability framework should be increased by €5 billion – it was suddenly increased by €10 billion overnight. At that time, Mr Kogler and Mr Grastaur asked a question in committee. Mr Kogler wanted to know whether the increase in the export credit liability framework was a sort of “increasing the banking package to cover risks in the East”. Mr Matznetter replied: The increase in the liability framework is not an additional risk capital, but an insurance for the export industry. – And in the same breath, an increase of €5 billion to €10 billion was decided. We did not agree with this from the FPÖ because the information was too little detailed. See, in another request to a certain Austrian bank – I do not take a name into my mouth now because it will probably be about several Austrian banks – the question is: Does it correspond to the fact that the bank mentioned above has already taken advantage of the State's liability before the bank package?, answers the following: ‘In the context of the Austrian export promotion procedure, all investors have the possibility to refinance (...). This possibility has also been used by this Austrian bank “in the course of its expansion to Central and Eastern Europe. The total volume of liability assumed is around €4 billion.” This is the procedure you maintain in relation to the opposition. They ask us to cooperate constructively, to bring us in – and you do not even stick to actually answering requests in writing or in writing. They lie to us length times width!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13273	Mr Themessl, we have agreed that we do not use the lie in this room! - Good. [[Abg. Themessl: Then I say: the untruth!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13304	Madam President. High house! I was here several months ago and pointed out that the Austrian Federal Government is buying the cat in the bag with this bank rescue package. At the time, I pointed out that it would normally be necessary if we were to take so much money into our hands here as to examine the risk that we would understand the books, that we would look at exactly where the problems lie. That's what I asked for at the time. And what happened since then? Is there this insight? Has the government ensured that no bodies are in the basement? – I think we can give the answer ourselves: That's not the case. In this response, all serious – it has already been mentioned today – is claimed that banking is a dynamic process. That is why nothing can be said here, because there are always backflows and new engagements. You have to imagine that! A bank lives on the fact that it grants loans, and of course it also happens that loans are repaid. If it were really that you can't publish numbers, then no one bank on this planet could ever publish a number, because this process is very dynamic. We do not want to know exactly what exactly is outstanding on a deadline, but we just want to get a rough overview. I have a nice graphic here, which shows a lot more than the Secretary of State has told us. [[The speaker keeps a sheet in height with a bar chart depicted on it.]] That's the East Engagement. The lower bar here, this is Austria. [[Abg. Grandruck: Let's be glad! Let's be glad we've got so good connections!]] We have 70 percent of GDP in the East. Germany, France, Portugal and Italy are all below 10 percent. That's the number that should be frightening for us. Why have we taken a so-called clumps risk here by transferring 70 percent of our GDP to the East? Even if we look at point 2, as regards the risks of failure, there are different opinions from experts, different opinions, and because of that, of course, there is nothing to say about the risk. – So if there are already different numbers, I want to know them! And if you don't know her, I can tell her: There is the credit rating agency Fitch – someone has already said this today – and this one has predicted a risk of failure, depending on the institute and the scenario, between 3.8 and 10.3 percent. [[Abg. Grossruck: Did it also predict the economic crisis?]] So that would be if you assumed the worst case, up to €20 billion that we would have to raise there. If that's not a risk, I don't know! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Months ago, the IMF pointed out that there is a huge risk here. Mr Krugman then dared simply repeat what everyone knows: that Austria is at risk because Austria is in adventurous How 70 percent of its GDP has been transferred to the East – money that we do not have at all! [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's not true at all!]] You have to imagine this: We have transferred the huge debt mountain, 70 percent of GDP, once again to the East. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's not true!]] We have now, as it were, doubled our debts by granting loans to the East with a maximum cover of 10%. Mr. Stumbling! Not as you said: You said 85 percent were covered. – It's up to 10 percent! [[The opposition of Mr Dr. Stummvoll and Mr Mag. Molterer.]] 10 percent are covered with savings deposits, the rest is pure air business. You know that too! If only 10 percent of East credits get beating, then Good night! Then we really have a substantial problem. And if you look at the currencies in the east, you know that these 10 percent will probably be even higher. [[Abg. Großruck: That's why it's important that everyone is at the euro!]] The Minister of Finance said yesterday in his budget speech that a decent merchant would never buy unaudited goods, and then not in huge quantities. But what do we do with the bank rescue package? – We buy shares here and have no idea where the risk lies and where the trip is going. Therefore, Minister of Finance: If you want to be a decent merchant, then check the risks, look at them very carefully! And if you continue to deny the facts, you are not a worthy Minister of Finance, and you will definitely receive the invoice at the election. I just hope it won't be too late for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13417	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13438	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Almost all previous speakers may not have wrongfully explained the fundamental question of the so-called East commitment here. I do not want to hide before I go into the content of the question and answer to the question. For me and, I believe, for the Green Group too, I should like to say that, in principle, we regard this as quite different from the Liberal Group in terms of access. The so-called involvement of banks outside of the country is particularly important if one is to invest in the so-called real economy, to lend loans or, all the more preferable, to carry out so-called investment activities, which, due to the mis-evaluation of the famous credit rating agencies and due to other mismanagements of the system, also lead to problems on the asset side of the balance sheets. In one case, it's just so-called toxic papers. Perhaps we will not be able, as I say, to address this problem, to take up the Bad Bank idea, at least assigned to the respective 'polluters' banks, i.e. distributed. I say: To the extent that our information is sufficient – we are still talking about the problem of the Info Deficit – so to speak, the attempt of real-economy investment is always better than the other variant. I can't believe anything bad about the fact that there is this link with Eastern Europe. On the contrary! The point to look at – and then I’m already done with this short entry – would be the question: Is this in a reasonable and just exchange relationship with these countries? Is there not a certain financial imperialism or anything in this form? – But if the market forces work half way here, which takes place halfway under state supervision and under semi-equivalent market partners, then normally not much can go wrong! Another problem is that, even with the help of Austrian banks, certain business practices in Eastern Europe are not pushed back, but are intensified and in the worst case even major economic crime is reimported to Austria, as one of the results in the Banking Committee has shown. We think that's a problem. - But that's enough for the history. In principle positive – starting from this attitude, of course we already have the problem of looking at: What are the risks there, and what can be done about it? That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, it was nevertheless necessary to agree to this so-called banking package, and for this very reason – I do not know your motive – our group has done so too: because we cannot see, if, for whatever reason, system banks are completely in the throes. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] There was also the intermediate performance of the opposition inside – usefully. Don't always be so funny around! But – and now it comes, and we are getting closer to the answer to the question –: Based on what we made up there, it was negotiated that the Regulation specifies the whole law as it belongs. I have rarely seen a regulation falling within the scope of the law. I looked at that again. We did not negotiate so badly from the opposition side – Professor Van der Bellen, who now smiles a little bit, was there. We have accommodated one thing or another – this has been mentioned more often, that is why we also stand for it – and it is actually given to the law-making officer – chancellor by the way, Finance Minister – the possibility to provide more here. It didn't happen at all! The much-troubled EU has been that thanks to God, the conditions have been a bit tightened – still not finally according to our taste. So, what's the stand? – And with that now at the heart of this answer to the question. Interbank strengthening law and the Financial Market Stability Act clearly include the Ministry of Finance's competence statement – just before I looked at it again – already in Article 2, which is the much more relevant in terms of participation capital. I think that the other thing is in order anyway, with regard to Article 1 with regard to the acceptance of liability. But there too, the Minister of Finance has possibilities, but also specifically in Article 2. He is responsible for the conclusion of the contract, he is responsible for controlling et cetera. Now I ask you, Mr Molterer – you are so pleased to nod; you may also be allowed to do so, because you have set this up: Is this the answer to what this your ministry has to know about for 1.7 billion € participation capital? – Yes, now you're trading in the ÖVP, because that's what you're looking at, isn't it? – If this is to be the knowledge, the €1.7 billion Participation capital in the first, based on raiffeisen, then I say good night. If that's the story, good night! - We don't want to spread business secrets here. You know that we are always very serious in the committees. That is where the parliamentary word applies. That is why I say, in conclusion, that from very other motives perhaps, but at least because of much too scarce reply and either due to real stupidness or self-dum jobs, this answer is insufficient. Both are not acceptable or very difficult to handle, and I therefore recommend that we accept the request for non-knowledge.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13512	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Dr Königshofer, ladies and gentlemen, not to take note of the reply to the question. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of their lack of knowledge to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[15:48:54]] Short debate on the response to the question 842/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13554	We are now entering the brief debate on the question of the German Chancellor's reply to the order number 842/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker speaking for reasons of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Zinggl, as an applicant for the request to open the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13590	Madam President. Dear Secretary of State! There are two present – very good! – instead of the Federal Chancellor. Despite the economic crisis and the budgetary problems we have, I do not think we should forget the Constitution, or rather the respect of the Constitution. It is about the bilingual town boards and the question of why they still cannot be properly set up. I was standing here a year ago. There was also a discussion of an answer to a question. I had asked the Federal Chancellor – at the time it was still Alfred Gusenbauer – why he does not issue new regulations to set up the town boards, as this would be his duty, since the old 2006 regulation by Chancellor Schüssel is not constitutional. He then wrote to me that his efforts to achieve a consensus on this issue failed, that ÖVP and head of state Haider did not agree and so on, and that the Federal Government in particular would not be responsible for setting up the panels. [[Abg. Dolinschek: The SPÖ did not agree in the house at the time!]] – But I didn’t ask that at all. I wanted to know, namely, the responsibility of the Federal Government as to why there is no new topography regulation. That is why the question answered a year ago. The Chancellor told me the same again and gave me no answer to the crucial question, because he clearly – perhaps even deliberately – misunderstood the question and withdrew from the answer in this way. There are two areas: the one area where the government needs to create a topography regulation through the main committee, and the other, that the state government or the authorities in the state government have to set up these tables. Both have to work. However, if the Topography Regulation is not adopted in accordance with the Constitution, there are two parties who are guilty of non-statement. [[Abg. Petzner: One!]] My question has only been raised in connection with the Federal Government, namely the new Topography Regulation. Now, after the change of government took place, I also asked the new Chancellor Faymann the same question and asked him to answer the questions in detail, as I asked them, individually, because I was afraid that there would be another block in which it said: We can't do anything for it, the Carinthians are to blame – or somehow in this way – we can't put up tables there and so on. That's exactly what happened: The Federal Chancellor did not answer the questions individually, and he, perhaps deliberately, withdrew from this question. What can be derived from it? – From this, one can conclude that there is also a responsibility for the federal government in respect of complying with the Constitution. [[Abg. Petzner: Only the federal government!]] And I don't think that's a portable state. It is now in fact three years since the German Chancellor Schüssel adopted a regulation which applies more or less than non-constitutional. I pointed out a year ago that there will now be numerous complaints, then findings of the Constitutional Court, which will cost the taxpayers, the taxpayers huge amounts of money. That is exactly what happened, and that will continue to happen. It will be possible, by local authority, by municipality, by local authority, by means of an appropriate procedure to ensure that constitutional information is provided, indicating that there is no proper action. [[Abg. Dolinschek: The European Court of Justice has decided that the minority must be counted!]] So it happened, and so it will continue to happen. However, the Federal Government has the responsibility for this. It must now act against the main committee and adopt a new regulation. I would ask you, Mr State Secretary, to tell me quite specifically: Is this coming or isn't that coming? – This is completely independent of a People’s Group Law! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Whether it ever comes to this People's Group Law – we hope! –, is a completely different story. First of all, however, it is necessary to ensure that this process is respected. And I think that it is a very bad example for others who might consider not to comply with the Constitution to do so. Once again, because you may otherwise misunderstand my request – and your interpretation of my question is completely wrong in the answer to the question –: The production of a constitutional condition requires two parts. I'm asking: Will you contribute to your part, namely the regulation of local boards that redefines the Topography Regulation, or will you maintain the non-constitutional state? - That would be negligent. I'm asking for an answer this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13676	Mr Ostermayer spoke on a point of view. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13697	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to withdraw from the question. [[Abg. Petzner: But you don't know yourself! I'm going to take it!]] The government has also dealt with this issue in the coalition negotiations and has made a regulation or an agreement to that effect. Nevertheless, it must first be made clear – and this has also been communicated in the reply made by the Federal Chancellor – that the findings of the Constitutional Court on the one hand show that a rallying of these findings has to take place – but it has not been done for some time – and that on the other hand, the establishment of the bilingual local boards according to the road traffic regulations is a national matter, and on the basis of the business classification it is a responsibility of the head of state. [[Abg. Petzner: This is incorrect, Mr State Secretary! That's not true! That's wrong! They're subjugated to Kärnten Rechtsbruch! Watch out for a little!]] In addition to this, or in addition to these arrangements, the Intergovernmental Agreement has provided for constitutional assurance of the system for the implementation of local map knowledge in the broadest possible consensus with the ethnic groups on the basis of the previous proposals. You know, there have been several proposals. One of these proposals was also referred to in the German Chancellor's reply to the question, a proposal in which there was also consensus with the groups, but not sufficient consensus so that it can be implemented as a constitutional provision. What have we done now? – In the sense of this, we have tried to achieve the broadest possible consensus, because I believe or because we are convinced that consensus must be sought precisely on such a question, and not discouragement, as has happened relatively often on this issue. It does not bring us any further if the Constitutional Court is insulted or, as has been done in the past, the President of the Constitutional Court is insulted in a very insolent way. I do not even find it particularly elegant if you sit here now and dare to laugh about it. But it's like that. [[Abg. Petzner: If you knew what the current Federal President said about the Constitutional Court!]] Our way is different. Our way is not that of the sowing of discord, but of the search for consensus. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: The SPÖ has prevented a solution in 2006!]] Therefore, in the Federal Government yesterday, under the budget accompanying law, a novel to the People's Group Act was decided, allowing it to promote additional projects. And there is a project, that is to say, “rethinking card. ” There is a consensus between the Central Association of the Carinthian Slovenians and the Carinthian Home Office, and the aim of this consensus or project is to install dialogue groups in the towns and see that the conflicts that exist in the towns are resolved as far as possible. And that is precisely why, and because we believe that consensus is the right way to solve this problem, we have proposed to change the People's Group Law in this budget accompanying law, to increase funding there. And I hope that there is also a consensus and a majority in this House. We believe that the way of agreement is a more common way of achieving an agreement. We believe that the solution of these problems and this long-term issue will also be found in Carinthia. And as a Burgenlander, I say: I hope then that is possible there, which in Burgenland could be solved many, many years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13799	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes each. Mr Wittmann is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13823	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! As regards Mr Zinggl's question, it should first be noted that we have an existing 2006 Topography Regulation. That means that this is valid. It has been noted by a knowledge of the Constitutional Court that in the 11 towns you mentioned you should set up bilingual town boards. [[Abg. Bucher: In the statement that is in there!]] Of course, you have to know the Constitution a little bit and cannot represent any half-truths and half-jurist views. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Please go!]] In the light of the Constitutional Court, it is stated that in this case, the highest decision-making authority is required to adopt a regulation. That is to say, it has also come to the adoption of a regulation, albeit late. That again means that we have a legal right to do so, and that means that the Kärntner state captain is in the illegal area, and that in turn means that he commits a breach of law as much as any other citizen in that state. Although there are no execution measures available to the Constitutional Court to implement this – unfortunately; there is not – but there is clearly a breach of justice by the head of state of Carinthia. [[Abg. Bucher: Who is the legislator in Austria?]] [[Abg. Petzner: Do you know what you're saying? That's a terrible thing! Take it back!]] I believe that the Secretary of State has outlined the only possible way here: It's just consensus. It's not going to happen to anyone, it's just consensus. The consensus is, of course, a little difficult, Mr Petzner, if I look at your statements or Mr Dörfler's statements. The last statement by Mr. Dörfler on the subject, dated 19 February, was made by Mr. Dörfler. January 2009: But there will be no agreement with me for town boards. – That means, in reality, there is simply no consensus. Therefore, one cannot address the question to the Federal Chancellor if anyone does not want to. But there would be a possibility: According to Article 142, the only legal possibility that exists to implement this would be to make a kind of ministerial loan – that is, in that case not so – according to Article 142. That would be the only way to force Mr. Landes Captain to do so. There is no majority for that. This can only be done by the land day, and for that there is no majority in the land day. Therefore, the Federal Government cannot legally intervene here. She can't get through! But if I look at your legal understanding in Carinthia, I must say that I already have a bit of a problem with the assessment of how seriously you take the Constitution. [[Abg. Booker: You should ask yourself why you lost so much last time!]] The rule of law is one, and good people feel the other. And I think I only have a healthy people's feeling. – That’s what Dörfler says of himself! This man is defended to the Constitution, not to the people's feelings. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Don't feel like it!]] Not on any people's feelings that are born somewhere at the innkeeper's desk, but he's committed to the Constitution, and this should be written to this gentleman in the master's book that he has to comply with the law that is applicable in that state, and that he has been promised this right! [[Congratulation with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens]] I think what this man does is moral and moral! This is not an honorary man, it is a man who steps our constitution with feet, who tolerates and brings about a breach of justice, and he is, like any other citizen, responsible! [[Abg. Dolinschek: Now it's enough! But now it's enough!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] In fact, he is the only one who refuses consensus, and he is the only one who stands out of the legal framework here. I think that this is a very difficult process, and I believe that politicians who are committed to the Constitution should give a different picture here. [[Abg. Petzner: Do you know what you're saying? Then the Federal President would not have a fishing point...!]] It is a pity that in Carinthia you only know the healthy people's feelings of the Wörthersee, but do not respect the constitution of this republic. [[Abg. Petzner: Such an apothecary of a federal country is a pigry!]] I believe that the path that Mr State Secretary has shown that one can only do this in consensus would be the only right one – not to sow discord and move outside the constitutional framework.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13989	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14010	Madam President. High house! For the Austrian People's Party, I would like to say that in the past we have done everything we can to reach a solution. We would like to say: We're interested in a solution. Carinthia needs this solution. Carinthia needs a forward-looking solution on a broad basis. What's the broad basis for us? – We build on what is considered the historic compromise of 2005 in Carinthia, when, in a truly surprising way of home service and minority representation, we agreed on a common strategy. At that time it was appropriate to revise many prejudices, quite openly said. We have this historic consensus, which was renewed in 2006 and 2007, as a common basis. What is this common basis? – I think we should talk about this question, not the past. We have adopted a regulation on 141 local panels in the main committee. This regulation, ladies and gentlemen, had the approval of the Carinthian minority representatives, namely those who were interested in consensus, and the consent of the then national authorities in Carinthia, the consent of Haider. We then, because that has been consensus, have chosen the following political action: This Regulation shall enter into force only if this Parliament creates a constitutional basis for it. This constitutional basis, ladies and gentlemen, has been allocated to this House in its draft, and I know that because I have personally negotiated it has given me a legendary negotiating night. At 3.45 in the morning, this agreement failed that the SPÖ did not give its constitutional approval at the time, although the then SPÖ president in Carinthia, Gaby Schaunig, expected the Federal SPÖ to support this agreement – for which reasons always. This has resulted in the following situation: The fact that this consensus regulation on the town boards, adopted in the main committee, has never gained legal force. That is unfortunate, and therefore we should continue there now so that we can also lead to a good outcome in this process. We're on it. There has then been another draft, namely by Alfred Gusenbauer, who said: Let's not make 141, but 163! On this draft law, the Consensus only limited. I proposed in my responsibility at the time: Let's try a new one. Let us take out the opening clause because the opening clause in Carinthia is obviously inconsistible, and let us go a path of negotiation between 141 and 163. It seemed to me useful. We should therefore go on this path of negotiation together in the next few months. For us, the basis of the solution that we want, which we ultimately impose on ourselves as a commitment, is, by the way, I hope, for all the parties here represented –, consensus with the groups and the national associations, as far as they are interested in consensus, I also say, a broad-ranging of views with the Carinthian political community, with all the parties in Carinthia – this is important to me, because no one can be interested in the conflict; we want a solution in consensus – and a constitutional basis that we create here in Parliament. We're ready to do that. Ladies and gentlemen, this is always a part of the political debate – and this is to be said openly. The SPÖ did not agree to 2006 was in opposition at the time, although in Carinthia there was a leading responsibility. Today it's the other way round: Today, the BZÖ is in opposition at the federal level, but in Carinthia it is a leading responsibility. I hope that, in this responsibility for Carinthia and for Austria, the BZÖ will also show this awareness of responsibility and will not oppose a constitutional solution here in the House, but will be involved in it. I invite all parties – Carinthia needs this positive decision!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14077	Mr Jannach has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14098	Madam President. High house! It is still true that the local panels in Carinthia are an emotional topic, and it is actually embarrassing that no solution has been found in this respect for decades. I am always wondering a little about the Green Group, which seems to have no other topic for Carinthia than always to argue about these town boards. Before we talk – and we have a clear position – at all about the establishment of bilingual town boards, there must be a minority determination. I don't know what you're afraid of. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Everyone in this country will probably be free to express their views, and the minority will also have to confess clearly how many they are at all. In principle, it is a scandal for me, in a matter that Bruno Kreisky has already considered to be doing, to permanently try to carry dissatisfaction to Carinthia. We as FPÖ are basically the only party representing a clear position here, because even some representatives of the BZÖ are in favour of the establishment of bilingual town boards. I once printed in the archive – the archive is known to be the politician’s enemy – and what do we find there? – We find the representative of defensive Christianity – today he is not here – Ewald Stadler. I know why he's not here: because of course that's embarrassing to him. There is a broadcast by Mr Petzner – quote –: New public prosecutor attack against Carinthia. Stadler requests the establishment of bilingual town boards. [[Abg. Petzner: At that time I was not a Member of Parliament!]] In a request to the Constitutional Court, signed by the German Schäferhund Ewald Stadler, I have to quote that so that it is not misunderstandingd, the cancellation of the name of the place of St. Kanzian, Ebersdorf and Bleiburg is required. [[Abg. Petzner: Dobermann, not shepherd!]] Ewald Stadler plays – that is also the original quote – the taxi driver for Rudi Vouk – this is the Slovenian representative who fights this local panel knowledge. It is quite embarrassing to say yes to local panels in Vienna and to secure the red and black establishment and perhaps to get a job – and then to talk in Carinthia quite differently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Are you in the country day?]] I know you don't like this, but you like to read it; these are your broadcasts. I have something to say to Ewald Stadler. Gerald Groszvom BZÖ refers to Ewald Stadler as follows: Profiling scandalizer and confessing fan of the Latin pre-conciliar measuring rite. And that's a fulfillment assistant – quote – of the “swift right-wing Rudi Vouk”. - That's what the BZÖ says. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Do you have something to chat about?]] But the “German shepherd dog” – as you call your party colleagues – is not mouth lazy either. He calls the BZÖ “sectoidal worship club”, and his founder, Jörg Haider, attests to having a known multiple personality division. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] Stadler's in your ranks! I wonder that Stadler is not here today, that he is not present in this association – he apparently swings with you in the club the incense boiler – today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What is your opinion on the local panel question? It's not important anyway, but...!]] But there is a good analysis of BZÖ-chef Scheuch from Carinthia about Ewald Stadler, who always says out here that he is the savior of Christianity. [[Abg. Petzner: What does this have to do with the placeboard question?]] Ewald Stadler – I’m literally quoting Scheuch – was “not to overwhelm low. ” [[Abg. Grosz: Come, rip yourself together!]] Anyone who spits only poison and galle and detests people in such an unappetising way has lost nothing in the political landscape when it comes to human problems. – BZÖ-Schouch about your colleagues, please. That's clear! Scheuch then adds: And only when it comes to money is the “pater Ewald thick there”. – This is also a quote from you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I quote on Scheuch in relation to the Carinthian local panels: The only thing Stadler remains in the People's Procuratorate from his time is his anti-carinthian approach by calling for the creation of additional bilingual local boards in his function as a popular attorney. - That's embarrassing! – The only thing that will be remembered in politics from his time in time is, in addition to his well-known polishing company, to secure his fat pension. The very clear explanation by Ewald Stadler: He didn't even look at his pension scheme. – The poor person, who knows himself everywhere else, has not looked at his own pension scheme! – He is in the old system of political relations and is firmly categorised there, and that is quite embarrassing. Even Mr. Ing. Westenthaler, in a broadcast about it – the Ewald Stadler by the way called “political Marionette” – is a very “fine” approach that exists there – that Stadler will register a luxury pension. Dear Ewald Stadler, we have to summarize – you're not here today, but I say it anyway –: When it comes to representing the Carinthian interests, you have failed, and at your own gage you just look at your own bag! I would like to close with another quote, also from BZÖ-scheuch: Pius-Bruder Stadler is said to go to the political desert. Amen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14252	Mr Jannach, I absolutely do not like it when speaking through a wealth of quotations – and it can always be found extremes – although I do not like a call of order, but actually the speech no longer corresponds to the dignity of the house. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It was good!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not worth it, leave him!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Bless the poor in spirit!]] I will also address this issue in the next President, because I really believe that we should be very careful here, including when using quotations. I'll call it now. [[Abg. Jannach: But there were quotations!]] I know you were quoting, but of course you can also make a speech with quotations in such a way that she is just over the dignity of the house. I will allow myself to have a discussion about this in the Presidential Assembly. The next item is the speech by Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14324	We have to preserve the dignity of the house that FPÖ does not have. – Let’s go back to the real topic, namely to the Carinthian local panel question. I have to appeal to Mr Wittmann at this point: Finally, stop these chimp canonades against the federal state of Carinthia! – I can't believe you lost the elections in Carinthia. If you are a sincere democrat, then you have to take note of the election result in Carinthia with 45 percent for the BZÖ, for the head of state Dörfler with the demand: no additional bilingual town boards!, as a democrat, even if it does not fit you. [[OBJECTIVES]] Mr Molterer has already said perfectly correctly and perfectly correctly, that the SPÖ is responsible for having to discuss this issue again in the House today, because you at the time, for the reasons of election tactics, because you were sitting in the opposition, have prevented a solution to the question of the Carinthian local panel against the will of your then Landesobfrau Schaunig. That's the truth: You've prevented the solution, so don't get upset about the state we're currently in. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To Mr Ostermayer: I understand he's Vienna, and as Wiener you don't know all about Carinthia. You've twisted some things a little bit and you didn't say it right. The fact is that there is a judgment of the Constitutional Court by the Ras actions of Slovene Officer Rudi Vouk, according to which parts of the Topography Regulation in force at that time were repealed. The obligation of the country of Carinthia, the country and the head of state – whether it was called Dörfler or then Haider – is to make known this knowledge of the Constitutional Court. You, Mr Ostermayer, have said here today as the State Secretary that there would have been a breach of justice in Carinthia, because this rallying has often not taken place. – I tell you very clearly and clearly: It's very dangerous if one accuses a national captain of a breach of justice. And: That's wrong! The rallying has always taken place. Carinthia has always fulfilled its legal obligations in the local panel question. They will not find any knowledge of the Constitutional Court that has not been made known. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So: Watch out and your colleague Wittmann when you go to fields against Carinthia, against a head of state, who was elected 45 percent, and inform yourself beforehand! The fact is, we've done the rallying. This is the task of the country of Carinthia, and the whole thing is back at the Federation. As Mr Molterer said: The Federation must adopt a new regulation. We are currently in de facto empty space, so I would formulate it. That is to say, there is currently no regulation that could be implemented by the country of Carinthia accordingly. This is also included in the question answer: The country of Carinthia is responsible for the embodiment of a VfGH knowledge or a federal law, and it is then responsible for the implementation of a regulation. It also means that the execution is not federal, but state. Right. But to be able to perform... – Mr. Klubobmann Cap, what are you looking for up there? [[Abg. Dr. Cap looks up to the floor ceiling.]] Is it raining down to your place? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (showing on the floor ceiling) But that's coming down! It's already there! It swirls and flutters!]] Let's return to the local panel question, because this is an important topic for you and your party. You only have more than 28 percent in Carinthia. So pull yourself together a little bit, maybe it'll be a little better then. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In order to be able to implement – and that was actually the point – we need a regulation, and this regulation does not exist at present. It would be the task of this House to fill in this empty space and to satisfy it with a corresponding legal matter. It is very important for me to say this – this is a central point of the BZÖ's approach in two directions: In the direction of number one, Mr Molterer, too, is perfectly correct, there must be no solution against the majority and against the will of the Carinthians. There can only be a solution with Carinthia and with the Carinthia. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Everything else is not targeting, that is a basic condition for us. That is to say, we will never and never accept a dictatorship from Vienna in the local panel question. In the direction of number two – and there you can discuss with my colleague Dolinschek from the Rosental – he knows how to do this: We say that the exact number of Slovenian fellow citizens in Carinthia is not known, which nobody knows. They also admit that they do not want to be counted because they know that they are already so few in the meantime that you probably need to cut down more local panels than put them up. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: This is the truth!]] We are here at a level with the European Court of Human Rights, which has also established in a sense that the counting, based on which regulations have been adopted so far, is not lawful within the framework of European human rights, is not legal. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The ECJ has found that there must be a minority determination because this is the only legally permissible way of raising the strength of a people's group. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That's the way it is!]] And before there's a solution, there's got to be this minus in Carinthia. – This is the second requirement that the BZÖ has Carinthia and which we have as a federal and state party. Only then can there be the solution addressed by Willi Molterer in consensus. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Done!]] Finally, Madam President: Our conclusion is – also in the direction of the Greens –: Minority protection is not exclusive and not the protection of sheet metal plates, but something quite different. Think about this sentence! Minority protection is not the protection of sheet metal plates...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14462	Mr President, this has been much more than a final sentence. [[In the case of BZÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Petzner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The final sentence was mostly stump!]] Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14503	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wittmann – I don't see him. Where is he? [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann makes himself felt.]] Thank you. I think you, Mr Wittmann, are making it a little too easy. From the point of view of the larger parties, you have to ask yourself the question of whether you were a bit too cowardly in some political situation, whether you did not make it a bit easy and whether you were not looking at the electoral calendar too much in one decision or another. I can help you: The situation in Carinthia has become a little easier for you insofar as there is now no country election or national council election there for four years. The next election is the 2013 National Council election, the coalition holds. You should keep this appointment in your calendar, because this will give you the chance to possibly bring a solution, especially since you can't lose much in Carinthia. The ÖVP has been a larger small party for a long time, and the SPÖ has approached it at least by direction in the last country elections. [[Abg. Petzner: You're almost not in the country day!]] – Of course, we Greens are not the strongest in Carinthia with 6 percent, but we were still the loudest voice on this question, we have never hidden! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] We may have represented some unpopular position, but we have represented it. We are not cowardly, but the cowards are obviously sitting on the left and on the right. The international reputation would definitely do well, because it is already an almost comical situation: Austria is sitting in the UN Security Council, we are discussing the Middle East, Darfur, the world's largest hottest crisis, but in Carinthia, we are unable to bring about a settlement. [[Abg. Grosz: This is a “super” comparison: Darfur!]] Yes, the comparison tends, but he shows how absurd the theater is in Carinthia and how absurd the situation is in Austria. [[Abg. Grosz: To compare dead in Darfur with local panels in Carinthia is an insult! Incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Article 7 of the State Treaty is to be implemented. That he was written into the State Treaty at that time, I mean, for good reason. At the time, there was distrust about how Austria deals with its minorities. And the political situation that 50 years after the State Treaty was not implemented in Article 7 shows that this mistrust was justified. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One could think of this as a kind of Carinthian BZÖ-Lokalolorit, but it's more; it's more because the Federal Government is sparse and because it only argues on the Carinthian Transport Council. Make a law, make a decree that implements the State Treaty, which implements the knowledge of the Constitutional Court, and then we will see whether the Carinthian Transport Land Council is breaking law or not! – He is also the head of state in personnel union. [[Abg. Petzner: Chief of State!]] The thesis – Mr Petzner always says that – is that the head of state implements everything, because he is a true-right head of state. So dare the step, make a regulation, make a law – and then we'll see if Mr. Landeshupt. Dörfler sticks to it. Consensus is the greatest excuse, because on the one hand, Mr Wittmann comes out here and fire market Dörfler as the biggest constitutional breaker that exists far and wide, but on the other hand, Dörfler is exactly the person with whom he wants to make consensus. – That’s ridiculous, said among us, so you can’t find a solution, so you won’t find a solution. But one thing is clear: The State Treaty must be implemented. There's no room for interpretation. Constitutional court judgments are to be implemented, even if there is no consensus in a federal state on social policy, but that is not the mass of day-to-day maneuvers, but in a rule of law, that must be implemented, that is, what is involved in international obligations and what the Constitutional Court says. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Outside of Carinthia, no one understands this debate, ladies and gentlemen. There are three-language local panels in Romania: Romanian, Hungarian and German. [[Abg. Petzner:... no minority!]] No problem. The same is true in Burgenland, where this has been solved for a long time. [[Abg. Grosz: In the Styria! Kuckuck!]] Just not in Carinthia! I suspect that, in view of the economic crisis and the threat of unemployment, the Carinthian and Carinthian problems also have quite different problems, and that this is in reality a ping-pong game of politics to divert from all the things that go wrong in Carinthia. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Mrs Federal Minister for Justice, you are sitting here, I welcome you and take advantage of the opportunity to ask you what it looks like with a possible or not possible indictment of official abuse against Captain Dörfler. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: Go!]] When you take office, you have promised that You will quickly resolve this in one direction or another – that does not mean that he has to be charged, you have just promised to look at it and lead this ad to a decision. I hope you've already been working there and asked the prosecutor's office if that's already decided. Now I do not know whether it may be related to the lack of staff that a decision on this matter has been open for three years. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Since you are now adopting a package to facilitate judicial decisions, I am convinced that we will also be able to achieve a rapid outcome here and that the advertisement against Dörfler will be properly followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14673	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[16:27:29]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14696	I will resume the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Cortolezis bearings with a desired speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14720	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are now returning to that debate after two heated short debates, which is the real priority, namely the future of our country and how we want to make it budgetary in a challenging time in order to be able to implement the objectives of the government programme. The manuscript that this budget carries clearly shows how we imagine together the future years that will become the most challenging since the Second World War. We want to show with economy and employment, with a corresponding investment in education, in the qualification of adults, with investments in science and research, in security and infrastructure, that, as big as the crisis is, the future is nevertheless to be made by us and the people who also need hope in the future to take their own destiny and to be able to give themselves the framework for employment, because the state does not save, benefit from the corresponding investments. But we also have global budgets as we do not know exactly how the future will look. And as a business consultant, I am very grateful for this step, because I have accompanied many administrative reforms and know how difficult it is to adapt to changing challenges without a global budget. I therefore believe that we also need this step, as does gender budgeting. If colleague Schwentner says about the Greens that it's only about the honors and so on, I have to meet her, Gender Budgeting is a lot, much more. And this budget shows the first step, how to gradually – and this is not going from today to tomorrow – our entire budget can be subjected to the analysis it needs, namely the sex glasses. This applies not only to the honorary marks, but, of course, to all investments. Let's take a look at this in the research field! There is already the impact of the research in question, so that the quality of research can also be improved. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Science and research, as well as education, have received significantly more money. 1 000 € per student – already quoted – but also 1.2 billion € compared to 2008 for research in the next two years. These are investments in the future that will enable us to continue to deliver excellence. The future of a lifelong learning concept does not only start with research, but begins in kindergarten with researching learning. Therefore, the free kindergarten year is particularly important. Ms Marek, Secretary of State, succeeded in establishing a uniform education plan together with the Article-15a agreement, which is intended to enable the very researching learning already in the kindergarten, but which is also intended to ensure that the language and reading skills of children are available at the start of the school, so that they can cope with the start of the school together and fairly. It is important to maintain the educational enthusiasm and curiosity of the children in kindergarten as in primary school. The education standards should ensure and help evaluate whether this curiosity takes place and remains. It is therefore important that the remedial system is prevented and dismantled by the fact that there are certain abilities. We need the education standards as quickly as possible, and any investment in this direction is necessary. But I also support the PASI initiative, which says that PISA is not everything, because education is much more. Now, after the last seven weeks, we urgently need a contentious debate, away from the structural debates that ultimately do not bring us where we want to go, namely to a new, modern education of the 21st century. These difficult times accompany our children and allow them a good start to their professional life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would also like to thank Federal Minister Hahn for strengthening and strengthening Vienna's economic and scientific location. 55 percent of the university budget travels to the University and Research City of Vienna. 60 percent of the funds of the Science Fund FWF, 80 percent of the funds of Ludwig Boltzmann Gesellschaft and 50 percent of the return flows from the EU research framework programme will be invested in the top research location in Vienna. With such budget resources, Vienna can again become the locomotives for Austria, which it must be urgent to get out of this crisis as quickly as possible, for Vienna is finally well positioned in the south-eastern European region. I can only say to the many thoughts that some Members have made about the banks today: We sit here as national councillors and not as bank directors. As national councillors, we should be grateful to all SMEs, to all large businesses for their commitment to South-East Europe, for this is the first guarantee that we will get out of this crisis as quickly as possible and get to economic growth. With education, with research, with innovation, with economic impulses in our neighbouring countries, we will succeed in getting out of it as quickly as possible. Our entrepreneurs are also an example for our boys. We need entrepreneurship, we need a new wave of founders. It is therefore also so important that this package includes social security for entrepreneurs, so that more young people can rely on social security to make themselves independent. They are qualified for this, they will also be qualified for it in the future. It is important that the allowance has been increased from 10 to 13 percent so that the tax situation does not push them into the employee situation, but that the inner desire to make itself independent is an equivalent option to the employee's existence. Tax justice is intended to help bear the economic risk, create work and create prosperity. Entrepreneurship, however, is also to become an important educational goal, from kindergarten to school to university, and will help to secure as many start-ups as possible with the help of educational, research and science investments. I end with the quote of Federal Minister Hahn: “Knowledge creates work, innovation creates advantage.” We still need this advantage in Austria, so that we have our noses ahead and finally we can have employment, that we may have a much better and more optimistic budget in two years than we have today; but we have laid the foundation for this today. Therefore: (Applause from the left) our vice chancellor Josef Pröll, not kneefall, because he deserved more applause than knee fall.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14818	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14839	Madam President. Estimated reigns and ladies on the government bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! There have been speeches, starting with the Minister for Finance, concerning a clear commitment to youth and its education. No, no, no, no, It will be this youth who needs an excellent armor to do what we forget about this double budget, the soup in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So there is really nothing too little for education that we have to equip this youth, today under this burden package, which is bound up for the future. I would like to focus on a few things that have been mentioned in the course of the debate. Mr Klubobmann Cap spoke about several things. Among other things, he meant with almost tearful voice: Yes, it is about the Austrian jobs, where the SPÖ will fight until the fall. [[Call the SPÖ: Let's do it too!]] What, then, about the relief of the cancellation provisions for apprentices in the establishments which, in the course of this crisis, will pay the tokens first and will have to tremble around their workplaces around their place of training? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But much more up-to-date: Mr. Klubobmann Cap said he didn't actually understand that teachers don't want to work these two hours in class. – Well, didn’t he realize that thousands of young teachers and other teachers have to lose their jobs due to this two-hour multi-commitment? Is this the job security of Josef Cap, who wants to attach the SPÖ here to the flags? - That's not her! But now I come to the real issue, because these two hours are not the problem. They would like to teach teachers if they were to bet the school hours reduction of Minister A.D. Goerer here in some form. Yesterday, in the context of the debt debate, Mr Walser said that every child is equally worth it. – Of course every child is worth a lot! Only: It is also necessary to recognise from the Greens that there are always certain differences, which are also found in biology. There are differences between men and women. I hope you will not deny that, because otherwise you may be able to take biological evidence of it if you would like to deny it in your – I would almost call it that – “want of gender”, which takes place here. There are also differences in the gifting of children. Of course, everyone should be encouraged, but I would like to point out something quite different in this context. There are children who are not equally worth it. These are the children who live but are not yet born. There is already a very clear distinction. That's not how much children are worth. On the question of school discussion. If you read public opinion and the opinion published this way, you can see the following: As a result of this debate, the mister is damaged, the union is damaged, the image of the teachers is damaged, the students are damaged, the parents are damaged. This is a large-scale construction site, which now has nothing to do with Mr Grosz, and I believe that Mr Finanzminister may be drinking Lower Austrian wine in his absence, I would like to say that, in principle, if Austrian politicians drink Austrian wine – not only Lower Austrian but also those from the home of Mr Grosz, namely from Styria. On this site of education policy, the Minister I would like to admit for the time being that she really wants to make an administrative reform, with depoliticization, with the abolition of the proportion, with the end of the simultaneous two to three-track administration. Only: With all this commitment, I can't resist the impression that the Minister will have to go back to Pröll and Faymann at the end of the debate, get a headwashing and then eliminate all her commitment with a few strokes in a press service, even if as an opponent she doesn't have a teacher union, but has country heads from the calibre of an Erwin Pröll as a counterpart, which may then be able to say immediately after his nephew what really needs to be done in education policy, namely the preservation of the grain. There she will have to dress even warmer than in the discussion with the teachers' unions. Here again, it is to be feared that all of this is condemned to failure, although the two-thirds majority have been grateful to God.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14888	Mr Petzner is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14909	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am always thinking about the two principles of the EIA, which for them were something like “holy” laws over years, and these are called: do not make new debts and introduce no new taxes. The EIA has broken down several governments with these principles. Among other things, she has made sure that Mr Gusenbauer had to look for the space and that Molterer said it was enough. But with this budget – and this was also shown yesterday by the Minister of Finance’s budget – you have thrown these principles, these “sacred” laws of the ÖVP, overboard. They argue that – and this is the disgrace of this story – that there is now a crisis. You say the deficit you are making is therefore necessary because we have a crisis. I have a pretty slow suspicion that you are trying to sidetrack this crisis from your own mistakes, to propose this crisis as a reason for all your own errors. But that won't work! I'm telling you right now: The crisis will not offer you the opportunity to sidetrack your policy of failure. And I also tell you what your policy of failure is: This is the absolute refusal of reform of the ÖVP! The refusal of reform is dangerous and dramatic to your policy, because you say you have to make debt due to the crisis, but you do not say how you want to reduce this debt again, and you do not say which reforms you want to make in order to get the government budget back under control. Yeah, more than that. They prevent any reform. They are European champions, yes, world champions in preventing reforms. And one of the preventers of reform is in the first row here. I have to say that, even if I personally value him. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let us take a look at what we have enforced in the government: Tax reform, a first step in administrative reform, pension reform! And we were also the only government party that did not make new debts that made a zero deficit. [[Abg. May. Lap: Do you still believe that?]] This you have not brought together from the SPÖ, but also from the ÖVP. We have reduced debt and made reforms. They, on the other hand, make new debts and do not carry out reforms. In the long term, I believe that this refusal to reform is more dangerous than the crisis we are currently experiencing, especially with regard to youth and the next generation, to which I am also counting. I call on you to take the stand of reform and to address your inconsistencies – for the benefit of this country and to secure the future of young people who are partly sitting up here on the gallery! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14952	Next speaker: Mr. State Secretary Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14973	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite right that we have these principles, namely not to make new debts and not to introduce new taxes, but there are situations where we still have to focus on these principles, but we cannot fully respect them. That's why they're far from wrong. What do I mean by that? – Of course, we also have this budget creation – especially the Minister of Finance! – had these principles in mind. We are not the only country in Europe where the budget is being discussed today. At this hour – you only need to go to the Internet, then you will see it – for example, the British House of Commons is discussing the budget – but under conditions other than those of us. It is also true with us that we cannot comply with 3 percent debt, but we are far away from coming to 10 percent debt in this year. This is precisely what English Finance Minister Alistair Darling has to explain to the mandaters together with the head of government there. And in Germany, about an hour ago, the competent finance ministers had to admit that they will not have reached minus 2% of GDP in the next year, but will be beyond 5 percent. It is precisely this international environment from which we cannot get rid of ourselves! I could mention numbers from other neighbouring countries of Austria. In Italy, for example, the deficit is beyond 5 percent in 2009 and 2010 and beyond 6 percent in France. I do not have to mention Ireland, which has already been mentioned a few times today, where there is even a two-digit deficit. In view of these conditions, our top goal was to take a lot of money into our hands so that as many people as possible can stay in the work process – I think it is right – and to do everything that does not reduce the chances of young people being saved in education, whether in the classroom or in the science department. On the one hand, it is important to set the focus, but on the other hand also the household. Minister of Finance Pröll said it yesterday: The negotiations we had with the Ministries were hard! Then: If you go into the door and want more than 18 billion as a whole federal government than you get out of the negotiations or then you have to close the door behind you again, then it is hard, because there is at least 18 billion €, i.e. a huge sum, which has been lost almost on the way of the negotiations to the ministries. That was neither evil nor an act by the Ministry of Finance, with which we unnecessarily wanted to make difficulties for our fellow Members, but that is a necessity when we think of the day after that. And the day after that is the day – and it will hopefully come soon – when we will be dealing with this crisis together, in order to be able to get back to the debt mountain as quickly as possible in a phase of the upturn. We had a backpack before the crisis, a burden that every taxpayer has to carry, and this burden is just below €50,000 per person employed in Austria. That's not little. And of course that was also to be drawn into the calcula. That is why this budget has already achieved what is the task of a federal government, namely to intervene in the form that we do everything we can to ensure that this crisis arrives with many of us later and that we get out of this crisis earlier than many others. There the budget is a very, very important element. There needs to be another element, and there I am with my previous speaker, but I mean the opposite of what he said. Of course, we strongly insist that we implement necessary reforms. We also had a few rounds in the administrative reform. It's a core point. In this case, we need the local authorities, namely the municipalities and the countries. This willingness must be stronger in all local authorities than in the past, and we want to get out of the crisis more quickly, because we can only do so if we get expenditure-side savings by increasing the efficiency of administration, especially where there are double-tracks. Furthermore, we also need the support of the social partners, whether it is in the field of health reform, where a very important task is to us, or when it comes to the Federal Service, in terms of service laws or salary negotiations. In the next few years, we also need the union's willingness to support ourselves here. The social partnership model has won Austria in the past. But the social partnership model will only be able to mark Austria in the future if everyone is willing to make their contribution. The will of the government alone will be too little. The emphasis lies on the words “preparation with all ”! Both the local authorities and the social partners must be prepared to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. And these objectives are: not exorbitantly high re-indebtedness, not thinking of new taxes, but of how we can work together to achieve effective solutions, so that we do not have to suffer the fate that some other countries have to bear, namely, a much higher unemployment and a much greater tax burden. This must be avoided together. And here I ask the opposition parties to support us accordingly. The two budgets available here are a good basis, but whether we can achieve our objectives in the medium term depends not only on these two budgets, but also on the fact that it is not possible to achieve them. In particular, what we are creating in the field of administrative reform and what we are implementing with the necessary legal changes in the next few years. We need the support of the entire House.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15042	Mrs Mag. Musiol now speaks. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15064	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. State Secretary! The government has been famous since the beginning of its term of office, since its arrival, that it is doing a lot for the families. Already around the tax reform we had to listen to what great family relief package this government has tied up, but we already had heated discussions about it at the time because it was not a great family relief package in our opinion. No, quite the opposite: It was a package of relief that only certain families benefited, namely those families who are already strong in income. The low-income families, who needed it urgently, did not benefit from it. We have already pointed out that, from our point of view, we need to invest more in infrastructure, for example in the development of childcare facilities, which on the one hand are an important prerequisite for all children to have the same opportunities, including in terms of education, but on the other hand are also an important factor for the compatibility of family and work, and thus also an important factor for women's policy. But the government has distanced itself from it. While they have shown 15 million in this budget for the expansion of childcare facilities, 25 million for the Free Kindergarten for 2009 and 73 million from 2010. This sounds, if you listen to, quite a lot, but it is not when you consider how many kindergartens are missing in order to ensure a comprehensive care, and when considering what discussions there are in the background, for example, the non-profit kindergartens, the day-mothers and many others. The agreement on Free Kindergarten, which was reached at the beginning of this week, is a first positive step, but if you look at it more precisely, then you see that reality unfortunately looks a little trister, is more inconvenient, because you have agreed to the Free Kindergarten, but only for 20 hours, only for half a day. This means that no solution has been found for all those who need full-day care or more extensive care due to their activity or due to longer arrival and departure periods. There are no innumerable kindergartens, as mentioned earlier, which cannot be built even in the next few years due to too little financial resources. And there is also a lack of kindergarten teachers. But these are not missing because too few are trained, but because only a few of them go into this profession after their training, namely only about a third of them. Why do they do that? – Because working conditions in this profession are disastrous. The payment is bad. That is why we have long called for an increase of at least 40 percent, so that at least the level of teachers can be reached. The group sizes are not reasonable. It is now the talk of 25 children per caretaker. And there are additional tasks due to an article-15a agreement to kindergarten teachers, such as the promotion of language, for which they have neither the time nor the necessary training. But unlike teachers, kindergarten teachers do not have the necessary lobby they need. On the contrary: No one listens, even though they have been organizing and drawing attention to it for years. Yesterday was an event in the “Jungel Vienna” to which the “Kurier” invited, where about 200 pedagogists were present. The mood there was very hot. The Minister of Education was invited, but it was represented by a section leader. It was there that Federal Minister Hahn was the only member of the government. But to the problems raised there, he had only one answer, namely: The problem is federalism, the Federation can't do anything! We disagree. We therefore tabled a bill yesterday on the creation of uniform federal arrangements so that the debate about the hot potato “competence distribution between the federal and the national states” will finally end this play-and-playing process. I am already very excited about how you will behave in this debate. So far, you have been dealing with such requests in such a way that you delay the treatment of these applications and are not clearly positioned by the government groups. They agree to a delay in order to make these applications disappear in any drawers. I hope that you, Madam Secretary of State Marek, will, as I believe, at least do not oppose these proposals at least 100 percent. I would now like to focus briefly on the issue of father participation. A budget reserve was included in the government programme for this purpose. In the meantime, ridiculous €25 million is planned for 2010. Why do we find these ridiculous? – Because it is obvious with this amount that you – and this can only be assumed now – either assume that not many fathers will make use of it – then you have to ask yourself what responsibility the government would have here to bring the fathers to do this – or because you are planning to implement a model here that is so unattractive for the families that they will not vote for it. We hope that both are not the case. We will certainly not be satisfied with a minimal variant, as this is an important concern for women in our view, and we will consider how the debates will take place.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15128	Next speaker: Ms Marek, Secretary of State. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15149	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen at the Intergovernmental Bank! High house! We have to set priorities especially in times of crisis, and we have decided to place one of the priorities of our policy, especially on strengthening and relieving families. Much of what has been agreed in the government programme to relieve families is also available in this budget. Mrs Musiol, you have mentioned the family package, which addresses € 510 million, and I may repeatedly point out to you that one third of this sum consists of pure transfers. This means that all families benefit from these funds, so they are paid out completely independently of income. I think it was important that the many families, which have so far, because they have supposedly earned too much, without any support, and therefore the full burden on them. It is important that the Commission should be able to take into account the fact that it is necessary for the Member States to be able to take But, as I said, a third of the family package is transfers that are distributed independently of income. Mrs Musiol, I am right if you say that childcare is a key factor in supporting families. That is why we have undertaken to pay particular attention to this in our government's work and to further expand the services, framework conditions and infrastructure for the families, and that is why childcare is a very essential point. We could – and we can be very proud of that – successfully conclude negotiations with the countries on the new Article 15a agreement for the free kindergarten on Monday. Every five-year-old should visit the kindergarten free of charge and compulsory in the year before. We are working on a common education plan, and there has already been a great deal of work on the uniform standards, ladies and gentlemen. We have already agreed on basic standards in the government programme. It is important that we have an Austrian education plan. I would also like to thank the countries for their very constructive discussion. That is something where we are taking a big step in the right direction. I would also like to stress that the resources available in those countries that already have free offers in kindergartens should be used again for childcare. In other words, we continue to work on the development of child care services, but we have not deliberately restricted this to the fact that this can only be kindergartens again, but we want to force the care offers for the 0 to 15-year-olds – as long as it just needs to be childcare – and here we really want to take a step in this direction with the objective of the comprehensive offers. The existing 15a agreement will amount to € 15 million a year, which will be distributed to countries, and the € 700 000 for innovative childcare, which we will continue to have in the future, will again be available. Regarding the quality of childcare and basic standards, we are currently working on a training module for dayparents of 200 hours, which we will also discuss with the countries. – I think we are on a good path. A central feature of the family chapter in the government program is the income-dependent childcare allowance. The funds are available for this, and we will also provide this income-dependent model for the existing three-pillar model. In the future, mothers and fathers will receive 80 percent of the last net income in the 12 plus two months, even if the partner is entitled to it. I believe that this will be a very, very strong incentive, especially for the fathers, because we know that this is a stronger incentive for fathers in all countries where there are such models, because the loss of income resulting from the decision for a child is not so great in the case of an item. The companies and their family-friendliness are very important in the compatibility of family and work. Here we have an excellent tool with the Audit FAMILY & BERUF, how we can accompany the companies. We are already discussing that we can provide even more quality and even more service for the companies in the audit process and that we are getting companies into the boat in times of crisis, because I think it is very important to be here in the crisis when many companies have to work with reduced resources. to take special positive measures, what we do with the audit, but also with the initiative “tats instead of words” and the competition “woman- and family-friendly businesses”, an idea by Ridi Steibl, which is not in the hall right now – thanks to Ridi Steibl, that is really an excellent price, we will turn it into a state price and thus add another accent. We know that it simply pays off in the business sector when companies are family-friendly, because these do not even have half of the average sick leave of the Austrian companies, namely five versus 12 – and that is just about money, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the field of youth, I am truly satisfied that we have been able to secure youth organisations and the Federal Youth Office – in the coming months there will be additional new organisations, which will also benefit from the promotions due to their size – because the youth organisations and the institutions of open youth work are the main institutions of non-formal education. The Federal Youth Office is legally equivalent to the social partners and, I believe, is an important partner as an official representative of the young people in Austria – no matter which party, whatever their interests – and is an important contact person for us. That is why it is important to us that we actively and personally involve the Federal Youth Office and the youth organisations in policy making, because the young people of course know very well what to do in their fields. I believe that we can set very, very positive priorities here together. We will be able to further promote additional projects such as accessibility, which is also a very important issue and a particular challenge for youth organisations, as well as the expansion of the Federal Office for the Positive Predicate of Computer and Console games, the so-called BuPP. There is also an important argument for this, if you think that only last year 5 million computer games were sold in Austria alone, and what negative pages there can be, we have all experienced in recent months. Finally, very briefly to women: We have set out in the government programme the National Action Plan on Equality, which we can be very proud of, and I think there will be some important emphasis here on equality between women and men in the world of work. We still do not have the same wage for equivalent work and there is the important objective of closing income shears. In this respect, we have provided for a large number of measures that will certainly be a step further. It is also important to promote women in top positions – in supervisory councils, in board positions; we also have a lot to do, for example, a database in the government programme – but also, of course, the qualified part-time, because it is a fact that many women demand part-time. Part-time means lower income, lower chances, and working in the right direction in this respect would be important, and I think we are on the right track. This budget gives us the means to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15257	Mr Heinzl has now come to speak. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15280	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In the budgetary negotiations, Ms Doris Burehis Minister of Infrastructure has set clear emphasis on investment: As much money as never before in the Second Republic flows into the expansion of infrastructure! All these investments are truly in the face of the fight against the economic crisis and against unemployment. Overall, €22.5 billion will flow into the expansion of the infrastructure from 2009 to 2014, and I am really pleased that it has succeeded in significantly increasing the funds for the renewal and modernisation of the transport infrastructure. This not only has positive effects on employment, but also on the economic location and environmentally friendly mobility. It is also gratifying that the budget of the infrastructure unit will rise to €2,612 billion and to €2,762 billion for 2010. These record amounts finance real future investments and thus values for generations. Gaps in the road network will be closed, and the Austrian rail network, which, as you know, still comes to more than 70 percent from the monarchy, will reach the state of the 21st century. ==References== And what is particularly positive about this: For more than 50,000 people, their employment will be ensured in the long term. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now on the most important key data: The total investment for rail and road will be significantly increased once more from the existing record level – 60 percent of the money will flow into the rail and almost 40 percent into the road. This makes an important contribution to supporting economic and employment in the current crisis, because especially now that the construction industry is suffering massively from the economic crisis: The companies need orders, people need work! That's why quick action is important, and Wifo-chef Aigerer has said the following – I quote –: It is particularly important to press ahead with the measures already adopted. The time factor is very important. Everything that is started in the first half of the year is double effective. - Quote. And it's done fast! In March and April alone, 50 new construction projects will be launched by the ÖBB and the ASFINAG. Summary: What does the Investment Plan bring? – employees and businesses benefit from this, the economic location is upgraded, and the shift to the environmentally friendly rail is forced. And of course, citizens benefit from the investment: They get modern railway stations as well as faster and safer rail and road connections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15335	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15357	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe we all agree that, if we are discussing the budget today, we do not necessarily make a joyful mood, but in view of the global economic situation, we are talking today about a budget that is a useful and effective instrument to address the crisis accordingly, and we are also much better there than other comparable countries in Europe and in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The main objectives of this budget are the fight against unemployment, strengthening internal and external security, improving educational opportunities for our youth and strengthening science and research. The government has already launched a number of steps with the bank package to secure savings in recent months. – In this respect, perhaps a bit strange is the strong criticism of the FPÖ at the moment: Just before the turn of the year, she criticized the fact that the money is not yet with the banks, and now she criticises that the banks are taking advantage of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Two economic packages for the medium-sized economy are launched and a tax reform with a focus on the small earners and the families. The EIA and all of us should continue to do everything we can to secure jobs in the future, and this includes creating good conditions for businesses. – Another word in the direction of the FPÖ: I believe that it is the wrong way to attack and shed viewed, potent banks such as the Raiffeisen organization in the country and thus actually turn against 60,000 employees in a farm. [[Abg. Weinzinger:... the farms!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] That's the wrong way! We should work together to find ways of creating good conditions for businesses and for workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another aspect: Property also means motivation! Property should not be made impossible by terms and regulations, property should not be made impossible by disproportionate taxation! I am also in favour of Europe-wide reflection and massively pushing that we receive a financial transaction tax across Europe, but a property tax in Austria, as I believe, is the wrong way. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to take out a few figures from Chapter 42, which concerns agriculture and forestry. The figures for the years 2009 with €2.215 billion and 2010 with €2.208 billion are about the same amount as in 2008, but this includes, of course, payments from Brussels, which includes payments necessary for the co-financing of Brussels payments, but also, of course, those for national measures that are important for our farmers and farmers. Our farmers provide enormously important, indispensable services for the whole society. It is therefore important to give due attention to the economic situation of farmers to strengthen marketing organisations, to support the breeding associations accordingly and above all – and that is essential! – take care of the markets. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Huber]] The home market is essential, but the export market should also be supported and processed accordingly. The call for consumers to buy domestic products also means jobs in their own country, in Austria. – I think it is important that we make this clear. Allow me to take another point from Chapter 24, namely the control of animal diseases. I have to read from the budget that there is not enough budget resources for the fight against bluetongue, although in full chapter 24 in 2008 € 790 million were available, € 865 million were available in 2009 and € 993 million will be available in 2010. I mean, it is a task in the public interest that the €11 million required in each case will also be made available for the control of animal disease of bluetongue. I'm saying a clear one. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, All in all, we need to create framework conditions that allow farmers to generate income, because that also means job security – even in our all interest. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] So, let's do everything we can – as a conclusion – so that people in our country can do well! We from the ÖVP do so with this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15441	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15463	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, a few words about Mr Eßl – he said we would have gotten this wrong –: No, we didn't get it wrong! The bank package should have the meaning of ultimately ensuring that loans are granted again to customers and companies, and our criticism is that this is not what has happened so far, and it is precisely because the fear is that the funds that are being committed and made available will be used to cover speculation losses instead of actually taking infrastructural measures for which loans can be granted. – That is what we have addressed and criticized. Secondly, Raiffeisen is not mistreated by us, but we criticise the management and commitment that apparently leads to hundreds of millions of euros being speculated and that this also poses a major problem for the domestic economy. At first, my impression is that a little too much is going to be secreted into the budget: It is as if the deficit is in fact just because such comprehensive infrastructure measures are being taken. – In my opinion, it is essentially simple and simply a continuation of the previous budget, only because of the lower revenue and higher expenditure the sheer sheer has risen or cleared up and a higher deficit has arisen. But this was not because of specific measures, but because of the fact that the budget was simply continued – not a really big throw. When the funds are scarce – and everyone knows that! – then there are always two options: I see there's more revenue, or I can see that I'm reducing expenditure. It is always discussed here only on the question: Where can I get more money?, and it's always a special predicate when I say: I have spent so much millions of euros in this area and so much so many millions there!, but it is nowhere to be heard that someone is proud of it or finds out where you can really save money. If such proposals are made, then one makes fun of them, and does not understand what it means if solidarity is exercised by those who can really afford it. Part of this redistribution debate – and it has not yet been addressed – concerns the problems and costs of immigration, which are quite massive. We know very well – studies have also proved this – that immigrants, at least in the first 15 years, definitely cost the state money, and in the type of Immigration, which has been allowed over the last few decades, has, in particular, been the major problem of the fact that no qualitative immigration has taken place at all, but of immigration of mostly unskilled and non-educated people, which has led to the direct entry of these people into the social network. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We know that 50 000 immigrants get a maximum of 5,000 into the work process, the rest falls into our social network. In fact, we have to think about how to reverse this, and we have to take very serious measures to ensure that those people who are upset do not make any contribution here, because they are unemployed and so on, are also brought back, because the Austrian economy does not continue to be able to contribute to people who will never be able to make an essential contribution to our society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, the problem of asylum is also very much involved in the game, which in reality is no longer there for refugees, but only for allowing the immigration of economic refugees under the cover of asylum. We also know... – It is incredible that this is possible, you are perfectly right, Mrs. Colleague! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] The fact that this is possible to this extent is truly incredible and is burdening our state enormously! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not human hatred at all! If you look at what Austrians, who have become unemployed for some reason and perhaps have a family, get support, and see in relation to what asylum seekers get, you see clearly that this is not human hatred, but you have to find that there is injustice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ablinger.]] It is not about paying out asylumable cash amounts, but about putting them in safety once. Whoever is a real refugee is happy when he's in safety somewhere, and that's not about getting any cash benefits. If these cash benefits go so far as to be higher than those that get Austrians once they fall into the trap and need social assistance, then I see a real problem there. This too is part of the problem that Austria has: that essentially we do not reward the performance, but that we say to everyone: Come to us, here you have guaranteed social benefits!, and thus made possible a completely false immigration and allow even further. This too is a very massive problem for our economy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, we still have the problem of foreign regulation by the European Union, which wants to be constantly discussed away. But we need to know very specifically what rules can be made by the EU. Therefore, the conclusion from the crisis must be that the interests of Austria must now be put at the centre. That's not indecent. On the contrary: This is even our task as a people's representative!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15560	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15581	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to my actual remarks, Mr Magistrate. Stefan, let me have a little number game. They require the return of unemployed foreigners who are long-term unemployed. Do you know how many people of foreign origin in Vienna are more than 12 months unemployed? Do you know? – There are 116 people. [[Abg. Neubauer: You will hopefully tell us!]] 116 people! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If you want to tell me now that you save the Vienna labour market, if you bring back 116 people, then I think we can forget everything. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: Foreigners in the unemployment rate: How high is the percentage? You know that?]] Yeah, I know that, too. It's the same as the domestic. [[Abg. Weinzinger: No!]] That's the same thing in the relationship. It's the same first time in the relationship. - Point one. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Just not! It's exactly the double!]] Point two: Do you even know how the largest migration takes place in this country? [[“Germany!” - Call the Greens.]] Thank you! And do you know, among other things, how many of the ladies and gentlemen from the Federal Republic also become unemployed here because, for example, now the tourism season has ended in winter? [[Abg. Oils: That's what they want, reuniting!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan:... we can't go back, Mr. Cot!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It's being built up here by you. If we start with this – one time I’ll be brief about your discussion – when we start to discuss when someone is a profit for our social system or not, then we’re on the question: What about child care free? What about non-contributory family care? And, and, and so! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I think there should be a debate here on how to lead. Those who are legal here – no matter where they come from – have their place here, and they pay too! It is also completely wrong to say: Of 50 000, only 5 000 find employment here. That is, please, a number that has been completely invented! She's not believable, she's not believable at all. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Ask...!]] I'm sure I can ask my fellow citizens. I can also answer that with naked numbers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should also like to address a little bit of what we have foreseen in the social budget and in the labour market budget. [[Abg. Grosz: The disabled billion has stayed the same! Sad!]] The number of people with disabilities has remained the same, yes; but the number of people with disabilities has also remained the same because it had to be introduced in a night and fog action at all. You know a little more about that than I did because you were there at the time. The number of people with disabilities has remained the same, but at the same time the money for the disabled is very likely to be spent more precisely. No project is stopped, we are in intensive dialogue with all the disabled organisations. That's our answer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: The European Social Fund has halved it, and with us it remains the same! That's why it's useless...!]] I do not know where you have this, that it has halved the European Social Fund. [[Abg. Grosz: It's in all the newspapers, Minister!]] I can only tell you that, for example, I have the ‘smallness’ of € 138 million for the labour market policy of the European Social Fund in this year! I don't know where you're talking about something being halved. [[Abg. Grosz: How much was it before?]] The European Social Fund... [[Abg. Kickl: What does he eat from?]] We benefit from all the resources, and the European Social Fund is financed in the same way as all the funds in Europe: It's a joint financing. We do not have a total budget for labour market management, for active labour market administration, as Mrs. Schatz has said this morning, just a plus of something with 130 million, but we actually have a plus of 400 million €. We have €1.3 billion at our disposal, because it has succeeded in increasing ESF funding to € 138 million – that is one thing – and because it has also succeeded in financing short-time work from performance and not from active labour market policy. In other words, short work is financed from the performance segment, and for this we have a total of € 220 million at our disposal. That means everything together is €1.3 billion. If you compare this to 2008, you can say it's almost half more! We also invest very massively in youth. If it is said here that the youth unemployment, the unemployment of the apprentices, will all rise, because now supposedly the apprenticeship announcement is possible, then I can only invite you to talk to the mediators once, talk about how the system works! [[Abg. Kickl: That's what your trade unionists say!]] In reality, the system has been intensified. In the past, a fifth of the teaching conditions have always been dissolved over a period of time. Now, the mediation procedure of this fifth is no longer possible. There will continue to be consensual resolutions, as in the past, but fact is: The mediation process has made it a lot more difficult and a lot more complicated. - That's one. The second is: I believe that many companies are currently in the process of revising their numbers as far as the apprenticeships are concerned. There will be all major enterprises that will work short, increase their apprenticeships, starting at the Voest, starting at MAGNA, starting at the ÖBBBB. We will also, together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, carry out a correspondingly large apprenticeship in June, because, I believe, all of us have simply realized that the investment in the future in this country means giving young people a training. The training guarantee will be fully implemented in September/October. That is to say, every youth who wants an apprenticeship in September/October will have it! As far as the number is concerned, for example, at the hour in four federal states we have more open apprenticeships than job seekers. We have the situation – that is perhaps not understandable for many – that there are more open teaching places in four federal states than those looking for teaching places! We will have spent €357 million for the entire apprenticeship funding this year, when the year is over. 357 million, which means that we support each apprenticeship every month with 260 €. That is, I believe, a number that cannot be debated away; it is so! I am deeply convinced that all young people who want to have an apprenticeship will also receive them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bookers: Many have already promised! All your predecessors have promised!]] This is not “promising”, but it is naked budget figures. You only need to put it together in the budget, Mr Klubobmann, then you will see where the money for it is available. You will also notice, when you talk to businesses, that apprenticeships are being promoted and that there is funding for apprenticeships. The companies get the money not for something anonymous, but for something effective. As a result, this is, I believe, a flow of money that is fully comprehensible. We still have a very special target group because it concerns most. These are those between the ages of 19 and 24 who have now fallen out of the system, who primarily come from the group of temporary and temporary workers who come primarily from the group of industry. Unemployment has two premises at the hour: She's male, and she's young. This is unemployment in this country at an hour's time, and the increase in unemployment is coming from these two groups. We still have an increase in employment among women at hour, in the number of employees, but we have a relatively large reduction in men, resulting in this overall reduction. It's clear, too: For the “Action Future Youth”, that is, for all 19 to 24 year olds, we have defined an additional special budget from the entire AMS budget. This €120 million applies only to this group from 19 to 24 years, and the aim is to get within six months either a new job or a qualification measure or a re-training measure. We have already started this at the end of February, and in March it was possible to get 13 000 young people into employment again. That means the turnaround worked, and it goes on. I would also like to say the following at this point. The issue of youth is on the one hand, and of course older workers are equally important. Throughout the AMS budget, we can find that we only have 185 million € for programmes for older workers – without the age-part-time! – spend and invest this money, in particular for integration aid, in socio-economic enterprises, in employment projects and for re-training. I'd like to finish. – Of course, this is only the one side; on the other hand, we are preparing the 2 labour market package. The 2 labour market package provides for a redesign of the age part-time, we are working intensively on the employment fund for temporary workers, it will re-regulate the age part-time, it will extend the transitional allowance and so on. This means that other activities are planned here, which we can very soon bring in here in the House and take the decision-making process. Finally, I would like to say: Active labour market policy not only means taking on a lot of money, but active labour market policy also means taking this money very meaningfully. Active labour market policy, above all, is to pave the way for 15-, 16- and 17-year-olds today to a training, to pave the way for vocational training, because, I believe, it is still the best answer for a society, but not the way to the Social Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15846	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. – Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15867	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget available for the women's resort is generally modest, so it is adapted to the women's resort. The Minister for Women did not have much room for action, especially in relation to the budget, and she is very dependent on the other ministries, which she herself admits. In her speech on tax reform, Ms Marek also mentioned the importance of equality between women and men and the importance of the closure of income shears. In this context, I should also like to address the tax reform, which, however, makes income shears continue to rise and not close, because this tax reform is almost to be described as anti-female. It is interesting to note that the Minister for Women has agreed. The women are getting worse here again. It is stated literally in the explanations on tax reform: Higher incomes benefit from tax relief, absolutely, more than low. Therefore, due to income scarcity, men are favored in absolute amounts. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The small incomes involved – and these are at least around 900 000 self-employed women who earn €1,000 or €1 100 – do not pay a tax, but they have nothing to pay from the relief of child care costs. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You will only get € 7.50, i.e. the increased amount of child drop-off. I am already wondering where justice remains and what equality exists, because the single parents with low incomes must also stand up for their childcare. You have to pay the same as someone who has a higher income. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] From my point of view, therefore, it is a very unfair measure which has been put in place here. We of the BZÖ took place on 11 November. This year, a comprehensive motion for a resolution was put forward, which included family and women's relief measures and which would be a very good example here. Now again to the budget: Despite the slight increase in the female budget, I am curious about what Mrs Minister wants to do about her projects, how she will present her balance sheet to us at the end of the day and what she looks like. In this context, I would also be interested in the percentage allocation, the weighting of budget resources, in other words, how much investment is being made in the development of women's advisory and service services, how much investment is being made in intervention agencies against violence, how much the National Action Plan is obtained and how much is invested in equality on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15921	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15943	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Just a short sentence on Minister Hundstorfer: At the beginning of his speech, he called into question the profitability discussion in the case of social benefits. This debate contribution was much shorter than that of the vice chancellor, in any case – to quote the head – Christian-social and content better. I can only congratulate you on that. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] Now, very briefly – I only have 4 minutes – to the university budget: Minister Hahn meant that if everything goes up in the Science Committee, we could give up his budget with two fingers. – I admit and acknowledge that, given the situation, the budget looks better than expected. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] However, the universities lack a whole arm to open up to the top nations, and then it can't be clap so nicely. You have to correct that. I would also like to say that I expected to be intellectually gifted, perhaps, on an average, but then I got into trouble with myself when I was looking for the numbers that he called: the increases, not in terms, but in absolute sums. I then said to myself: Well, section heads and senior officials of different departments, on duty and out of service, may be wiser! But they couldn't help me either. That's why I'd already appeal: If we want to believe Hahn, that's almost okay. But there is something wrong, because when you read the explanations of the Federal Proposal – I even recorded the page: Page 289 –, There is no increase in the budget in the expenditure of the Hahn resort, since it is not read from it. So I'm curious. If so, I still have to say: These are payments to universities which were promised and decided in Parliament years ago and which concern the most urgent construction measures and renovation measures of those buildings that would otherwise be closed by the labour inspectors due to the lack of worker protection provisions 2013. I do not think that this is an innovation, but I would assume it is a matter of course. If we have care relations at universities that are beyond good and evil, if then Joanneum Research suddenly presents a study that we have almost the best in the world, and if it turns out to be a complete statistical aberwitz, then you probably have to ask some budget figures here. The Austrian Academy of Sciences receives money – hurra! But I would have expected that. However, their President Schuster said in an interview that everything that is less than €95 million in budget puts the Academy in serious trouble. – He gets 85 million € now! The FWF budget is available again – hurra! This is also available for German funds, but in double height per head of the population. But still, let's be happy! At least the part of the rule budget has doubled, and the research fund does not have to beg constantly to get the usual sum by the end of the year. But what I find somewhat depressing: If all of this is compared with the 2008 budget, with the proposal, but the success is much higher – I do not suppose that Federal Minister Hahn has successfully thrown out the money where it makes no sense – the budgets are falling compared to the success of 2008. And so there is a lot more to be clear about, and I hope that we will then deal with this in the budget debate. Professional universities also receive an increase in their budgets of 13 percent. Valorization alone, however, would make up at least €40 million more if their study course management, which has not been valorized for years, were to be Valorized. And so on, and so on. The growth path – that is what experts say – is not even mine – is not to keep. Hahn said something else. Pröll says something else. The ÖVP says something else. The growth path is not to be kept! No disasters are going to break in, that's right. I am grateful for that, and others are also happy, but where we wanted to come, we are unfortunately not coming with this budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the end of the day, on the biggest problem, and now, if it is necessary, I am going to cover 30 seconds. Where I feel very little sense of responsibility with some of the government and with some of the parties, the situation is the cash registers. This is becoming precarious due to the economic crisis and recession. Their budgets, which were mainly due to revenue erosions and measures by the Federal Government, will logically increase dramatically and rapidly due to precarious employment conditions, part-time employment, low wages and unemployment. What happens then, I look at you! The restructuring package, as we have already criticized this morning, is not only too late, it is also too poor. 45 million €, then another a few million euros when the cash registers are reforming when the cash registers change structures. I'll tell you: Smoke-Kallat has made a health reform, of which no 10 percent have been implemented, and a cash-reform requires the consent of the countries. Today, a lot of the knee has been talked about, and I too can say: Before the leather pants policy of the national leaders – and leather pants are not a health achievement – all fall on their knees. And that this is cost-effective, everyone knows too, but that's all meated. The most important thing is peace in the country! It's worth something to me, but it's not at this price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16046	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16067	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that in absolute terms, the path originally planned in the field of research and science will not go as far as originally planned. However, GDP will not be as high as originally planned, and it is therefore quite possible that we will reach the 3 percent research rate earlier than thought. This is more dependent on the development of GDP and on how Austrian companies will participate in research activities at universities through co-financing in the next year and next year. In principle, nothing has been left of the cry of the researchers, who have been prying down on us for weeks now. It is true that the Federal Government has made very great efforts to solve this problem in the broadest sense – fortunately, no one is likely to be happy about it, but most of it –; at least € 1 billion more for research and development. If you calculate this in old currency, the huge amount that we spend on here in addition. It is already striking that today some ministers on the government bank were very well and objectively discussed. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice have reported very objectively on her budgetary situation in the light of the economic conditions. We have heard the Minister of Science, the Minister of Infrastructure and the Minister of Research, who has been able to report very positive reports because it is very much invested in education, research and infrastructure. And, of course, the Minister of Social Affairs, who finds very good budgetary conditions to fight the economic crisis, also comes. I am also very glad that Mr Vice-Chancellor took back more or less of his statement yesterday that the American house builder-cridite had been the trigger of this financial crisis. Because one thing is clear: Of course, the U.S. was the trigger. The main trigger was the FED, the American private central bank, which, under Mr. Greenspan, served Mr. Bush to finance his activities around the world by introducing very peculiar trading programs by the FED, which gained up to 1 300 percent in value within a year. These were all real estate funds, and it is of course absolutely implausible that a property or a real estate share can have 1 300 percent performance in one year. o has been doing this for years. That was then divided, sold and so on. It is not surprising that today the International Monetary Fund notes that not 2.6 trillion dollars of toxic papers are on the way, but 4 trillion dollars today. It may be in July 7 Billio- and 10 trillion dollars in November. Nobody can say that. This has been practiced for years, and you will still be very excited about how the situation develops. This is also crucial to how the states have to react. A transaction tax is therefore absolutely necessary alone, so that one knows and recognizes at all the volumes that are being traded here on a daily basis. This is far more than 80 percent more than the activities in the real economy, in which production and in the service sector would correspond. 80 percent of larger movements are made daily in the financial sector. This continues to happen, which has not been halted by the financial crisis. The question whether there will be wealth taxes or transaction taxes will not arise. In any case, it will not remain an ideological question, because it will simply show that many conservative finance ministers in Europe and in the world will have to implement some measure in order to get the government's budgets back on track. I can only hope that the funds we have made available to our banks will not be staggering. Then the budget looks much better again. In this sense, I hope that Austria will cope well with this crisis, which is a global one. In any case, the possibilities we have nationally have been used very well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16119	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16140	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! I cannot leave the 'gener-wahn' of Mr Rosenkranz. I think you'll understand. My diagnosis: not understood, not understood, or latent anti-female. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Stefan, too, has actually been very depressing about the concept of gender, no matter how short it is, because he has noticed that he does not know what’s going on at all. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Instinct: I have to disprove this now!]] Now on the real issue, ladies and gentlemen. The budget report, which was debated yesterday and today and was prepared and presented by our vice-chanc and finance minister, is accompanied by a strategy report explaining the draft federal framework law and the budgets and objectives by 2013. Why am I responding to this report? – Because it is essential and important, and this importance may not be attributed by many at all. This medium-term federal financial framework is an important planning and management instrument and sets out in a compressed form essential cornerstones of medium-term budgetary policy. I would like to stress this because, in the communities – and I am saying this as a mayor – for years now, we have, of course, to create a medium-term financial plan for each annual budget, even if we have to correct it again in two or three years, which is, of course, and also appropriate. This budget – Mr Pröll, the Minister of Finance, has also implemented this – is a budget of sustainability, sincerity and, above all, responsibility for the will. Why do I emphasize the word responsibility so much? – Because today’s debate in plenary has shared exactly the whole day between those who are willing to take responsibility, especially in a difficult, challenging time, as we have never experienced in the Republic in the last decades, and those who pursue pure populism and populist “page views” policy. This has proved to be quite clear today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, for me personally, not only the figures and figures that are recorded and recorded in the budget are important. No one, worldwide, Europe-wide and neither here in Austria – neither the financial experts nor the economic experts, the economists – can say today how long the crisis will last, how intense it will ultimately be. My concern is that none of us know what profound social policy changes we will face after this crisis in our country. Very important and important: Which envy complexes will come up? What changes will there be in society? These are questions that we should deal with. The basic principle that Josef Pröll used in this budget is therefore: Creating frameworks, drawing borders and defining the objectives very clearly. It is a question of ensuring sustainable public finances and re-responsible for the budget deficit as quickly as possible after the crisis, because it is the task of a budget to ensure state security. And it's at risk! We all, who have dealt seriously with this, know that this year's economic downturn, and also next year's downturn, is the absolute necessity and therefore the top priority of giving impetus to the economy in order to keep people in employment with the economy, not to send them to the unemployed, but also to tackle short-term work. I would be very pleased – my colleague Jakob Auer has already said this today – if we put one on these economic packages, the two that we have already chained, on top of them, for the communities! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: With us for a business package for the communities!]] We have the projects on the table; they are implemented. We also want to deal with regional businesses. My colleague, Mr Schenk, has meant tax relief, tax reform does not bring women anything but, on the contrary, it is. – I would like to say quite clearly: Women in particular benefit from the tax reform in 2009, because 510 million €, a huge package for the Austrian families, especially for families with children, has not yet been available in the past. It is also not true that the increase in the amount of child drop-off is not worth the fact that the introduction of the child allowance of € 220 per year does not mean that the deductibility of child care costs does not make sense that tax freedom for employers' grants does not make sense up to €500 per child. It makes sense! Those women and men who do not pay taxes today are 2.7 million workers. In turn, women benefit because more than half of them are women, and they do not pay taxes. And one thing is clear: We must also strengthen those who pay taxes so that we can afford those who do not pay taxes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we break through this system, we are endangering social peace in our country. Above all, the objective must be to maintain social peace in our country, in addition to all the figures and stability in the economy and in financial policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16236	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16272	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mrs Schittenhelm, the honourable Member, is not only our goal, that those who pay taxes should be supported in such a way that they can support those who do not pay taxes, but our goal should be to create an economy that actually allows anyone who does 40 or 38 hours of work with us to the extent that he can also pay taxes. That's the goal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It cannot be a jubilation if it is found that half of the Austrians do not pay taxes. We know exactly what that means! They deserve too little to get into the tax system at all – and this is the problem we have. Ladies and gentlemen, I can also correct one thing: Mr Mag. Steinhauser has claimed that in Slovenia there is no problem with local boards... – Romania? [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: Romania!]] - Sorry, I understood Slovenia. Then that's deleted, because it's right there. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, who has been in dispute with me – I am quite away from seeing our fellow Members – has been informed: The current unemployment rate: Nationals 219 000, compared to the same month last year plus 26.9%. Foreigners 51 000, this is a plus of 37.9 percent. So just like I said, It's the double. In fact, more than double. - That's just on the verge. Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to say to my previous speaker: We are responsible, and our government is obviously responsible. She has said that, she has said so too, and yesterday in the budget speech we heard it with extremely impressive – some have said: anointing – words of Mr. Finanzminister and Vice-Chancellor. And then you say, The opposition makes all of this bad! You said, "Kill," you said. – The thought that we're worried obviously didn't come to you. If I look at the 2009 federal proposal and the 2010 federal proposal compared to 2008, I can only say that we are completely justified in worrying, without taking the word crisis into the mouth that has fallen in this discussion until now about 400 times. In 2008, we had no international problems in the economic and financial market sector and had costs of € 73 999 million. This year, at least in the first three quarters, we had revenues of €64 435 million. This results in a loss of €9,564 million, at a time when we were still relatively good, at a time when we had a government consisting of the two former major parties, from the large camps of this Republic. This has developed further for 2009. It is not that one could say that there would now have been a huge cutback from international problems, from economic and financial market problems. The acid is not there, but the tendency is the same: Expenditure 77 € 442 million, revenue: 63,884 million €. Ladies and gentlemen, this results in a loss of €13 558 million. Even for the year 2010 one can see no real acidity, one can only see a continuation of this trend: Expenditure: € 70 730 million, suddenly € 7 000 million less, revenue: 57 592 million €, finish: 13 138 million €. Ladies and gentlemen, this is in principle just a continuation of our budget, because here too I see no huge investment. In 2009, we spend 11 870 as much as in 2010 at 11 462 on education, research, art and culture alone. However, for business, infrastructure and the environment, we arrive at 18 259 compared to 9 116 in 2010. We're not going to do anything anymore. Please, this is not a budget, but a sign that you do not carry out the tasks, homework, the duties for our home country, and if, then, only very, very badly. For this, all the praises we have heard today and yesterday have been uttered for nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16337	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16358	Mr President. High house! Klubobmann Kopf has said today that this budget would be marked by Christian-social values, and the focus would be on security and also science. – I will try to figure out in my short speech that this is not the case. And I am also against the fact that the ÖVP abuses Christian values here, only because a Finance Minister has a budget speech – pardon: Budget reading! – held, with the incense boiler by the way, how beautiful, great and classic everything would be. He has tried to ignite everything, Mr. Col. von der ÖVP, he has tried to blind the view of the real facts, but he has not said that we have forgotten very important priorities, such as in the field of education, science, security, social matters. That's what ÖVP just forgot. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Klubobmann's head also stands out here and repeats the prayer mill-like; he also speaks of Christian values again. – This is like the rosary prayer: You repeat everything for so long, until then some still believe in it, but that's why it's not more correct. Mr Matznetter from SPÖ, you argue that this government is doing something against the crisis. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: I didn't argue! I said we were doing something about it!]] The only thing I've seen is that the SPÖ is putting it against the crisis: with Mr Faymann. And that's too little. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: We're not just posterting! We're doing something too!]] Mr Matznetter, you are not doing enough against the crisis with this government, this government itself is the crisis in this Republic! That's the point. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] To the science budget – Mr. Col. von der ÖVP, listen to me a bit, young people also know something –: The science budget – now I want to praise you – has been quite successful in its approach. Minister Hahn has promised to achieve an increase of around €400 million in 2009 and 2010. It will then be only €300 million, so there is a lack of €100 million. At the universities we have a good increase, with the replacement of tuition fees remaining negative again, therefore the head of the rector's conference, Christoph Badelt, says that there is no money for new places of study, for infrastructure and for research. University of Applied Sciences: This is, in principle, all right. But the provision of the science funds for basic research, the FWF for example, has fallen by almost 10 percent. You can't be happy as an opposition party. We have therefore made a request to provide it as it did in the previous year. This request was rejected by ÖVP and SPÖ. Therefore, there will be no permits to the same extent as in the previous year. In addition, the permits are now located for half a year and the projects have been delayed. Although President Kratky thanks the Minister of Science for his kneefall, he says that it is actually happening, but he also restricts the scope of the funding to the extent that it is possible. In the case of the research promotion society, that is, the society that is to carry research out into the economy, there is only a slight increase of 3 percent at all. And then I'll ask myself, If you throw 15 billion € in the throat, why not take more money into your hands for science and research, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! The same image at the Academy of Sciences: There is hardly any increase, and President Schuster said that less than €95 million the Academy was in serious trouble. Now they have 85 and 87.5 million €. As they cover just once the costs of collective agreements that will rise. Another issue, namely the issue of security, which is important to me – and also to show the double density of the ÖVP there a little bit. Her head of state in Upper Austria pasted and advertised: 400 new police officers for Upper Austria! I asked the Minister of the Interior. The answer to the question was: April of this year – this is interesting – has resulted: In Upper Austria, 337 retirements are expected by 2013 – it may also be more or less – but 400 new shots are planned by 2011; there may also be less. If you calculate this now, then you definitely have, when it is expected optimistically, 63 more posts. I now ask colleagues from the ÖVP, I ask the Minister for the Interior – Mr Pühringer is also a religious teacher, and I think the eighth commandment: “You should not lie!” will be important to him –: Where are the other 340 police officers for Upper Austria? Where are they? Please tell us! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But I suspect that after the red fairytale uncle in Upper Austria, the SP-chef Erich Haider, we now also get a black fairytale uncle Josef Pühringer. It's going to be funny who's going to be head of state in the autumn, because it's going to be tight for both. Last point: Federal Lord. The Federal Army budget has remained almost the same. Finally, I quote from a letter from the President of the Austrian Officers' Society Captain Hofrat Dr. Eduard Paulus: The death of the army is preprogrammed. In the present situation, only more remains to cancel foreign operations, otherwise there is no longer even the capacity for domestic disaster aid, say flood, snow pressure. - Quote. That's all there is to say. You led the federal army into bankruptcy! I'll get you together. The government does far too little for research and development, far too little for science and makes a declaration of bankruptcy in both internal and external security. This government does not cope with the crisis, it is, as I said at first, the crisis itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16442	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16464	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of the Interior! My previous speaker has yes. Right: It is far too little for research, far too little for science, far too little for the environment, and - I think you are right, Mrs Innenminister – far too little for internal security too. Mr Health Minister, I think you would rather have more money for your area, whether it be for health care or alternative therapies. And Mrs Frauenminister or Mrs State Secretary, I think that more money would be needed to compensate for imbalances or to start funding programmes in your area. But all that you lack, what we lack in science, research, education and cetera, that is, in part – in part, I say – unfortunately relatively useless in infrastructure with billions at the expense of future generations. That's it. I can explain it to you in detail. The Minister of Finance has spoken of undiscovered checks, which he does not want to exhibit, the Minister of Finance has spoken about a mortgage to the future he does not want to enter, and the Minister of Finance has said that he would in any case also like to advance sustainability in budgetary policy. At the same time, this Minister for Finance and Today, Minister Bures, said that € 3.7 billion a year – € 3.7 billion; Ms. Interior Minister, let this number break down once on the tongue: €3.7 billion a year – for the investment in infrastructure. Yes, extra-budgetary. That's our big problem. There, where it does not directly become budget-relevant, where the Republic bears only the responsibility, where the Court of Auditors then criticises, there large economic package is tied up, there is large investment in billions, there is large installation, there is great emphasis, there is great emphasis, there are summaries in hand with comparatively, Mr Heinzl, low employment effect. I am immediately in favour of most of these billions being invested in meaningful local transport projects, in the expansion of the rail, where it is concerned, between, for example, Vienna – Bratislava, where it is about links, for example Linz – Budweis, where it is about finally having a sensible timetable between Linz and Graz, which also ensures reasonable travel time on the track. I'll be right there with you. As soon as I take part of these billions into hand, just, Mr Heinzl, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, please do not agree that billions are being used to build tunnel tubes, for example, which are not accepted. Contrary to the government's statement that it will only build the Brenner Base Tunnel if there are the transport policy frameworks in the direction of relocation, that is, if the EU adopts road cost guidelines that drive the shift from road to rail financially, that it only dares and risks this billion investment under these conditions, now with this budget, with this infrastructure budget for the first time leaves this government declaration. They urge us, as it were, into an out-of-budget debt at ÖBB, which will drive the company ÖBB into bankruptcy as a whole if we do not return to the budget in time. And the budget injection is, as I said, a mortgage for the future. This is exactly what the Minister of Finance wants to exclude. Please, he's totally schizophrenic in his argument. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State is no longer here, he may still be able to make this clear to him. We are immediately in favour of taking money in order to provide the donors with more attractive transport connections. We know exactly that 19 percent the autopneders immediately change to train, bus and tram when it becomes more attractive. The budget also has approaches to do so, I don't hide it. There is €50 million more for the local transport sector, but at the same time probably the countries will delete a little. Only: You really don't want to clear up here, but you knock. This is a potential that is driving us forward, which will also save people costs, so to speak, which will relieve people in the crisis a little of normal costs, thus reducing their mobility by 50 percent. We should invest there – and not in these billions of projects, which ultimately also rob you on the government bank of the money you urgently need in your areas in order to guarantee people a real future. I am not talking about the broadband investments that will be necessary, I am not talking about the thermal renovation that we have spent at least 100 million. That's 0.5 percent of these 20 billion you want to consume in the infrastructure, especially in motorway construction. Mrs Innenminister, Minister for Health, an appeal to you, would you remember at last in the Council of Ministers: A billion is more effective in your field than in the construction area for tunnel tubes or motorways, which bring us only more transit into the country! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16539	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16560	Ladies and gentlemen! I believe it is a matter of ensuring social networks, and it is a matter of introducing measures that safeguard or create jobs. Such measures are investments in building and investing in infrastructure. To this end, Mrs Moser, I can only tell you that there are jobs for 50 000 people at the ÖBB and also at the ASFINAG, which are thus secured. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's 0.5 percent of these 20 billion!]] These investments will safeguard or increase jobs. An important impulse, which is set by the Federal Government, is already the thermal renovation. In accordance with this plan of action, with these additional €100 million, which will be made available for this purpose, half will go into private housing and half into enterprises. These measures benefit those people who live in these apartments, who have improved housing quality with lower energy costs, so that eventually more money is available for consumption, and, of course, construction and construction sectors, where many jobs are created and secured. This is a step in the right direction, and the Minister for Economic Affairs has also said today that a run on this thermal renovation is taking place. I think it is important that this is also more summarized and formulated in the budget accompanying laws. The reduction of energy consumption in buildings is important, but it is also important that the building renovation does not go at the expense of the new building. In these times of crisis, the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft also relies on economic measures. Annual investments are made by hundreds of millions, it is put into maintenance and new construction. I am particularly pleased that in my district, in the Donaustadt, a modern educational district, two schools are being rebuilt, several federal schools are being built. On the one hand, there will be two school buildings at one location. Recently, the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of the gymnasium in Bernoullistraße and at the same time for the new construction of the tourism schools “Hertha Firnberg” were held. This corresponds to the needs of the students very much and optimally. On the other hand, last week the groundbreaking for the AHS at Contiweg was also held. By 2010, 38 classes for 1,000 students will be built, finally solving the school room problem. More qualified training places and the most modern space will be provided to young people in our district. Investment in schools, in education in 21 and 22. District means more schooling, more training places, and overall it is also investment in the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16597	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16618	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that we are in a crisis and therefore in times that are anything but ordinary. This is, of course, reflected in this budget. Therefore, as Minister of Finance Pröll did yesterday, this budget cannot only be the usual framework of government planning and administration, but it must claim to be the foundation of our future, the basis and the starting point of our lasting economic recovery. Of course, education, science and research also belong to the foundation of our future. This is taken into account by this budget. It turns out that education, science and research are among the priorities in government work, for which more money is now made available. As Minister of Finance Pröll stressed yesterday in his budget speech, it is therefore clearly investing in education, science and research because investment in the intellectual and creative potential of our country is the indispensable “fuel” that is driving our economy. Accordingly, there is a significant increase in the number of universities, colleges and research. From 2010 to 2012, universities receive more than €500 million per year than 2008. That's about €1.6 billion for the entire service agreement period from 2010 to 2012. This corresponds to an increase of 16 to 17 percent. However, it is particularly important that the funds are made available for the collective agreement. In the field of technical colleges, the increase in the funding of study places promised by the Minister of Science and the then Minister of Finance Molterer in autumn 2008 will be implemented by an average of 13.7 percent. In the field of research, excellence has been ensured in recent years. For example, the FWF receives €160 million annually by 2013. This also meets the long-term wish of the FWF for medium-term planning security. Hannes Androsch once wished for a multi-year research budget in an APA report of 29. On 1 October 2008 it was agreed that research should be carried out on the basis of: It's not a sausage stand. It is therefore necessary to be able to plan over a few years. – This is now possible for the FWF. He will receive an annual €160 million from the Science Department until 2013 and can plan accordingly. Mr Pröll, Minister of Finance, pointed out yesterday in his budget speech: “Federal research and development expenditure is rising from €2.22 billion in 2008 to €2.56 billion in 2009 and €2.78 billion in 2010. It is thus ensured that the research and development ratio, which was 2.54 percent of GDP in 2008, can also achieve the policy target of 3 percent by 2010.’ – Quotes. Minister of Finance Pröll also said: “With this budget we present ourselves to the present and look... into the future.” – Quotes. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for having presented this budget with a good roadmap for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16695	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16716	Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As the area of thermal rehabilitation has been addressed, I would like to make a brief comment on this. Fortunately, the environmental budget increases from around €530 million in this year to €825 million, a plus of €290 million, which is correct and necessary, because climate protection has absolute priority. I was at the EU Environment Council in Prague a few days ago. Once again, the figures and international studies were presented, namely how the climate changes and what consequences we are expected to face – in Europe, in certain areas, and in the world as a whole. These are dramatic consequences: partly for regions of southern Europe up to far into the Balkans, but also extreme shifts in all parts. We're not spared either. This is occasionally done by saying: Well, if it gets a bit warmer, it doesn't do anything! – This is not the case because there are extreme shifts: Strong rain events, floods, droughts, and, and, and. Without drawing the devil on the wall, I'll tell you: It is a command of the hour to do something! This environmental budget takes account of it in many areas, not only of the Minister for the Environment, but also of the need for all to contribute to it. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Therefore, you also need to see the area of thermal renovation. I'll just add: It is well-known to you that the large resources allocated to the housing sector in the national budgets, The area of housing development is located where the countries are called – and do so – to promote the renovation, rather away from the new construction and towards renovation, because we no longer need such housing. The federal states have committed themselves to this. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: The Court of Auditors has noted exactly the opposite!]] What we wanted to do on the part of the Federal Government was to give an additional impetus in both respects: to make climate protection effective, on the one hand, and now, on the other, to provide impetus for economic activity in economically difficult times, which is directly effective for the construction industry in particular. I can tell you: We've started this action. It is €100 million as you mentioned, €50 million for private households and €50 million for businesses. We've got this on 14th. April, i.e. about a week ago, started. We currently have more than 500 applications from the private sector – today's state of play – and more than 60 applications from the business sector. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Little, very little!]] That is to say, there is enormous interest; which is good because we promise an investment of €650 million of these €100 million – a huge boost right now for the construction industry – plus a job volume of about 7,000 employees. That's what we've secured and created. [[Call the Greens: Very well done!]] We think this is a right measure. It would be always more enjoyable if there were more money; but we will look at this measure and also very much assess in what direction it is going. I would like to point out that we have consciously focused not only on the structural renovation – thermal insulation, window exchange – but also on, for example, a change of boiler systems: towards wood heating, towards pellet heating and, and, and,. This really means cost saving for the population. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The remaining environmental budget takes into account by taking climate action to re-establish the climate and energy funds, to expand the JI/CDM programme to allow certificate trading to invest in order to create investment opportunities abroad for Austrian companies, and, and, and. Without energy saving and energy efficiency, however, it will not be possible. We have great climate change targets by 2020. They know that 20 percent more renewable energy means 34 percent renewable energy for Austria. We, Mr Mitterlehner, and I, have recently started the discussion process on the development of the overall energy strategy for Austria. We do not want to do this in the silent chamber, but we are now starting a discussion process in which the countries, NGOs, stakeholders, the social partners et cetera are involved in developing a comprehensive energy strategy at a broad level over the course of this year. This is about how we implement renewable energy, hydropower, wind energy, solar energy and biomass. It is therefore also important that we have funds in the agricultural budget. Both of my areas of responsibility are: Investments are intended to help to protect climate, the environment, and funds are intended to serve an investment-ready innovative agricultural economy. We must save massively in the administration, in the departments of my ministry. I would like to thank my officials because they are willing to go along with this very ambitious path of savings, in order to do more for investment and economic recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16797	Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16818	Mr President. Minister! The Minister, Mr Berlakovich, has also told us again what we need to take over all the money and spend on what objectives we have and what indispensable expenditure is ahead of the Austrian state. Like most previous speakers, however, Minister Berlakovich has also lost no word about how this is to be counter-financed in the medium and long term. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Yes, I said: save!]] That's the big question. I hear a word over and over again, it says, we will save it, we are making an administrative reform, then there may be some tax ideas of some political groups, but that is it. One thing is certain: With an administrative reform, we will not overcome these budgetary difficulties. We will need to think about what the state can pay for what it has to do. In other words, we have to ask in every single task – and I totally miss it – both in the discussion and in the budget: Is this something that is in the interest of the population – or is it an issue or activity that is in the interest of individuals who have established good relationship networks? Or is it even something that is done only because it has always been done that way? If we did, we would come to something that Mrs Cortolecis-Schlager would call in her division Zero-Budgeting, then we would question every single issue and find billions at once! I would perhaps like to do this with you on the basis of a booklet, because that is also my agenda, namely subdivided 12 out. Let us open this booklet and see how many things are contained in it that are absolutely necessary in the interests of the citizen, the people, and how many that do not apply! Let's start with the outside representations: Austria has 87 embassies, of which 84 are abroad, the rest is in Vienna. We have these 84 foreign embassies in countries such as Cuba, Nigeria, Senegal, Zimbabwe, as well as the Holy See, and in many other countries. Messages are an institution from the 18th century. In the 19th century, from a time when you had to ride the rider or the post-coach to other countries in order to represent his positions there – and therefore needed months or years to do so. No one has asked whether and to what extent we need it. Apart from the countries I mentioned, where the interests of Austria are ending up, there is also a message in every single European country and, of course, in every EU country, according to the rules of the 18. ==References== – Question: Do we need that? Or would we not need modern communications offices in individual countries, in individual important countries, and that is one tenth of the money?- Oh, my God! No one has asked this question. We speak here in the chapter breakdown 12 from 400 to 430 million €, depending on which year you take. If we approach the outside representations, we could already move around €100 million. [[Abg. Ing. Schools: Do you want to lock them up?]] But that's not all, I'd like to present a few scumbags from these issues in the book 12. For example, we give for the UN mission UNIFIL, that is, “United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon”, that is, temporary forces. But this mission, I believe, has been successful for 36 years, doing nothing there. If there are real conflicts there, they will either be bombarded or take the flight; they have not prevented any conflict and no dead! They sit there in great strength and with millions of effort. We must therefore show interest and commitment and pay for it now, in the year of the savings budget, € 4.6 million! But we are not only paying there, we are also paying the United Nations Mission for the referendum in Western Sahara. It will be discussed for 31 years, it has never been done before. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] Morocco has made it clear that there will never be this referendum. Nevertheless, each year we pay the amount of – it is little – € 280 000 for this mission. But we also pay for the operation of the United Nations in the Côte d’Ivoire, or for the United Nations Stabilisation Mission in Haiti – I do not know if you know anything about it. But we also pay for the United Nations observer mission in Liberia. I don't know what exactly we're watching there; it's amounts in the order of € 2 to € 3 million a year! I could now continue this list – if there was no red lamb here. I could also take our own list, namely the list of federal legislation, if I am unattended, say National Council. In this case too, we would wonder what positions are in it. And I could ask the question whether we will use these €1.32 billion a year, which we spend on development aid – this is of course not under the term “development aid”, but in the sense of colleague Cortolezis-Schlager, under the term Official Development Aid – to use or use meaningfully and with a recognizable benefit! [[Abg. Bayr: Assistance, not Aid!]] All these questions we should really ask ourselves in the context of the detailed discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16927	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16948	High house! I'll hold on to this. We're making debts like never before. However, we do not make these debts because we invest in meaningful future projects, but: More than 90 percent of these debts, which are made, go to the maintenance of the administrative equipment; they are spent because the government is not able to put the union into its barriers; because it is not prepared to do the homework – and is not at all ready to finally take up the administrative reform! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The government only makes policy for its own clients – and those people you believe will not choose you are no matter what. That is the problem of this government. There are two parties here who are diametrically opposed to each other in terms of their economic and social policy orientation. And these two parties are bound to a cart in this untold “great” coalition, but not in the front, but on the opposite side. The fact that nothing goes on is obvious. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Now it is also clear to me why Jörg Haider has always warned of this “great” coalition. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: But it took you a long time to get there!]] – I wasn’t so clear at the time. He has always said that this great coalition must be prevented under all circumstances. - Now I know why. When I look at the budget, I see why: This budget is only so proud of courage and is in no way adapted to this crisis! This “champfansage to the crisis” is not a battle attempt, it is a cramp! [[Abg. Singer: Is fight not far right?- Oh, my God!]] It is a coalition cramp, it is also not a “roadmap for the future”. It is more of a mistake, a mistake of mutual aggression. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] If two “partners” – under quotation marks – come together, but don’t succeed each other, stand up for each other, and look forward to the bit when the other person stumbles over how we have seen this with the Minister of Education – when two such partners get together, you can’t expect anything! That's why: If we do not want taxpayers for this great Koa, Coali, for this great disaster [[Cheerfulness in the hall.]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'm saying it again, because you didn't understand it back there: If you do not want taxpayers to pay for this great disaster, for this major coalitional marital crisis – so that you can understand it too – then I ask you to: Stop your blocking measures and work together on the future of this country! That's the only way we'll get on with it. If Mr. Felder is right – he writes today in the newspaper that we are already at a minimum of 3 percent, a week ago it was 2.7 percent – if he is right, then it will be time that You'll be together, settle your disputes and finally work for this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17050	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17071	Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know if you remember yesterday's budget speech by the Minister of Finance. He presented us with a record deficit. It is already surprising how it goes about relatively superficially on the subject of property tax and says that there is something like a tax justice in Austria. Let us take a look at the “tax justice” of the ÖVP: An employee who earns €50,000 gross annually pays more than 40 percent of taxes in Austria; a saver pays at 50,000 interest rates – which is relatively much – still 25 percent tax; someone who manages interest income from assets in a private foundation pays 12.5 percent tax; and those who inherit or speculate with shares and gain profits pay zero percent tax! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mrs Bundesminister, this means: Whoever works, pays in Austria, who saves a little bit, also pays taxes, and who lets the money work for himself does not pay taxes. – That’s how it looks with you and the ÖVP with the “tax justice”! The best excuse is the one with the “middle ”; it is absurd. Today, colleague Tamandl shot down the bird, saying that the richest 10 percent were the middle class. [[Call the Greens: A vulture!]] I don't know if this is a semantic or a mathematical confusion, but the top 10 percent will always be the top and never the middle! What the ÖVP is looking over: There is no medium-sized property distribution. The richest 1 percent owns one third of all assets and the richest 10 percent owns two thirds of all assets. There is no middle class, ladies and gentlemen. Push Therefore, you do not want to protect the small ones if you want to protect the big and thick fish in this Republic! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The most curious thing is if you conjure up social peace in connection with the asset tax debate; then it becomes cynical. The social peace is threatened if the wealth is increasingly unevenly distributed in this country – it threatens social peace and not the debate on wealth tax! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Very right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the Republic can no longer fulfil central core tasks – and here I come to my topic – as in the rule of law, then it will be bitter. The Minister of Justice has honoured us and, although there are dramatic savings, has spoken to us for just two minutes and ten seconds, then she has turned out again. The staff representatives are probably waiting outside and hopefully will present an uprising to them. Then it becomes sad, because saving the rule of law is particularly dangerous. Why? – Those who can afford lawyers always come to their right; those who have 100 million cash or in the account in Liechtenstein always save themselves the prison; but the rule of law must be there for the little ones! [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: The rule of law must be there for everyone!]] And if you save the rule of law, you save the little ones. A few examples: The increase in court fees hits the little ones harder. If, because of the lack of justice of the day of office, the little ones do not work, then it is the small ones; if the trade unions cannot take over the authorities – because they have to send away every second one; that is the reality – then it meets the little ones. If, during the visit, the hour costs 42 € in a divorce procedure, then the little ones do not have the ability to afford it and don't see their children! Ladies and gentlemen! Saving the rule of law is socially irrational! In this sense, I would like to see a great deal of success in the legal representation of staff, because they have announced that they will not be allowed to do so. I hope that they will still give the Minister of Justice a proper opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17192	Mrs Bayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17214	Ladies and gentlemen! The financial crisis affects politics, public debate, reporting and the budget. This financial crisis has long since not only been taking place in the glass palaces of the international financial metropolises, but has now reached the corrugated slums and the clay houses in dry fields, because raw materials prices are falling and there is less and less direct and indirect investment of rich countries in poor countries. Also due to the fact that food prices have fallen a little since the summer of last year, but are still moving at a very high level, poor people on earth, namely about 1 million poor people who have to live from less than the equivalent of 1 US dollar a day, and about 950 million people who starve daily are affected by this financial crisis, are far more extreme than we do. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: A billion!]] Not only because of this, but also because we have entered into international commitments – by the way, ODA means Official Development Assistance, not “Aid” – that is, by 2010 0.51 percent of gross national income and then 0.7 percent of gross national income by 2015 is indeed very disappointing. I would have expected that the increases in the foreign policy budget could be used precisely in this area and really in our bilateral development policy. I would remind you that in 2003, the establishment of the Austrian Development Agency – that is the agency through which we deal with our bilateral development cooperation – was done, among other things, because it was assumed that we will have much more money in the future, so that we will need quite different structures in order to ‘deliver’ this much money. – Unfortunately, there is no longer any mention of this much money, and for me it is slowly the question of the relationship between this structure and this budget. [[Call to the BZÖ:EU agreements are presented, Mrs Colleague!]] However, I would like to note positively that there is a fixed allocation of the foreign disaster fund. That's really fine and welcome. I also take it with interest from this discussion that the foreign spokesperson of the FPÖ calls into question all the instruments of foreign policy and prefers to save them away or abolish them. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Go, please!]] Let me also come to the environment, where the budget question is, above all, dealt with in the Environmental Promotion Act. In this law, we have very effective and very useful instruments in itself, as we can really save massive greenhouse gases, which can improve air quality and create many jobs with direct environmental promotions, on the one hand, with relatively low use of resources. This is also the reason why, in the Coalition Agreement – unfortunately, the Minister for Agriculture is already gone – we have also taken it up that we want to remove this backpack of applications that exist there. It is a pity that this more money is not included in the budget accompanying law, is not included in the figures. What is already happening – but I also have to say that I have to look for a long time – are the 100 million € for thermal rehabilitation. They are distributed to five accompanying books – in fact well hidden. You really have to be either detectively highly talented or have good consultants and consultants to find it. And precisely because they are so difficult to find and because I think we should really secure them and clarify them, that they will not then be spent for anything else or that money from these 100 million of other pots comes, we should actually write these 100 million € into the budget accompanying law fixed so; as it would be expected. By the way, I believe that we will not necessarily be faced with the challenge of creating jobs, of improving the quality of the environment and of making our society sustainable when it comes to implementing environmental policy. And that's the more exciting challenge than deciding on a budget. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17280	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17301	Mr President. Ministers! Minister! High house! There are already 124 speakers on the budget. Why? - Because it's about a lot. The figures set out how we will be able to find out in the next few years how much one or the other has in the store, which job can be saved. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is so important that the budget points in the right direction. That is why it is so important that the budget of Minister of Finance Pröll is designed to combat the crisis. What does that mean? – Fight for every job, fight for every social benefit, fight for our prosperity. And, as you have criticised many times today, the drop of poverty is higher debt. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if you accuse us of making too many debts, I must say: Even worse would it be if you blamed us for having done too little. It's clear – and that's probably our goal: The debt needs to be reduced quickly. We don't want to leave our anchors a huge debt backpack. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Ing. Lugar, you miss courage in the budget? – This budget shows courage! [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: How do you define courage?]] In fact, the Minister of Finance is not getting additional funds through new taxes; that would be easy. Heritage tax keyword: We seniors reject the reintroduction of inheritance and gift tax, with clear arguments. Why should the anchor for the granny's apartment, which has already paid taxes before, pay once again taxes? – That is totally inconspicuous! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Tag ‘Rail Tax’: Please don't be deceived! What looks forward to a “rich tax” is a tough property and property tax. [[Abg. Singer: I say yes!]] That's the wrong way. [[Abg. Grosz: Exactly! It's already been broken in everywhere!]] The garden in the green, all private property, all this would come into the sight of the financial. Ladies and gentlemen! This budget also gives security, especially for older people. It was said to you: The state pensions are safe! As early as November 2008, pensions were increased disproportionately. The aim was to strengthen the purchasing power. It's financed. In 2009, a total of € 8.4 billion is available from the budget. This year the state will pay significantly more to the pensions, namely about € 700 million more. As criticism has come mainly from the Greens, care would not be a topic in the budget: Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that this year the state spends €1.8 billion on care. This is significantly more than 2008 and is €200 million more. Who would rather hear it in Schilling: By 2.7 billion Schilling, the state spends more on care than in the previous year. This is important to us and proves: This state budget brings secure pensions, sustainable care and no one is left in the rain. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17395	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17414	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Aubauer mentioned the fight for prosperity. An essential element of prosperity is that people can also be healthy and that there is a funding basis for our solidary health system. The Federal Government under Chancellor Werner Faymann is clearly and unmistakably committed to a sustainable financial security of our health system. What has happened to this budget? – In addition to the funding of hospitals, for the first time in our budget chapter for the years 2009 and 2010 you will find expenses to ensure the financing of social health insurance. In 2009 – I said it yesterday – € 45 million as short-term bridge aid and € 100 million in 2010. In addition, we have provided € 450 million to the local health phone by relinquishing the federal government. In 2009, €42 million came from the funds of the compensation fund into the cash register, and the cover of VAT amounts to €97 million. Overall – and this is particularly important – the Federal Government is spending more than €730 million on financial security of health insurance in the interest of 8 million insured persons in our country. I believe that this, ladies and gentlemen, is very important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are entering a mixed financing system. This is a guarantee for the future, because one is quite clear: Only a solidary financing structure can ensure health care in a customary way in the future. In the field of health insurance, which is included in the budget accompanying law, a health insurance fund is now being set up. This health insurance fund is an additional control instrument for the Federal Government in the field of social health insurance. In doing so, we assume joint responsibility, health ministers and finance ministers so that the relevant objectives can be agreed with the local health telephone; Objectives to ensure that the budget resources provided are used in the interests of insured persons, in particular when it comes to integrated supply, improving quality and cross-sectoral seam management. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government is creating an instrument for controlling and directing the financing of the local health telephone. People rightly expect the Federal Government – and this is what you expect from the Federal Minister for Health – to make every effort to ensure that, at the highest level, a well-functioning and financially sound health care can be ensured, across the board. This is only possible if we are able to cooperate closely with all the parties involved. I've been able to do that all the time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We from the Federal Government are obliged to pay contributions and taxpayers for caution. First of all, we all need optimal health care at a high level. Secondly, we need transparency and responsibility in the use of the contribution and tax millions. We do not know today how the budgetary commitments of the budget will develop in the direction we are now taking. All the more so, we are interested in care, control and evaluation in all steps – these are our important principles of action. I invite you to take on this double responsibility, on the one hand, of the self-administrative officials in social security institutions and on the other hand the Federal Government, in the interests of citizens and to go this open path across all parties and stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17490	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17513	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The Federal Chancellor has today mentioned a number concerning the unemployed: He meant it was 252,000 at the moment. – You have to correct this number a little, as likely the entire budget. If you count on those who place their time in more or less meaningful courses, that is 335,000; that is, 80,000 more. A good sum. But there it is as it passes through the budget: You're starting from wrong numbers! I think that this budget, which is based on figures last year, is now back, because the economic data of relevant experts say something quite different. But that's a story. The other story is: What statements are there in this budget, especially for the unemployed, for those who are in short-term employment? - Not at all. The only one would have been a tax reform, but the tax reform that has recently been decided here is nothing but a better balance of inflation for those concerned. Managers like Ötsch et cetera, on the other hand, register more than one million wastes. What do you say, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and you, Minister of Finance, those unemployed and those short-time workers who have to live on the lowest income if you, on the other hand, throw out the money with both hands and overshadow highly paid management? [[Abg. Grosz: They're not here!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The solution comes naturally from the SPÖ. The Styrian Member of Parliament Herbs, his sign Federal Managing Director – this is to be read in today’s or tomorrow’s issue of the “news”: SPÖ and Werner Faymann think more widely about just distribution for the future. Far more! Thank you, my lady. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also the statement from the table that it is not about house builders, but only about the millionaires. It's much wider! Of course, the “Mur-Mao-Tse-tung” is sent out, Franz Voves – which can be read on the front page in the “News” – says stone and clear: As soon as the budget is available, we will automatically discuss a fairer tax system. We'll need more tax revenue. So, now I'm done with you from SPÖ once. Now to the ÖVP: If you go out here and say that we are insecure the employees of the Raiffeisen Group, the simple employees on the switches et cetera, I must say: Such a fool! You know very well that's not true. If we make the sensible proposal that a bank focus on its core business and thus secure the jobs of its employees, not to speculate itself in connection with media groups, then this is a reasonable statement – I tell you too! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A few words on the speech of “Finanzpahrer” Pröll – the last pages of his budget speech are really, really great. [[Abg. Silhavy: We are in Parliament and not in the beer tent!]] It says: “... this time does not distinguish between government and opposition. It only distinguishes between right and wrong.” – So what’s right, says the government – and what the opposition says is wrong from home anyway. By the way, this has also been clearly explained by Federal Minister Hahn here today, so to speak, by putting up the opposition as an idiot – they can't do anything anyway. Let's stick together, says Mr Pröll. – It is SPÖ and ÖVP that block and postpone all the ideas and requests of the opposition in the committees. So let's stick together – I'll take you by the word! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Salvishly the last sentences of the budget speech – I have allowed myself to comment on it a little bit –: [[Abg. Grosz: Very nice!]] With a calm hand and firm will, Josef Pröll fills the cash registers. With the expertise and understanding of the house, which no one found with him, with the sense of the necessary woman forging did not bind him. Feeling also for the possible, and that is the sad, responsibility for the whole also – in front of Raiffeisen is Pröll on the belly. I recommend it, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17614	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17635	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the ministerial bench! High house! In the health budget, €865.2 million were estimated in 2009, €993 million in 2010 – committed to a structural reform of the cash registers. Now I would be interested in what this structural reform should look like. The Minister strongly rejects a reform of the administrative system. If this structural reform of the funds then means that there should be a deterioration of medical care or a deterioration of medical care, then we cannot agree with it, because that is the wrong way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] € 45 million from the 2009 budget will be distributed to health insurance companies as emergency aid. Interesting in this case is the distribution key. 33 million €, the lion's share, is given to the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, the rest being divided among the other deficient health insurance funds. And the three health insurance companies that have balanced – Upper Austria, Salzburg and Vorarlberg – do not get anything. That means as much as being balanced and well balanced, one is still punished. [[Abg. Huber: scandalous!]] It is certain that these health insurance funds will not be able to continue and need to be supported. Only it is difficult to understand that this must be using € 145 million from the taxpayer. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] We certainly have the best health system, but there are also improvements in the best health system. We are thinking, for example, of an organisation of child medicine, of prevention of childhood diseases, psychological care in schools or of further training of the school doctors. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or we also think of including clinical-psychological treatment in the ASVG. But for these changes, we will surely miss these € 145 million. I would now like to mention animal welfare as the only one today, because animal welfare is not spoken of, nor is it in the budget; it is not there. I would have liked to know how much is planned for animal welfare. One example: animal transport. For the control of animal transport, money is necessary in order to be able to exercise it consistently. Ladies and gentlemen, we are disappointed by this budget, which means the highest standstill for health and animal welfare – and in no way progress.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17691	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17712	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I do not wish to go into this kind of brief remarks or words presented in the form of Gstanzln at this advanced hour, but I would like to try to ask you again a little more fundamental, to ask us all what actually was presented here yesterday by the Minister of Finance. I still remember the criticism of the budget speech of the ex-Finanzminister Grasser. Tenor was here in this house at the time: Except for words not really substance! Ladies and gentlemen, it is very sad, because we were quite used to by Federal Minister Pröll in other fields that he is willing to provide analyses as well. I'm seriously asking you: Has he submitted this analysis? How should a Minister of Finance develop a solid budget if he does not first present a really good analysis, presenting an analysis that answers exactly the questions he raises? He is right to say that it is difficult to make a budget in the crisis. No question, I'm totally with him. It is not understandable why a double budget is now being presented. Minister of Finance Pröll says that the researchers, the experts and experts have said something quite different half a year ago than now. – Please, what will you say in half a year, in three quarters, in one and a half years? So from this point of view, that is not consistent for me at this point. And I have to tell you that Pröll's economic commitment is also shocking to me, in so far as he does not even put on the table what has happened within the EIA for decades, namely a clear commitment to a social-ecological market economy, which is really social, which must be social in the crisis, which is also ecologically specific. That as an ex-environmental minister! That too, I have to tell you honestly, is totally missing. When analysing the crisis, I really found strangers, which goes according to the motto: Hold the thief! It's always all the other faults. Federal Minister Pröll, of course, rightly speaks of the banking problems of the USA, but at the same time says that the deregulation was not the cause. Who deregulated the banks in the United States? – The Reagans in the 1980s! At that time, this economic strategy began the deregulation of the system that has now slid into the crisis. In his speech, Minister of Finance Pröll did not quote any international economists. If he had done so, he would have had some of these facts, which were in the trade presse and can also be rereadable everywhere, also reasons and can represent. So this is very disappointing for me, I have to say honestly, because otherwise I have always perceived and appreciated Minister Pröll in the field of environmental policy as a very critical interlocutor. It is sad to note what Pröll writes about unemployment in this speech: “Unemployment will rise significantly – whatever we do.” – Whatever we do! Minister Hundstorfer can juggle around here with a few numbers. Without analysis, the Minister of Finance claims that nothing is going on anyway. – I think that is a very bad witness to politics. It would have been interesting, for example, to cut down the budget, to reduce all the incentives to their labour market relevance, to their labour market efficiency. That's what we want. For example, environmental investment measures are primarily labour-intensive. Mr Moser, for example, referred to local transport – just one example. The thermal rehabilitation, similar examples. So a whole palette. Finally, another point that is particularly disturbing to me. Pröll has spoken of two screws where you can turn: Income and expenditure. He was right to talk about efficiency in expenditure. With regard to revenue, he refuses any asset taxation – and we think that is grossly negligent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17779	The next item is Mrs Oberhauser's speech. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17801	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Somehow I expect that in the next days, the Third President of the National Council will carry a sign with the logo “Raiffeisen” instead of the sign on which his homepage is to be read. Somehow, I think, the FPÖ is looking for a sponsor, because as many free advertisements for raiffeisen as I heard today in the debate on the budget. So I'm not sure there's anything in the bush. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Now to the health budget to which I would like to speak. It is perfectly clear and it is such a Déjà-vu experience from the last budget debate: The opposition says it's too little or it's misdistributed. The government parties say that it is perhaps too little, but it is properly distributed. . I believe that the health budget negotiated by our Minister Stöger is one that will give people security over the next few years, ensuring that social health insurance will continue to exist in the way it currently exists. It is also clear that we believe from the SPÖ that there will continue to be no restraints and no increases due to this budget. This means that in times of crisis where people, as I believe, fear nothing more than the loss of their jobs and, on the other hand, that they may be ill and dependent on the health system, we give safety to people on this issue. There is a clear commitment by the Federal Government to self-management in social security. The cash fund, which Minister Stöger has already mentioned, is worth €100 million, is the money that the taxpayer or the Federal Government has received. However, it has succeeded in ensuring that these funds continue to be settled in the hands of social security. That is, self-management will continue to exist in the form. This has always been a major concern for social democracy. First, colleague Aubauer said that one of the previous speakers said that the care budget did not happen. – The care budget has occurred. Allow me, however, a slight criticism. I believe that the health budget of the Minister Stöger is so good that in his budget speech, the Minister of Finance did not need to assign the care budget, which is actually part of the place of the colleague Hundstorfer, to the colleague Stöger in his budget speech. That wouldn't have been necessary. The budget is so well negotiated. I am also particularly pleased that the Minister of Finance has also noted with the decision to put 100 million tax money into the system in the beginning of 2010 that the burdens introduced by Schwarz-Blau have actually led the health insurance companies to stand where they stand today, that he has taken a first step back on these measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17855	The next item is the speech by Mr Donabauer. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17876	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, the budget debate is always a very moving time. Nevertheless, some considerations have to be taken into account. It is not to be expected that an opposition will go forward and a government will make or praise compliments or knock on its shoulder – no one is expecting it, neither at the first reading nor at the general debate. But what you expect, even at first reading, is materiality, and they have not fulfilled some opposition parties in any way today. Ladies and gentlemen, wherever you may sit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] – Why feel You're talking to me? Are you one of them, too? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Excuse me, what you've given here, has an under-average entertainment value. I can tell you that. You can get better from today, and you'll be taken seriously. Because one thing is clear when a partyer gives a speech here that people on TV screens comment on as follows: This is, in fact, a point for Parliament, then please do not make any points. And if this so-called party president perhaps wants to make a special action here, then he should think of his teachers, they have been better able to do that, because they have shown and also made clear proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we should not downgrade parliamentarianism. And if a Mr. Strache, who was hardly here except for his own great performance, which he did not succeed in, has again performed today as a free agent for raiffeisen, I think he can continue the activity calmly, no question. However, one thing is clear: Raiffeisen does not need it and will not kneel down from such a stretch or fall into his hands. And if he and some others of you have believed today, they now have to be devious of what Raiffeisen or other banks are doing, because they are currently having certain problems in the East, of course, then you also say, dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, that in recent years, even decades there have also been very good connections and, because of these East businesses, many businesses have been built and many jobs have been secured. That's what I said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They can not only make themselves here and slander against everything, but also do not make a single useful proposal and do not bring themselves into any way productive and constructive. I think you'll have to think about yourself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] What's the matter? – It is a matter of living in no easy time. It is a matter of different expectations for each budget speech. The budget speech yesterday and also the opinion of the Federal Chancellor today and of Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance today were present, as I mean. They have said very clearly and have shown where the problems lie. I expect in the next few weeks and months that much of what is feared worldwide will not come. I expect that our membership of the European Union will also manifest a strong Europe as such and that Europe will be able to absorb much of this crisis. I expect the euro to continue to be able to absorb many turbulences in the money and financial markets in its function. Let's imagine what it would be like if it weren't. Let us imagine that our beautiful country of Austria would be a country with no European connection, with no participation in the euro. I'd say it would be hot and difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the truth. And you don't have to be angry at all. I may be a little clear, not a question. I can tell you that you are dealing with this budget! We have tried to get the government to start economic development, taking into account all the objectives contained in the government programmes. We have tried to put in place labour market stabilisation and development measures. We tried a 13th. Introduce child support. And you don't find that acknowledgment, no appreciation? What else do you expect? We have tried to obtain and offer all the great offers that Austria has in the field of education and education. We have tried to put new emphasis on research and innovation. All of this doesn't deserve recognition? I can tell you, you still have a lot to learn. You can do a lot better. Then you can expect to be taken seriously once. Wearing at present You're just going to have a conversation. Parliament has not been created for this, and the situation is too serious. I think that would be something you should take with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17944	The next item is Mrs Gartelgruber. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17965	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Representatives of the Federal Government! High house! I must regret that women's policy will also have a subordinate role in the budget of the next two years. There is a great need for action in this area. Even the Court of Auditors has recently noted that, particularly in the field of Women's promotion is under-targeted and lacks medium-term support. Innovations are completely missing. For example, funding mainly went to long-term promoters. In 2005, 26 projects and 51 new projects in 2006 had to be completely rejected. The Court of Auditors has expressed massive criticism of these circumstances. The increase in the budget of Minister Heinisch-Hosek by €1.24 million is therefore of little use if only existing measures are supported. If the Minister of Finance said yesterday in his budget speech, I quote: “No one in Austria should be disadvantaged because of his gender,” I would like to remind you that this is also applicable to women. And if the so-called Gender Budgeting helps us, I doubt. The objective of creating a gender-sensitive and gender-friendly household is honorable, but will certainly not be possible in practice. Even if revenue and expenditure for women and men succeed in identifying the extent to which priorities and resources can actually be redistributed, there is a lack of the right basis for this. And finally, it's going to be. Gender budgeting is again one of the abstract measures that, although discussed and highly praised in academic forums, will ultimately have no impact on women in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also see a similar picture in family policy. With the change of family policy to business agendas, family policy was downgraded to the footnote. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Especially in times of high unemployment and economic stagnation, demographic and family policies would be absolutely necessary in the direction of the creation of child care facilities alone. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] The family package as part of a tax reform with a total volume of € 510 million is a real and important approach, but just a drop on the hot stone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18035	The next item is the speech by Mrs Bundesminister Mag. Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18056	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister Stöger! Mrs Marek, Secretary of State! High house! Dear guests! The guarantee of security and security in Austria are part of the priority programme in this budget. It is satisfactory for me that we have received increases both in the personnel sector and in the Sachbudget. We can thus improve the safety of the people of Austria in a very concrete way. Austria remains one of the safest countries in the world. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It has been possible for us to train 1,000 police every year. These are 5,000 police students in five years, and with a natural departure of about 800, this still means a plus of 200 per year. That is to say, at the end of this legislative period, we will have 1,000 executive officials more, and I think that is good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to ensure that our police officers are used efficiently where they are needed, we have also set up a flexipool, whose legal base The basis of this House has already been blessed; I thank you for that. With July, the Flexipool will be operational. I would like to say to the Minister of Women and the Secretary of State that this pool, in its priority, is mainly intended to compensate for the time of birth, so that those police officers who go in mother's care or those police who use father's care, are immediately replaced by flexipool assignments at their posts. I believe that this has made the police more family-friendly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have also succeeded in achieving an increase of 3.5 percent in the material effort. In other words, we can continue the renewals of equipment, which means that we continuously equip the police with the latest equipment, both in the computer and in the vehicle sector. I can also tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the construction measures in 53 police buildings – these are the key points of investment – will continue in the next two years. I think that's a good approach. Another aid is the new budgetary law, and I regret that there has not yet been much to hear in the debates on this issue. For the first time, the new budgetary law, which gives all departments a global budget, allows us to control the money specifically where we need to set priorities, that we make clear targets and that we can also effectively exploit savings potential. I hope that by doing so we can also increase the motivation of the police so that the police can do effective work and thus the security feeling of the Austrians remains a positive one. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18119	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputy Jury. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18141	Mr President. On the street – I wanted to say already: through the desert of Gobi – on the road of the harsh economy, I wonder today if your 2008 path is not somewhere on the road to give away. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: To San Fernando!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Who says that?]] I ask the two parties SPÖ and ÖVP. After the first difficulties in bringing this budget into good and quiet water, the SPÖ has taken a really bloody nose at the teachers' union of the ÖVP. The SPÖ's return carriage is now of course the call for a property tax. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: No!]] [[Abg. Riepl: Rich tax!]] This is the impact of your budget policy, and I must say that the high signs of the class struggle are again stylized. But you have not noticed that you are far from any population with this class struggle, far from the needs of the population. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, look at how the voters run away from you, not only in Carinthia, but throughout Austria! – These are the consequences of your policy. They have not yet understood that our common enemy is the international high finance and the genetically engineered food industry. You haven't recognized that yet. I am not just wasting the SPÖ today, but I also have to tease the EIA because, in its rigid attitude to allow zero structural reforms, the EIA is running a disastrous policy that, if this goes on, will tear the Republic down budgetaryly. – That once on your policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, if you take on the structural reforms, take on the reforms in the local health phone! [[Abg. Wöginger: How does it look in your community?]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: And the aliens, what about it?]] Once again to the class struggle in the SPÖ. They complain about the rich and the immoral, but in the same way you smear the state managers of the ÖBB, of the AUA executions in millions of height. What about it? Where are you the representative of the “little man ”? - You gave up that! If you are finally active, you are launching structural reforms so that the Republic of Austria can see a light on the horizon again in difficult economic times!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18250	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18271	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Allow me to say a word on parliamentary cooperation and work. They know that the football cup finale between Austria and the Wiener Neustadt is currently taking place in Wiener Neustadt. [[Abg. Shopf: How much is it?]] [[Call: 0 : 1]] I just heard: 0 : 1. For Austria. [[Abg. Riepl: For whom?]] You know that we also have representatives from Wiener Neustadt, SPÖ members Wittmann about and my person. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: He's here!]] The district of Wiener Neustadt is represented by, for example, Deputies Rädler, who is now not there, but is safe in the house, also by President Katzian. – Yes, all there, only one parliamentarian is missing, who is not Vienna Neustadter and who, as it seems, was seen on the VIP gallery of Frank Stronach, and that is that Member who today quoted the Finance Minister here for the meeting – and that is Ing. Peter Westenthaler. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is here!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who?]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Incredible!]] [[Oh, call at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP: Where is he?]] - So, please, where is he? Where's your deputy Westenthaler? - First of all. Secondly, Is this the working morale of the opposition, the BZÖ? - I guess that can't be true. [[In the case of the Greens and the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now go back to the general debate. [[Abg. May. Gässner: But now you are not making a request?- Oh, my God!]] . I am not going to make any request now, because I do not want to wait so long, I have to confess. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Can't you make the request that he stay there?]] Back to the general debate! Social security has often been the subject of today, even though the woman “Ministry of Security” is not present right now. Unemployment is not good for society, it is not youth unemployment at all, and that is why the Ministry of Social Affairs has received most of the money to combat youth unemployment. [[Abg. Riepl: Did the Westenthaler drive by car?]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is he in the VIP zone?]] – I am glad I was able to excite you. However, measures against youth unemployment alone are not decisive for the social security of young people, young adults and young people. Youths are no longer open in conurbation centres. They're being monitored, they're disrupting, they're scapegoats for everything, they're scapegoats for everything. The violence in schools is increasing, and we must not close our eyes even before the drug problem. The future does not look rosy for young people and young adults de facto. For this reason, the Greens have already called for the more frequent catalogue of measures for the social security of young people. The budget – unfortunately – confirms this criticism. Ms Marek State Secretary – You are there, thank God – you have proudly proclaimed that you are happy to be able to secure the youth organizations. I think it is the Federal Youth Promotion Act that makes the security proper and important, but not only, but also demands, and a change of law has not taken place. This means that the protection of youth organisations is at the heart of youth promotion. In the youth chapter there is otherwise not much to see. There are hardly any increases. Freedom of access for youth organisations must not be a good will but must be implemented. The Ministry must also finance this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18463	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Maier. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18484	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank my previous speaker for this information, Mr Westenthaler, who is probably currently sitting in any VIP lounge. These are two questions which we should clarify or which the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should decide on: Do we agree that Members too can be created, or do we agree that Westenthaler should stay on the football ground and not appear in Parliament anymore? [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and Greens.]] I believe that this could be an interesting discussion in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Now, of course, I would like to devote myself to the federal financial laws. - High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Consumer protection is a cross-sectional matter in many areas, in many areas of the budget, and in times of crisis, as we are experiencing today, consumers are affected in many areas. I am concerned that consumer-related advice and protection are offered. I am glad that it is possible, in particular through the new budgetary law, to take targeted action here. Mrs Fekter has already referred to the benefits of the new budgetary right. I believe that this will now give the competent Federal Ministers, at the time of the crisis, the opportunity to take decisive measures in the field of consultation and in the field of consumer support. I am thinking, in particular, of the Consumer Information Association, which has been supported by the Federal Government and is now particularly required, particularly in the area of legal protection. I only recall the discussion against AWD, but also against other fraud in the field of financial services. However, I also recall the AGES, which is responsible for food safety issues. Here, of course, we also go in the direction that we say it has to be saved, it has to be evaluated where it is possible. However, if it is no longer possible to save more, then you will also have to think about new possibilities for consumption. For one shall not be overlooked: The tasks of the AGES are increasing, and more and more controls and analyses are also to be carried out on the basis of European legal bases. We still have many areas of consultation. I only recall the debt consultations that also need appropriate funds. I would remind you of the debate on independent financial advice that is necessary in view of the crisis. And I also recall security issues, the discussion on the extension of the criminal police advisory service. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The new budgetary law gives the appropriate Federal Ministers the opportunity to take action, and they are invited to take the right measures as well. – Our support will have them!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18532	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Nice to meet you. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18554	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the government! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Ing. Westenthaler is not present, so I am all the more pleased that I can welcome other guests, namely a delegation from Albania. They are Albanian mayors here – I welcome them quite warmly in Albanian: We have always celebrated it. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[General condolences.]] Especially in times of crisis, good news is really poor, the more encouraging was the yesterday's budget speech of our Minister of Finance for the Austrians. Yes, this budget speech was even a very good news that we were able to experience in these days, because it is really a very good and encouraging news that this budget is clearly strengthening the economy, and that active labour market policy will significantly relieve people. This government is taking a lot of money into its hands and therefore a deficit in purchasing, with a single objective: to strengthen the backbone in this country and to help it vigorously. It is – and I am convinced of it; it is also legible to the figures – a well thought-out, but above all a measured budget that Minister of Finance Josef Pröll has presented to us. Crisis usually means: Just as it is, it can't go on. On the other hand: New things are not necessarily created in the context of economic and cultural normality; rather, we owe much that seems to us today as a matter of course, one crisis or another. As an example, I mention the raw material crisis. Without a raw material crisis, there would be no significant further development of alternative and renewable energies. Without the crisis of the Bush administration, there was probably no Obama election. Another example for Mr Stadler: Without Saul’s crisis, there would ultimately be no Paul’s conversion. Without Goethe’s creative crisis, there would probably be no escape to Italy and no “Italian journey. ” What do I want to tell you? [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: We don't know that!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] – Let us also take this crisis as the occasion for making necessary political priorities. The crisis as a door opener to bring fresh air to the house of Austria! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: No, thank you!]] [[Abg. Kickl: ÖVP crisis would be a bit interesting!]] Let us also see this crisis in order to demonstrate the necessary will to design it with this budget. - This government is doing that. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Had you been silent, you would have remained a philosopher!]] 2009 and 2010 we invest more money than ever before in the labour market and employment. This is ultimately socially just and economically meaningful, because the most important thing in this crisis is to prevent unemployment, especially for young people in this country, because they are the ones who are the first to be affected if they do not find a place of teaching if they find no job when they are ultimately pushed into inability. We need to set clear signs that give young people a perspective that lets them trust in the economy, and above all in the policy we are making. I would like to express my great thanks to this government as a Styrian Member. I would like to thank the government for not leaving the Voves crisis caprioles on the glue and apparently treating them as such, namely as caprioles. You have left the current reigning Styrian head of state with his medium-sized attack, with his medium-sized tax on the left, for which I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18642	Mr Dr Karlsböck spoke as the next speaker. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18664	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the bench! High house! The distribution and justice debate is our elixir, I read in a newspaper. Mr Herzegovina, the Secretary-General of the SPÖ, said. [[Call the SPÖ:Federal Managing Director!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Reserve Federal Managing Director!]] – Federal Managing Director. He also says that it is a kind of adrenaline for his party, and he wants to set up a working group on the perspective of distribution justice. In today's and yesterday's debate, I noticed that it is very important to stress that the budget has been drawn up in terms of social justice and distribution justice. All the more wonder, then, that the close-up has not been mentioned. Only colleague Oberhauser said today that there are restraints and that they may be unsocial. I would like to quote your president of the Lower Austrian Chamber of Workers, Mr Josef Staudinger, who says: ‘Self retention is contrary to the general principle that health insurance benefits must be financed regardless of the risk of illness. Self retention discriminates against poorer and sick people. – Already, the exemptions from self retention are regulated so restrictively that some people are virtually denied access to modern medical services.” – Staudinger says that, and he is right. In the context of the economic crisis, the whole has become even more dramatic. We know that the crisis has arrived fully with patients and that the current financial and economic crisis in patients has a significant impact on health. Why? - Because many patients can no longer afford to hold their own. I have come up with a lot of discussions that will not at all understand what it has with the self-retaining in itself. Let me give you an example: If today an average pensioner goes to the dentist and has to make a prosthesis there – I say consciously, has to be made – then she has to pay 1 500 € for an upper and lower jaw supply. Of these 1,500 € half will be taken over from the hospital register, which is 750 €. The other 750 € she cannot afford. What will she do? - She'll go abroad. It can do the same for the same money abroad, goes with the bill to the health insurance fund, and the health insurance fund pays the full cost. The consequence of this is a huge damage to the Republic of Austria in relation to the tax flow, and it means supporting the Hungarian economy and the local craftsmanship. That's Humbug. I claim that if we stop or pay the amount of self retention restrictively, that would even have an economic effect in this country. In the worst case, I claim, the Republic and the health insurance company pari would leave. It would definitely be no loss. You can calculate that. Mr Minister, I would ask you to order this once, because there are simply no reliable figures on it. We assume that this is a flow of approximately €200 million, which would not be necessary at all. The objective of a budgetary policy, which is socially balanced, must be to create absolutely accessible access to the best possible treatment. It must not be that today in this country, in a social republic as we are, there is a criminal tax that sick people have to pay for their basic needs, although they have a right not to do that, and are thoroughly insured. It's a classic two-class medicine we find here, a criminal tax for patients. Mr Minister, I can only appeal to you to find a solution in any form, and I can offer myself the working group that is being set up and which is likely to be very complicated as an expert. You're welcome to invite me. We have a complete concept – you can save yourself this work – we like to put it on the table. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18710	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18745	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Estimated Jacky Maier, I'm interested in the middle of every game. I'm sports interested like you. I am convinced that Westenthaler is also a sports enthusiast, but if I look in the ranks like this, I think that at present several Members are probably busy with various hobbies, but have not yet been seen in the media. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Okay: Mr Westenthaler did not apologize to me. There will be a debate on this. - All satisfied? [[Ironic cheerfulness and detonatative acclaim by representatives of FPÖ and SPÖ.]] But now to the first reading of the budget. First of all, I would like to say that, given the financial and economic crisis, it is not very useful that this Federal Government should now make a budget for two years, since it cannot be foreseen how it will continue in the future. The Minister of Finance told me this morning before the beginning of the meeting in a brief discussion that nobody actually knows how to proceed, that in case there is a second huge wave, everyone fears the worst – but hope that this does not occur. I would like to say that in terms of the crisis, a double budget is actually rather absurd. This limits the possibility of reaction. - That's one thing. If Mr Maier, who is an outstanding consumer protectionist, today praises the area of consumer protection on the green clover, I must say: Mr Maier, you didn't look at that. The funds have been cut from €3.5 million to €3 million for the next two years, and in a financial crisis the funds for debt advice are also reduced, from €90 000 to €70 000, is unimaginable for me. That would have to be extended! - But you haven't noticed that so far. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Despite the debt burden, there is no desire to reform this federal government, ladies and gentlemen. When I look at the school reform, I have to say that you have rejected a one-time chance. How do you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, want to implement a state reform if you do not already bring about an increase in the teaching obligation by two hours with the teacher union?- Oh, my God! I have to tell the trade unionists here in the SPÖ series: Solidarity, yes, and I know that the trade unions do not want to be played out against each other, but what happened there for the public service trade union, Mr Katzian, will not understand anyone in the private sector at all, and this union is ahead of you. There will no one understand that such a thing is possible in a professional group, where jobs are safe, where allowances are granted that have long since been granted in the private sector, where there is a right of service, of which employees in the private sector only dream where there is childcare – not with the others – where there are wages and salaries, of which only in the private sector can be dreamed of. That is where solidarity ceases. And I tell you, you're going to have an exit wave at the union if you continue to drive that way. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you pay half-state managers with credit ratings of €4 million, even if they are losing – like the ÖBB with €900 million – then each one increases. That's not how it's done! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Pfui!]] The people of Post and Telekom – who generate huge profits – are sent to a career center because the managers have nothing left for the people. In these semi-governmental areas, you first have to change the law of service, you have to implement an administrative reform, then people will be satisfied. You've done any chance at all! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Needle Strip Socialists!]] As a result of this financial and economic crisis, there was now a unique chance of real administrative reform. Letter You're behind your ears!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18838	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18859	Mr President. Dear Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I will now devote myself to the subject area of the Minister of the Interior, who unfortunately also left us again after she had briefly honoured us with her presence. Mrs. Fekter answered shortly after the formation of the government in the course of an interview on why the Federal Government did not find it worth the effort to settle and deal with the topic of integration in its own State Secretariat: because she was very happy to be Minister for Integration. When we got the budget figures yesterday, we looked at this great closeness and love for the integration area and checked whether this love for integration with the Minister of the Interior also expressed itself in figures. The following amazing can be found: From 2008 to 2009, the budget for integration projects in the foreign sector will be reduced from just under €900 000 to € 123 000. That is to say, this is a reduction to a ninth of the budget by the Minister for Integration, which is very much at the heart of integration. But essentially, it will create a fund for return projects of €4 million. It's new. This also shows where the priorities of the Minister for Integration lie, how much her integration is really worth, namely, in terms of budget resources. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another example: The Minister for the Interior is very much talking about integration. She says that foreigners have the most right to integrate, they should learn the national language. Among other things, a so-called integration agreement was provided for, and the funds, the contributions, which partly cover the costs of these integration and German courses, are also reduced – from 2008 to 2009, and by the way also to 2010. If you look at the funding for projects from the European Refugee Fund – these are projects where EU funds exist, but also national funds are used for projects – you will find a reduction of €7 million to around €5 million – once again a “spar potential” – under quotation marks – from €2 million by the so-called Minister of Integration at the expense of integration. Another example: The Minister for Integration has announced that a national action plan is necessary to promote integration in Austria. It has launched this National Action Plan with Pomp and Trara and has said that it should provide for measures, considerations on integration so that it finally works better. If you look at the budget of what this national action plan of the government is worth, you can see: Specific integration measures and this so-called National Action Plan are worth exactly EUR zero for the Federal Government. – This is how the integration policy of this Federal Government and the Minister for Integration looks! We can only say that we must not be surprised if so-called French conditions prevail in Austria too soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18914	Mrs Hagenhofer's next speaker is speaking. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18935	Mr President. Estimated members on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” today titles: Getting out of the crisis? State falls into debt. And it's good that the state falls into debt. [[Abg. Grosz: Yes, crash!]] Why? . This morning, our Federal Chancellor explained very precisely that in the devastating economic situation in which we are now – world economic situation, but also in the situation with us in Austria – there must be financial intervention in such a crisis. [[Abg. Grosz: But do not “fall ” into debt!]] This is a top command to give people safety and to provide some framework and relief for businesses so that employment can only be kept somehow. [[Abg. Grosz: “guilts ”! "Strips"!]] With this double budget 2009/2010, in this financial crisis, which actually came to an end in the financial world, which has been manifesting very quickly in us as a real economic crisis, the government is opposed to, in other words, that the whole does not become a social crisis. [[Abg. Grosz: What does the Lord Androsch say?]] I would like to say something that gives rise to a little hope and then confirms that the government's activities are carried on in this way: In my district, I have been told by industrial management companies in business visits, so summarized in two sentences, people notice a reduced fall speed in the order situation, a slight soil formation, and they see a little bit of a silver strip on the horizon. However, employment growth will have to be revised further downwards. This is exactly where the government is starting and intervening: labour market policy, job-sustaining measures, short-term work, social security, infrastructure and education. I'd like to say it like this: The government does not take money into its hands to combat public debt, but it takes money into its hands to fight the crisis, and that, I think, is very important for the people in our country. That's what people deserve. And companies should also be helped to climb this silver strip, so to speak, allowing jobs to continue or better secure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19012	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19033	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Our Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance has put the right signal in the crisis with this budget. I would like to congratulate you on this. In addition to the fight against unemployment and in addition to internal and external security, education, science and research are the priorities, and that is good. I'm glad because my heart beats for education. There is €600 million more for the teaching budget compared to the last estimate. There is 1 billion € more until 2013. This means more than 1 000 € per student in the next few years. Of course, there is also a plus for universities, a plus of 23 percent in 2010 compared to 2008. The colleges receive 27 percent more, the study support is 6.6 percent more, and the research is about 53 percent more. It is very important and it is particularly gratifying that planning security is now available in the field of research, by increasing the FWF by €160 million annually. Now the content of the education discussion can begin. It is about higher quality in schools, and it begins mainly with those who act, namely with educators and educators. We will improve teacher education and training. A modern, performance-oriented right of service and remuneration with higher income increases in salaries are long overdue, this is also realized. Perhaps there are also more men in the pedagogical professions. Other important objectives are to strengthen the school partnership, to individualise teaching, to prevent violence and much more. I also see the free-school year as an important educational initiative and I am delighted to see the overall family policy measures in the context of the implementation of the tax reform, which is enshrined in this budget. Mrs Gartelgruber, you said that was just a small footnote. On the contrary! Family policy is in the best hands of Mrs Marek's Secretary of State. And even the Minister of the Interior has said that even in the police it is now quite family-friendly. That's very pleasing. Another word to the Budgetary Accompaniment Act: We are in favour of sustainable financing of health insurance funds. Additional appropriations are also provided for here. I just hope that these funds will also be distributed in such a way that the local health telephones that operate better will not be constantly disadvantaged. Without necessary structural reforms, there must be no grant for Marode Kassen, which the Minister of Finance has also promised. He also called on us to take advantage of the opportunities opened up and actively shape the future. So let's take it together and trust that we can cope with the crisis in this way. Minister of Finance Pröll has set the course correctly with the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19091	The next speaker was Mr Herbert. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19113	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It is a pity that the Minister of the Interior is not among us, because I was somewhat surprised at her resistance and her persuasion regarding her presentation of the 1,000 planned training posts for the executive. I was actually of the opinion that I made it clear to her yesterday that her example of calculation could not actually be true. Even yesterday, she already presented the sum game collated in the APA in the executive for the future. I'd like to explain to her once again: 5 000 planning posts, 1 000 per year over a five-year period, a total of 5 000 training places, are at a time of training of a police officer of 24 months, i.e. two years, never 5 000 police officers, but at least 2 500. In reply to a parliamentary question from February, the Minister of the Interior informed me that by the year 2013, i.e. within the next five years which she has also addressed, 2 226 executive officials will retire. This results in a net profit of only 274 officials in the next five years. I really don't understand how Mrs. Minister comes across these strange numbering games, but I said yesterday that there is a discrepancy with the calculations in the Ministry of the Interior, which, apart from the Minister of the Interior, obviously no one can understand. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to ask the Minister for the Interior how she intends to finance these 1,000 training plans per year. In this respect, the budget template does not provide any information. And as a result, I would have told her that: It cannot bring these 1 000 training places together this year, i.e. once again with a minus of training potential of 500 officials it is necessary to reduce their personnel policy. – As I said, it's a shame she's not here. Finally, allow me to take a short trip to an area which has not yet been addressed today, namely in the public service, whose interlocutor I am for the FPÖ. The budget documents show that over the next five years, 1 800 officials are to be saved in the public service. That's a number you can talk about. I just wonder who à la longue will then take over the constantly exploding administration in the ministries and in the outsourced federal offices, when all are distributed, sent into retirement and perhaps no longer reoccupied or even cancelled. In addition, I would like this approach, which will also be saved among apprentices, to be rethinked. I think that public service has a special task in difficult economic times. Especially for the professional future of young people who have begun public service as apprentices, the state has the care. A final question I still have to Mrs. Minister: If it were not for teachers to be able to achieve the successful outcome of the negotiations, to pay no rent for the BIG over the next two years, it would be a favourable approach to the public sector, to the public sector, to the public service, because then it would be possible to put in place quite new financial measures and to open up funds, although the bill for the state will probably be disastrous in two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19167	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies, which is also scheduled for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19188	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Do you know who the chairman of the Sports Committee is? [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: Yes, sitting on the stand!]] Ah, this is the one sitting on the stand! Thank you, Mrs. Colleague. That's exactly what I wanted to hear. Peter Westenthaler is the chairman of the Sports Committee, and this is probably the green colleague Tanja Windbüchler-Soushill. Maybe he forgot to take her and get her a VIP card. Peter Westenthaler works in the interest of the Sports Committee, because everyone who works in the Sports Committee – wait a minute, listen to me! . everyone involved in the Sports Committee knows that the Federal Sports Promotion Act is currently being renegotiated. [[OBJECTIVES]] It will be discussed on directives that need to be revised. It is discussed about award guidelines, including in the field of football, and it is nothing better than where there are now events or such Cup half-final games taking place, to meet one or other top-ranking officer and there it also incorporates its ideas into the new sports promotion law. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Compared to other members of the Federal Government, who work only half-hearted here in the government and are sometimes present, Peter Westenthaler works twice. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, something else, because maybe some of you would wish he was no longer in this house: Peter Westenthaler will be very, very long and will be very, very annoying to you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now on another point. We are already discussing the budget for almost twelve hours at first reading, but a budget security has not yet been dealt with at all, namely the area of national defence. You know there are huge problems here. The German army is a stepchild in the high house. SPÖ and ÖVP have starved it over the past seven years, the defence resort is in the knees. Federal Minister Platter von der ÖVP and now for the second time Federal Minister Darabos have led the German army into the crisis. They can all remember the Army Reform Commission, which was set up to draw up proposals, under the chairmanship of Dr. Zilk, who has done excellent work there, too, very much appreciated by us. Their working paper clearly states that the budget for the German army must be 1% of GDP. This would have been the prerequisites that you could have realized over the last seven years, i.e. 1 percent of GDP. [[OBJECTIVES]] Then we would have made a total of 4.5 billion, i.e. one and a half annual budgets, available to the country's defence resort and will not be in this crisis today. The Federal Government's willingness to use is at present most at risk. In the next few days, in the budgetary negotiations, we will show in the committees that there are huge problems. Previously, the Chief of Staff tried and before that, some military commander tried to say one or another and to present the problem that exists in the Federal Army. These were all ordered for the report and, more or less, also placed under the primacy of politics by you, Mr Klubobmann Cap, in the National Security Council. [[Abg. Grosz: Pendl! Clubobmann Pendl!]] They were really, you can say, properly taken on responsibility. We all really recognize the primacy of politics, but if even the officers who know this are trying to explain to a minister how it could go or how it is no longer possible, and the Minister says that he is not interested, that does not correspond to the truth, then this minister is certainly not in place. He can't be seen here today anyway. He tried to give some kind of word donation, but he didn't trust himself properly. In the meantime, he is probably also on his way to Wiener Neustadt to visit the semi-final cup game. [[Call the SPÖ: He's already sitting at the buffet!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen, one thing to conclude: We from the BZÖ will not allow anything similar to what happened at the teacher's union, or that the new great, powerful man in Austria, GÖD CEO Neugebauer, has the say here. We from the future alliance Austria are the only ones who are committed to the willingness of the German army. To strike for it, that would make sense. It is much more useful to provide more protection and help for our people in times of economic crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19291	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak. I expressly refer to the restrictive provisions of the Rules of Procedure and give it the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19316	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker said that the Federal Sports Promotion Act was being negotiated. – That is incorrect, Mr Commissioner. I don't know where you were yesterday. Were you in the first semi-final game? [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Because one thing happened yesterday: The Federal Sports Promotion Act has been amended. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of SPÖ.]] By the way, we hope that no police will be injured during this second semi-final game tonight.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19364	Mr Mag. Maier, an actual correction was hardly that. You know that every law is under permanent negotiation. Even if it was decided yesterday, it will be renegotiated. Mr Zinggl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19391	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The argument of my colleague's list is a bit strange. If every interlocutors would always be gone if anything had to be done, that would not be good for parliamentarianism. As a cultural speaker, for example, I would like to be in the Burgtheater over there or in Linz, in the Capital of Culture. There is enough to do in this sector. I can't do that! We must also somehow carry out the parliamentary tasks, at least at the same time. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But let me make a few brief comments on the cultural budget, rather for the protocol, marginal remarks, so to speak. I don't think much of it. It's a sad thing. But so that what the colleague Muttonen gave to praises in the morning does not somehow remain in the room, I would like to say that there is no real balance between inflation in the cultural field. For ten years, the cultural budgets have stagnated, and that means, one by one, a decline in production and also reproduction in art and culture. If we look at what is actually being promoted again now, then we see it is always the same game: It is the Salzburg Festival, the Bundestheater and the Federal Museums. I'll give them that. I know that what is being spent is even too little, especially for the federal museums. But one thing you already have to say: From there, no matter if folk theatre, Ars Electronica, Styrian autumn, whatever, everyone gets nothing. And with all the little ones we do not need to talk about it at all, because they are systematically dried out, which is really happening now. And that's the so-called free art area, and that's the discretion area. They don't have anything this year, they won't get anything next year, they won't get anything in four years, and from then on – we've heard this more often – debt will be repaid, and then there's nothing again! So with one word: There's never anything at all! I know there are no rosy times, we do not live in any economic abundance, but economic impulses can all come from culture. I do not understand why, for example, the means for film have not been properly increased, because this is an economic impulse. Or: Monument protection. . We know from many studies that every euro, which is brought into state protection on the part of the State, is multiplied ten times by private initiatives that are then imposed on it. Or: Advertising, tourist advertising for me. – This is not necessarily a large area in relation to culture, but please anyone has the partka- pitel looked outwards in this direction? Cultural expenditure fell by 40 percent. This is the advertising that Austria operates in the future in terms of culture abroad! This is the fourth government, which does not rely on art and culture, does not derive value from it, but rather produces unemployment. Due to the social study on art and culture, which the minister published in autumn, we know that one third of all artists earn less than €700 a month. And I'm sure that'll get even worse. We have had a surplus in the last budget, and we have said that we could somehow compensate for it now. Save!, it's called. Save in time, then you're in trouble! Now we have the need – but now there is no money either. The saying should actually be: Save in time, you don't have anything in need! If I look at this absolute flaw in cultural policy, namely the flaw both in terms of projects and in terms of budgeting, I must say: I would have imagined the policy of a Social Democratic minister differently. That's sad. That's all I can imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19456	The next item is the speech by Mr Prehauser. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19477	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today, Mr. Liste has done something: So charming and innocent has never apologised for a colleague who was caught in a crime! – This reminded me a little of my six-year-old grandson’s course of action when he told me he couldn’t go to kindergarten. At this level, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Was it in the Freibier Group? Mr Eder is there too! There is a Social Democratic MP, who is also at the football game!]] Mr Grosz, tell anyone – I don't really care! Ladies and gentlemen, when discussing the budget, it is also necessary to study in the media, of course: What do the secret ministers of finance say? What do forerunners say in the best sense of the word? So I took two out: On the one hand, Hannes Androsch, who thinks the deficit is too low. More debt should now be incurred, but this should be slowed down earlier. And Grasser says that the deficit has to be reduced, he doesn't understand that a deficit will be recalculated in 2011. I can only say: I think it's more with Hannes Androsch than with Grasser, who just proved at Meinl, what a blessing it is that he's not sitting here as a finance minister on the government bank and that there's a point of fact. Ladies and gentlemen, even if various arguments are considered to be blaring, it is of course important to note that the budget figures already show the preliminary work of an ex-minister Grasser. It has been said – Mr Liste – that is not what you said! – e.g. 2006, actually up to two years ago, your party very significantly cooperated in the defense and co-budgeted. You forgot! That's Amnesia. But I will draw your attention and remind you at times. The agreement on Eurofighter alone has led to an interest rate between EADS and the Bank – and the Minister has been watching! – which has given us a 35 percent minimum every year due to bad interest rates; 18 half-yearly rates, i.e. nine years. That's where you have to shout! This is your closest friend, who has managed Austria to the detriment. I'm glad he wasn't there, even though he thanked God that he could do a lot for Austria. I thank you for not having the opportunity to make a financial contribution here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19526	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19547	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! An increase in the government debt ratio to 78.5 percent of GDP in 2013 is a threat, says IHS CEO Bernhard Felder in tomorrow’s “Krone”. To let the debt explode to almost 80 percent, you can't do that, says Bernhard Felder. Mr Harald Stefan and Mr Lutz Weinzinger had been quite right before when they said that this budget was a continuation from the years before, no response to the crisis, a continuation, only that now increased expenditure is facing reduced revenue, resulting in a deficit of €13.5 billion. €13.5 billion deficit for a financial market stabilisation package, which does not take effect, where the banks, while obtaining the money from the state, do not pass on anything to companies, nothing to the economy in the form of loans. 13.5 billion € deficit for a tax reform that does not deserve the name – it is just a tariff reduction, not even a reform – and the following effect: that especially those income recipients who would need a tax reduction, a relief, with an annual income of less than 11 000 € will have nothing at all and those who, for example, earn 1 100 € per month will now have 14 € per month savings. – This will not invigorate an economic situation! We have a deficit of 13.5 billion € for an economic recovery package, which also includes an early depreciation, because of which no investment will be preferred. If it is true that an investment of € 100 000 and a useful life of five years is only saved as a company, no investment will be preferred. We are giving ourselves a scrapping premium as an economic support for foreign countries. But in the only economic sector where 100 percent of value added will always remain domestic, with tourism, Austria's advertising will be fed off with shabby €4 million, which did not even pay off inflation over the last eight years. Since then, there has been no increase in the budget. The ERP credits are being increased, yes, that's nice. The liability framework at the tourism bank is extended to 500 million. Only: Increased liability frameworks and liability limits will not do anything because companies do not receive loans, because the banks demand exorbitant collateral. Therefore, Mrs. State Secretary: Take the Minister of Economic Affairs, take him to Brussels and see that BASEL II is suspended, at least once for two years, just as it has been calling for the President of the Chamber of Commerce Leitl for one month! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This measure would really help the Austrian economy. But when it comes to the budget, I see it in black.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19610	Next item is the report by Mr Tadler. Fixed speaking time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19632	Mr President. Estimated members of the government! High house! This budget has a lot of noise for nothing – a budget that travels from one bag to another; see the BIG with support for schools and probably for universities and for the police, how we can take out tomorrow’s “Kurier”. Where does additional money remain for the thermal renovations – which should be taken over by the countries, as Mr Berlakovich told us, money for the renovation of public buildings and also from this beautiful high house? There should be 500 private and 60 public applications. This budget is comparable to the building condition of this house: outside relatively house, inside puice! Look and delay until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day until the disaster occurs and the ticket house collapses. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The order books, ladies and gentlemen, are still relatively well filled in the construction and construction sectors. However, the economic engine is beginning to stutter audibly soon, as I found out from various conversations with insiders. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] Thank you! Very good, colleague of the red half of the empire. He at least thinks he's not on the sports ground, he's there. Very good. But now back to infrastructure, noise. – The minister has already left. Listen, Mrs Bures! Noise-damaged citizens along the Tauern motorway, parents, children with ear protectors only recently fought against the ever worse-growing loads. The so child-loving Christian-social finance minister – he has heard this before – effectively lacks 5 million to finance the implementation of a whisper asphalt in the area of the A 10 in the Tennengau. Constant noise measurements in the spa town of Bad Vigaun are quickly ignored by the concrete lobby, and it is decided over the people. Mr. Finanzminister, former editor of the Environmental Noise Handbook – he was also Minister for Agriculture – would have to understand the people who were plagued. In other federal states, such as Tyrol, all of this has long been on the stage of technology, and there are no more than 20,000 to 25 000 people in the sensitive region. This has long been a daily activity for those affected. Noise, operating closures – the M-real in Tennengau – and short work are on the agenda for a long time. But it's going on. For example, it will also pass over the population in the planned construction of the Tauerngas line across the people. One does not talk to the people concerned, one simply presents them with finished facts. That's Usus! New investment for the future, not just consistent debt making, is only about the citizens and the people. Its concerns and wishes require policy to listen to people, ladies and gentlemen, even at a relatively late hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19701	Next speaker: Mr Keck. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19722	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! There are already strange things that we learn from the department spokespersons of the BZÖ today: One negotiates a law adopted unanimously yesterday at a football court in Wiener Neustadt. The second explains that, despite the most intensive study of the budget, he could not have found any funds in the field of animal welfare. Mr Spadiut, I have to tell you: Minister for Animal Protection Stöger has negotiated excellently, because there are even moderate increases in animal welfare. [[Abg. Grosz: Do you have free beer in the SPÖ club?]] In the next two years, we will spend €26 million on animal welfare. With the money we have to fulfill obligations, which, for example, gives us the § 2 Federal Animal Protection Act. In the area of general animal protection, for example, this is more than €2.5 million for the promotion of animal-friendly farming systems, for scientific animal welfare research or already ongoing projects such as the Trasenhofen lab station or “animal protection makes school”. It also pays for improving the control of animal transport. The budget also provides for the necessary reception facilities for seized animals. This budget also allows for increased control of animal owners. This budget also now implements the finally decided databases, which can be accessed by the Federal Government and by countries. For this purpose, €3.8 million is planned. For the animal welfare databases, for example, €1.2 million is reserved for the pet sector. It is particularly important that funds are also available for investment in research and prevention. The Minister makes 15 million € available for this. Resources are provided for the monitoring and control of rabies, bluetongue disease, TBC. So, Mr Spadiut, if you had really looked at this budget carefully, you would have found those numbers. I can only say: With the 2009/10 budget, our Minister of Animal Health has succeeded in a very good package for the animals. This is a real shield for our animals, and I can only thank our Minister for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19757	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. Also 2 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19778	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! This double budget, linked to discharge packages, will bring the necessary impetus that we need in order to combat unemployment and secure jobs. This task has been a priority for all of us in these difficult times. The fight against unemployment is a command of the hour; unemployment will continue to rise. We are all required to do everything we can to provide jobs, especially for young people. All measures in this budget to strengthen the labour market can only be described as positive. I am thinking about the € 1 billion for active labour market policy, including € 220 million, especially for short-term aid. It is crucial to give people perspectives. Therefore, thanks to our Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance Pröll, this budget will make perspectives possible for people. Ladies and gentlemen, a significant contribution to job security has been made by the tax reform; it is important and very positive that in these days the tax payers' accounts will be affected by their impact, as these funds strengthen purchasing power and boost consumption. Something else is important for people: securing the deposits of the savers. The bank package will maintain the credit market and stabilise our money economy – an important contribution to the protection of our savers, who can continue to trust that their deposits are safe. Ladies and gentlemen! This budget is a budget for a difficult time; we all wanted a better starting position. I am also convinced that this budget has set the right signs to combat the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19830	The next item is the speech by Mr Kunasek. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19851	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A few words on the national defence budget, which is because I do not think this has been properly discussed. That it was not discussed by red or black people here, however, does not surprise me, because it is not really worth discussion from the point of view. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen: In recent weeks, we have also heard a lot about the German army from media reports and about what conditions there are: Bad barracks, training emergency, even the abolition of the federal army was spoken of. Since yesterday we know that it will be worse there, because it is not, Mr Prehauser and Mr Franz, that there would be more money for the federal army. No, there are fewer, around €60 million less for 2009 than was spent in 2008 – and there are less than 1,000 planning sites. That is the reality of this budget, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But what is almost worse than the catastrophic budget figures, is this chronic refusal of reality, which Federal Minister Darabos operates. All calls – whether by defence-political associations, media, by us as opposition party or even by the highest officers of the federal army – are simply ignored by Minister Darabos, and everything is tried by him. Minister Darabos said that he was already going to find out, yes, he also said that there were still “spray” that had to be dismantled. Mr Minister, as a staff representative and a representative of the staff, I say to you: A starved - like the German army - no longer has a bacon on the ribs; therefore, there is little to take away. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look at the measures taken in recent years, you can see: In the case of infrastructure, training or additional services, it is separated. That is why, as has been said: You can't find much more where you can save. If Even the highest officers say that the federal army is in danger of going, then finally Mr. Federal Minister Darabos should wake up. A final word on the military budget both to the Federal Government and to the red and black representatives: With this budget, you are playing fulfillment assistants for the Greens who openly say that the German army has been abolished. And you from SPÖ and ÖVP actually support this, because what you are doing now comes from an abolition. Before I conclude, a few words in the direction of the Federal Chancellor or in the direction of the Minister of Education, Hundstorfer, who praise the training guarantee and the work of the Federal Government in the field of youth unemployment: 4 500 young people in Austria do not find a teaching place. I therefore believe that these young people will not go quite in conformity with your words. We say about the FPÖ: strong promotion of businesses, creation of new teaching institutions in the public service. Mr Herbert has already mentioned this. Especially in economically bad times, public services have a good example to follow – and the Federal Government should, above all, also use an apprentice to coordinate the measures. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, your announcement policy will not create new teaching places in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19930	The next item is the speech by Mr Markowitz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19952	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! This budget is only intended for old men of the Republic of Austria: The winners are Dichand, Konrad and the Riege of the old chair glues in the bankruptcy banks. – Losers, on the other hand, are the boys who, well trained, hope for a job but do not find work. These are the young people who have still laughed, as an old politician of SPÖ and ÖVP a well-intentioned “Yes, we can!” who wanted to spray the charm of Barack Obama. Only: It is a matter for young people to laugh at this budget. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As a young politician, in view of the budget figures, the tears come to me, but not tears of resentment, but tears of anger: Rage on those who only make it possible to bind a trade union package – in times of short work, in times of termination and wage cuts. In such times, you make teachers a privileged caste that is really looking for the same. With this budget you have nothing left for the youth – except a few crumbs of bread. I can only repeat: The winners of this budget are not the young people in Austria, but the old gentlemen, the chair glues and the multifunctionaries. And there I can only say resigned: Mr. Commercial Councils and other beneficiaries! – But unfortunately at the expense of young people, who, in the face of this budget, look forward to an uncertain future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19991	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's next speaker will be speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20014	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The degree of satisfaction here in the House with this budget is very different; I have heard that because I am sitting here on the government bank. However, I can assure you that the degree of satisfaction of my staff colleagues was, of course, very different during the staff negotiations. Nevertheless, it has succeeded that all of us, the venue for the resort, have managed very, very responsible and not the lawn mower method, that we have taken into account, in total, by the year 2013, the requirement of consolidation of the budget. Staff and money are closely linked, so I'm not telling you anything new. 1 820 public service planning posts can be dismantled, which means that planning posts are not re-occupied after retirement; approximately every second planning site is not re-occupied after retirement – except in the areas of security and education, where each planning site is re-occupied after retirement. In addition, 200 planning sites per year – is the same: 1 000 training places in five years are created for police officers. I think we will be in line with the budget consolidation requirement. Since 2000, some 10,000 planning posts have been dismantled in the public service. A slim, but efficient state is a command of the hour – even in times of crisis, where public services also have to contribute to overcoming this crisis, and also want to use free means for labour market policies, but also to combat the crisis and, above all, poverty. Now it goes on – that is not a question – on the one hand, with negotiations on the right of teachers and teachers to service, so that a group can be set up here in order to get to a right of service quickly, and on the other hand in close cooperation with the social partners, with the trade union from my side, talk to the GÖD to negotiate a new right of service at all. I see this personally, of course, in connection with a remuneration right, because it makes sense only because we all wish ourselves for all groups in the public service that, if we already demand measures, we want to introduce a slimmer administration, on the other hand, we want to give higher entrance salaries, but this money must also come in. We must therefore find a method, a means, so that the principle of seniority can then be represented in a flattening of the wage curve in old age. The debate has already begun, we already had a first meeting. And of course we will make our own autumn service law novelle, but also a new service right, either without or with salary. If we can talk about a service right that costs nothing, I'm right there, we can start negotiating right away. If we debate it together, I realistically see very little room for action at the moment. Secondly, the second area I am responsible for, the women's budget. Of course, this could also be higher, but after all, it has succeeded in increasing this year by almost 14 percent and next year an increase by a little more than 12 percent. This means, in turn, that we can ensure jobs for 500 employees in women's counselling facilities, especially their jobs, employees who provide 150 000 consulting hours and invest very, very much time and also energy and knowledge, so that women's advice, women's promotion in Austria – 110 women's counsellors, women's services are what we need. can provide care – even in the future; and not only that, but also that we can open up a number of new women's advisory services, so that women, no matter where they live in Austria, no matter in which country they live, can also be advised very quickly if they need them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, money is also being paid for the National Action Plan on gender equality in the labour market. I might want to clear up with a misunderstanding: If some here believe that this National Action Plan has the entire budget for improving the situation of women on the labour market in such a way that there is real equality, they have been mistaken. The fact is that the operational budgets lie with the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Economic Affairs and other locations, and I, as Minister of Women, in the Federal Chancellor's Office, have the task of taking up these departments and taking up these budgets for women in this country, for equality in the labour market. We're already starting on 4. In a first round of May, first of all with the social partners in order to draw up, at a start-up event, a paper from the social partners from the previous year, where almost equally precise measures are included, those objectives are formulated, as we have jointly formulated in the government programme, namely how we can actually achieve equality between women on the labour market. At the end of today's budget negotiations, there will be plenty of opportunity to discuss the budget and the budget and staff plans in the public service, I would like to stress positively that a matter will be a legal measure from 2013 onwards, namely that we also need to look at the budgets in new budgetary law effectively and that the gender issue will be addressed in order to focus on the impact of the gender question. That is, we can look at the budgets in terms of what resources are being used as efficiently as possible. Gender budgeting – in order to clarify this misunderstanding – does not mean: 50 women, 50 men, and the thing's got itself!, but it's about analyzing: How are resources distributed, and how will the resources allocated actually impact on women and men in implementation? A small example to conclude. Let us assume that a community spends €3.4 million on road construction and only €80 000 for public transport, and you come to the analysis because gender budgeting was a topic, insisting that two thirds of women actually use public transport and only one third of men use the road, and then you ask the question: Who has more of it?, How many ways a day someone has to lay down? – You might drive three times or seven times somewhere, pick up children from school – which is still more often assigned to women – and bring them to an afternoon class and so on, and perhaps by public transport. – There you could ask yourself the question of how exactly these resources, these infrastructure resources of a community could be distributed differently. That's what it's all about. That is what we ourselves have ordered – and I am very glad about that – is set out in the Constitution. Now there are pilot projects in every department where we want to look at how they work – we practice before, that's clear; that's not a thing that works from today to tomorrow – and from 2013 on, the reality will become reality. And it will have an impact on the employment situation of men and women and on other areas that are very important in order to achieve equality between women.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20102	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20123	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the High Authority House! We have been hearing here for hours in this budget debate that the opposition on the one hand requires more money for each area, and on the other hand we are always held up, it is made too much of debt, we are not allowed to make new debts. I'm just wondering all the time: How is all this going to work out? What proposals does the opposition actually have for a proper budget, namely a budget which, in these difficult times, is responsible for duly detracting the budget, so that people really benefit from it? – I haven't heard much from the opposition today. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I don't want to talk about anything, and I have no reason to celebrate the budget, but you can see very clearly – if you make a little effort to see in it – that the government has made some effort and, above all, has set priorities: The main priorities are to continue to secure the social network, to secure jobs and to relieve people now. The tax reform, the tax reduction, will greatly relieve people. I do not consecrate incense, but it is quite clear that there will be €1.3 billion in the labour market and social budget for active labour market policies. That's not something! This will actually help people to keep people at work, that will support people who have become unemployed on their way back to the first labour market. You just have to recognize that – if you want to and if you make the effort to read the budget as well. Federal Minister Hundstorfer has addressed a number of projects that are still being implemented. He mentioned a change in the age part-time, a change in the transitional allowance, the temporary worker foundation – important measures. He has promised to invest the funds meaningfully for older workers, for younger workers, for social-economic enterprises, for non-profit employment projects. – All of this is a policy of responsibility that will actually come to people. As SP disabled spokesperson, ladies and gentlemen, this has not been discussed at all today, not even by Disability spokesperson of the BZÖ or the Freeman – I am very glad that the Federal Minister has made a very clear commitment to the projects in the field of the disabled. No project to achieve direct employment effects will be concluded. This is a very, very important contribution, because especially in difficult times one has to look at the disabled people. In the care sector, there will be more money to secure the increased care money, there will be more money to help caregivers, and there will be a higher dispensation of the support fund. We can be proud of this together, and I think these measures are quite, very important for social cohesion. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think you're in agreement with me: In times of crisis, in difficult times, it is very important that the social peace in the This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this In my opinion, social peace must be maintained. That is responsible policy, and that is what this Federal Government stands for!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20183	The next speaker was Mr Höfinger. Fixed speaking time: also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20205	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! I think we agree: In days like this, it takes answers, in days like this, it takes solutions – financial, budgetary solutions – to give people answers just in these uncertain times to the questions that arise in relation to the many economic agents. This is why Mr Pröll presented a budget for the next two years yesterday, which has been answered many questions and put to great effort. Of course, I know how to correct the opposition is a thing of impossibility. But it is not about this important question either, but it is about giving people in this country prospects for the next few years. And therefore my thanks to all those who have helped in the last few weeks and months to link this package, starting with the Minister of Finance and his staff at the Ministry, but of course my thanks also to the individual ministers and their employees. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The ministers and state secretaries have already mentioned some of the contents of their work today, and they have done so with optimism and realism. I think this signal is particularly important at this time. Why? – It must not be that we are putting our heads in the sand at this stage, but that crisis must be overcome with strategic work so that we can get through quickly and efficiently again. Ministers have done so today, despite some limited resources available to them, and this demonstrates a sense of responsibility and a high level of expertise. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria must quickly get out of this crisis in order to be able to move into the next upturn. In order to achieve this, additional money is also needed in order to create an important basis for future jobs, particularly in the field of research and development. I see a great opportunity personally especially in the alternative energy supply, but also in the increased use of biogenic materials in material technology. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that this budget has laid a solid foundation to keep the country stable over the next few years in order to help people and overcome the challenges. In this sense, I look forward to the detailed negotiations over the next few weeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20254	The next speaker is Mr Lausch. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20275	Mr President. Dear two ladies on the government bank! High house! The opposition parties also knew: It is quite clear that it is not easy to make a budget in times of the financial and economic crisis. And that needs to be saved, of course we agree with the two government parties. Only the question always arises: Where is it saved, how is it saved, and where do you put the values?, especially since you know exactly, there will be less tax revenue in the next few years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where do we see as opposition that the Federal Government is saving? – One saves security, one saves staff, one saves anywhere where one should actually act as a service provider, where one is responsible for security, for the population. And that can't be it. Rather, one should save on oversized monster construction projects, which are still part of the government programme – but I think that is already a bit outdated, because, as the Minister of Finance has said, the values change almost monthly. There is such a monster building project as the Youth Competence Centre in Baumgasse, which is now being replanted by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs for the third time. That costs € 20 million! It could be more useful. And please don't believe that with such construction projects you can boost the Austrian economy! No, you will at best boost the European economy and not the Austrian. In all the debates with Members of the Government, I have already asked myself the question: Mein Ladies and gentlemen, don't you read the paper? – For example, the “Press” was published in the 22nd edition of the book. April: ‘The Minister of Justice shall defend the budget plan: Four promills of less staff must be able to cope.” These are the headlines you can read! Ms. Justice Minister – she is no longer present today – is no longer being done, because the executive has been severely saved in recent years, and now a point has just been reached, both in the judiciary and in the public prosecutor's office and in judicial staff, where one has to say: It's no longer going on, it can't be saved anymore, because then it's a senseless shattering of the Republic. And that's just not how it can be. But, as I said, saving needs to be done, we already admit that – but not in terms of safety and not in terms of personnel. You also have to see: The Federal Service is a service provider, and the taxpayer has deserved to continue providing the services within the meaning of the citizen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20330	The next speaker is Mr Windholz. Fixed speaking time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20351	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies on the government bank! High house! Public service was the prelude to this budget, i.e. the so-called teacher discussion. And here you should look at how the vice chancellor has read his statements on this area here – I quote from it below. Vice-Chancellor Pröll first started on the subject of public service à la Pendl by saying: “At this point I would like to point out the great achievements that... our public servants provide...” next paragraph: “To increase the efficiency of the federal administration, the Federal Government... has set itself the goal of saving up to 2013 about 2,800 planning sites.” Well, Good night! Above all, the ÖVP officials will now know how they are on it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Do you have to save 2 800 jobs in order to increase efficiency in the Federal Government?- Oh, my God! - That's really cockbucks. What the public service needs is a slimming of the administration! They're going down! They are constantly demanding more in the bureaucracy sector – and then they say the equipment is too expensive. The incoming Federal Government has announced in its programme that it wants to reduce the number of officials to 130 000 – which will not yet be done with this budget. That's what I'm going to come back to the prescribing, to the teacher's discussion. I very much regret that Federal Minister Schmied failed with her courageous ideas, but failed in terms of content in the Emphasis Group of the ÖVP. She wanted a sensible reform. With regard to what has now come out, we have a real witness here today, namely the clubman Dr. Cap. This one has said quite preventively: I don't know if that's done, and I wasn't there either. So that it was done, please, no one can really claim anyone who knows himself half-way. Then: To say that the BIG is two years away from the rents and that it is not exactly the big throw. That's where I've got to say: You really didn't think much of the government! – And that one also saves these five days of windows, which now leads to a cry from the students, from parents and also from tourism. So, much worse you can't make a reform. We need a reform in the public service! It is only to be remembered that officials are appointed by an act of sovereignty and that there are also contract staff who actually have a private service contract. We need harmonization, and above all we need an incentive for the public service volunteers who are very comfortable there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, this federal government is continuing where it has ceased, because the last two years have been marked by reforms, all of which have clearly missed its goal – reforms planned by desk officials in the ministries that are completely foreign to practice. This means, of course, that the “internal termination” takes place. Minister of the Interior Fekter not only fights with her handbag, which has not yet appeared, but fights with constantly decreasing intelligence rates. – Well, I don’t wonder that the police outside are just stunned, that in good German they throw their hat and say, so it can’t go on. Everyone here says what they don't have for safety. There, about today, a minister spoke again of 1,000 planning posts a year – which is not at all true! What the government has planned in its programme is more than 1 000 planning posts within five years. The first 200, if there are so many at all, will be felt for people – and this is what matters, to the safety of the citizens – at the earliest in 2011, because two years of training will take. The government has issued a capitulation declaration. She notes that in Vienna, for example, we have an education rate of only 3 percent. This is an Eldorado for all those who think of cross-border criminal tourism. As easily as we do, it will probably not be done to them anywhere. And this federal government does not take any measures to counter this. This budget is a capitulation statement. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It looks the same in the Department of Defence. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Who says that?]] - Well, that's where you talk to your minister, your Minister of Defense. He has already been informed by the officer company in writing of how the federal army is together. If you still think that everything is “class” there, then I don’t understand the world anymore, unless one confesses to saying: The pacifists have always said we don't need a federal army. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the next disaster – think of the last flood disaster! – will Then call them out loud after a functioning federal army. Only: Until then, you've totally hollowed it out and it's worst to fear! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you hear what's going on in administrative reform – the State Secretary Lopatka has done this again today, Minister Pröll has stressed it several times – you have to ask yourself what has become of the Constitutional Convention. Although he has created all of this, he and his national leaders have prevented the implementation under the guise of federalism. But there's no way past that! The tight budgets will force you to distance yourself from this policy, to distance yourself from the practice of ignoring and pushing out, and finally to make a real administrative reform that benefits the citizens of this Republic, especially the public service, because in view of this budget, I am telling you now, many will take an example of the teachers' union. President Neugebauer will then be responsible for this. That was all, nothing for the students, for the parents and for the taxpayers as a whole. It only benefits a few. And we reject such a policy anyway!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20424	The next item is Mr Riepl's speech with 2 minutes' desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20445	Madam President. Today, at the beginning of the debate, I hoped that we would have a critical opposition. My hope has been fulfilled. There were a number of very strong criticisms. However, I think there were too few concrete proposals as to how things should go differently, because just to say there is too little money and there is too little and so on... – Yes, tag “administrative reform”. [[Abg. Grosz: Administrative reform!]] But how and where do you imagine these? – You have remained guilty of the answers. But maybe it's still coming. It may still be that this is coming. [[Abg. Grosz: Summary of social security funds!]] “Smartting the administration” has been a key word of the previous speaker. But how slimming or what? - Nothing came. Shame! However, the reforms continue, especially in the field of education – despite a tight budget. It has been referred to as structural measures. I think a measure might be purely exemplary. We know that every year there are 40 000 young people who have to repeat a class. If you figure out how many classes that are, how much waste there is actually behind it, then you have to think about whether it can't be done in the educational field to sit down directly at the school locations and think about how to reduce the class repetition rate in your respective school. – Maybe through more promotion. The resources that then become free, because you have fewer children in the classes, or because you may even need a few classes less, you might be able to re-polate. So “optimizing ” may be a key word. Although the further discussions lead in this direction, I think that we are on the right track – not only in education, but also in other departments.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20495	Mr Vock has now come to speak. Mr President, I wish to put the clock at 3 minutes, but I would point out that your group's total residence time is 4 minutes. [[Abg. Vock: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 2 minutes!]] - You want me to stop for 2 minutes? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20545	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As the construction spokesman of the FPÖ, I wonder how this budget can be used to meet the promises given to the construction industry. € 100 million in addition to thermal renovation, € 750 million for advanced construction projects of the BIG have been promised. 100 million € in the construction industry, ladies and gentlemen? Do you know what that means to the state? – I’ve been told by experts from the Chamber of Commerce. That means 10,000 jobs. The Minister has spoken today about 7 000 jobs. So 7 000 to 10 000 jobs could be secured with these 100 million. This would save us 135 million € for unemployment benefits. 100 million € More revenue we would have in wage tax and 162 million € in income we would have for social security. This would amount to around €400 million in revenue from this €100 million for the construction industry. But what are we doing? – We donate € 250 million to teachers in the next two years! These €250 million would be 15 000 to 25 000 jobs in the construction industry. There's no need for a large number of calculations, as Mr. Van der Bellen always tells us: That's 1 billion euros in revenue we don't want. You always ask the opposition to show examples of where you can make money. If you had put the money into the construction industry, you could secure jobs and save more revenue for the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20578	Mrs Lueger is now speaking. The speaking time is 2 minutes for all the following speakers. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20600	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Unemployment means despair and prospectlessness. That is why I am very happy and very proud that the social-democratic focus of labour market policy has a high priority in this budget, but has also been spent at €1.3 billion. Integration – I am not the opinion of Mr Korun – is not exclusively a matter of the Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. May. Korun: But claim them!]] This is a social task. It is our obligation that we not play people against each other, but offer everyone the same opportunities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, I also welcome the increase in the Federal Asylamt staff level, which will facilitate the processing of the individual asylum procedures and, above all, speed up the process and give people greater legal certainty. Many areas have been addressed, but education is certainly one of the most important areas. And as Mr Finanzminister has already said, Education is a direct investment in the future. The non-domestic educational institutions, say: the mandatory free-of-charge final kindergarten year and a pre-school year, provide measures specifically for the language acquisition of children. And no matter what passport the children have, they should all have the same opportunities and basic conditions here. Further measures in the budget such as the reduction of the maximum number of students, the common school of the ten to fourteen years, the implementation and continuation of the measures to ensure the training guarantee, the increase in the number of apprenticeships, no reduction and a quality increase in over-company training, “Teacher with Matura”, funds for colleges and universities and the “Action Future Youth!” addressed by our Federal Minister Hundstorfer are to be implemented and pose a major challenge to this budget. But it is important to make an open policy with children and young people on the concerns of children and young people. Part of the budget of the family and youth sector is spent on youth support. Youth initiatives and youth representatives can be supported. This means that extra-school youth work can be done. We have now, at this difficult time, the commitment to give a future perspective to all the people who have decided to have their food point here in Austria, through good education and training, especially children and young people, no matter where they come from and no matter what background their parents have, because they are our most important potential for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20661	Mr Wittmann is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20683	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! As a constitutional speaker, of course, I am interested in the areas to be dealt with in the Constitutional Committee. It is interesting to note that in the media sector, an increase in the TV film promotion fund is planned from € 7.5 million to € 13.5 million. I think that this is a very reasonable arrangement, as it stimulates the film industry. In other words, 1 €, which is used in the film industry, is usually tripled, because other forms of funding also come in, so that the trained artists, the trained directors do not have to emigrate to Germany, but also here find a field of activity. We are very successful. rich, as you can see, Oscar nominations have also been achieved through these promotions in the film area. One can be quite proud of that, this is an important and right investment. However, support for non-commercial radios and a private radio support fund is also included in the budget. So I'll finish. There is also a promotion in the area of the People's Group Law, which is an increase in the promotion of projects supporting cooperation between the ethnic groups. I believe that a real step is being taken in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20722	Mr Krist is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20743	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! As a sports spokesperson of the SPÖ, I can say that, despite the difficult general situation, the current sports budget could be kept at a high level, not least because of the still very encouraging development in the special federal sport promotion. The figures also show a positive trend in general sports promotion, and they even increase slightly in 2010. The support of the Alpine Ski World Cup 2013 in Schladming, the 2012 Olympic Youth Games in Innsbruck, a new Alpine Performance Centre at Ötscher, the Nordic Training Centre Villach, as well as important sports projects such as the "Werner Schlager Academy" or the swimming hall in Graz-Eggenberg are supported. Sporty major events such as the 2010 European Handball Championship, the European Volleyball Championship, the Judo World Championship, the Faustball World Cup and also the World Football Championship – all in 2011 – show Austria's excellent role as the organizer of renowned sports events. And they too are supported. Of course, sports also need to tighten the belt in order to be able to “lift” the weighty problems that arise. Exploring administration and new structures in the funding sector must be discussed with priority in the next two years. Nevertheless, money must also be made available for the absolutely necessary fight against the doping. All those responsible for sports are required to make their contribution. And yet: “No hour spent with sports is lost.” Mr. Peter Haubner has today tried Winston Churchill. I'm gonna let you do it now, too. I think this sentence should be arrested in the minds, especially when you think that yesterday the Minister of Finance reported that 2.7 million people in Austria are no longer paying taxes at all. That sounds very encouraging at the first moment, but in the second it is very bitter, because, ladies and gentlemen, 1.7 million of them are women. This figure comes from the Ministry of Finance. I don't think I need to put into this circle what income we're talking about here. Often, this also means a low family income. federal, expensive leisure activities are not eligible for funding. And that's where I find the indispensable and valuable work of our sports clubs, also with regard to children and young people, offers in virtually every municipality of the Republic – manageable, diverse and healthy. But sport is also an inestimable provider of jobs, social policy and economic value. It is therefore important to strengthen, support and promote the basis, the working environment of our associations and associations. With this budget, this can work. Despite the economic crisis, our Minister of Sports presents a tangible budget, also as a result of hard and positive negotiations with the Minister of Finance. Both are to be thanked from the point of view of sport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The scope for new, innovative ideas for intensive promotion of broadband and top-notch sports is not very large, but still we have to work together, the umbrella and professional associations must be able to develop sport positively in the sense of Churchill's proverb.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20811	Now, Mr. Dr. Jarolim. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20832	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! 2 minutes – just a few words. First: Mr Pendl can't talk today because he's already spoken. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I would therefore like to extend my warm greeting to officials in his name. - That's one. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] And in this way I can also ask for a applause for the officials. Maybe you could do that. [[General condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] The second is, ladies and gentlemen: I should also like to thank Mrs Heinisch-Hosek and the Secretary of State for having succeeded in reducing the initial staff reduction from 600 to 170. It is, of course, extremely difficult in these tense times to do so. I also have to say that the criminal process reform, which was implemented under Schüsel and Böhmdorfer at the time, which all experts have warned that we are not going to deal with the current state of employment, has now come to an end and we are all suffering from it. For this there is now the anti-corruption state attorney's office. There are also some things I would like to address briefly. We note that in execution courts, relatives of execution judges and officials operate partial auction collecting companies. You have to look at that for sure, and this will also be done by the Anti-Corruption Procuratorate. Gregor Sieber from Salzburg, I hear, is a case to be investigated. I believe that it is important not only to do so outside justice, but also within justice. I assume that in the next few months we will also be working on it, in order to clarify some, possibly dark places in the judicial system in the future. I can conclude with the words of Otto Pendl: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20901	Now comes Mrs Mag. All right, let's talk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20923	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! At the end of a long day, I would like to bring you a quote from Max Frisch, who once meant: [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Citing is dangerous!]] ‘Crise is a productive state. You just have to take the side-taste of the disaster.” The discussions that we have experienced all day have taken place between the mood of disaster that has been aroused and a politically firm, hand-thinked budgetary situation. In contrast to the thirty years of the last century, this government has taken measures to counter it. It has been and will focus on the field of work, namely creating more jobs, securing jobs. These are the efforts of the SPÖ, and these are very important for the people of our country. It is a tax reform valid for all those in our country. There too the SPÖ has shown her handwriting. And that justice and distribution in our country are an issue, this is also an example of social democratic government responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20957	Mr Faul is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e20979	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If today’s unword or word of the day were to be viewed in the discussions, then “crisis ” would have come out first and foremost. Crisis is responsible for everything that can no longer be implemented in this new form, and it is made responsible for what has been taken back. The second unword comes from you, dear friends of the ÖVP: ‘Rail tax’. I say to you that this is the Reich tax as a protective sign for you to be able to take away from home all the considerations about how we can still finance our social system. Above all, terms such as “Marxism” and “redistribution” show only how much one has fear for one’s own grain. In reality, it is about this stock exchange tax, the enormously high profits. I give you the right, as the Minister for Finance has also pointed out. It is likely that it will be a European problem to solve this. Since I speak for the pensioners today, I really just want to give one thing to remember: What does the “small” pensioner say when he gets 2 percent more pension, but on the other hand he gets a net income that is no longer recognizable, because he happened to get up to the next progression stage, and in the newspaper reads that Mr. Fries has cut down 700 million at Böhler-Uddeholm, one day after a year, while the pensioner was not even allowed to sell his own dwelling that he himself lived? Or: What does the “small” pensioner think when he reads that huge corporate profits in Austria are compensated for by companies that have to pay taxes in Austria? He'll probably ask himself: How am I going to have to co-finance these tax-benefited investments? Or: What does the “little” pensioner think when he thinks of his company pension, which he has completed in the good faith and which, in my opinion, has been transferred to the second pillar by Grasser and Schusel in 2000 and for which no one can give a guarantee today? In their corporate assets, the companies could have returned the 25 percent they now deliver to the stock market for corporate pensions. Unfortunately, this pillar of pension funds has not proved successful, and it will never be possible to explain why we cannot bring out the proceeds. There are many examples of what the “small” pensioner can think about, for example, the increased prices of the basic food, which are pulsated on the world market but are also driven up in Austria, or about the increased prices on the energy market he has to carry. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Scheibner and Mr Grosz on his work.]] But what does the pensioner really want? – He wants to ensure his pension, health care, the social system, that he has the same access to it even in the older age, for example in an operation. Dear friends, as always you think about all this, that must be financed first! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look at the budget in its basics, you can see that you can only change something on the revenue side, because no one wants to give up anything, even if he is in retirement.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e21027	Mrs Binder-Maier is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e21049	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy or family policy measures have already been discussed very thoroughly today. There were very different evaluations, and we will be able to discuss the individual measures in a very detailed way in the family chapter. The fact is that we have a budget framework of €12 billion. Around €6 billion come from the Family Tax Compensation Fund. I think this sum can be seen. What has been done by this Federal Government? – There are over €500 million more for the families in Austria. This means a relief for families with children. However, I do not want to highlight the fact that the safety of individual measures in this package can certainly be discussed. The grant scheme for childcare benefits has also been completed. This is about greater transparency and greater security. In preparation is the measure of the free kindergarten year prior to school entry. I am pleased that the Secretary of State will soon present us with the draft on which she has reached an agreement with the countries. Furthermore, the income dependent child care allowance is in preparation. This is, on the one hand, a relief and, on the other hand, a measure which we are proposing. to increase the rate of child care by men. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Minister of Justice will also prepare changes in family law. Keywords: greater security for patchwork families, maintenance, which is essential to curbing poverty, or the right to adopt it. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, it is about taking into account life realities and life forms and giving the financial basis for them, and on the other hand, about the fact that family life can be lived.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e21106	Mr Fazekas is now speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e21127	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! From today's debate and also from yesterday's debate, three events have kept me very much in mind: One is the lessons the FPÖ had to receive on its programme as regards the economy and the fight against the crisis. This one was given it again today by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany by explaining it again. You see, you're not really the best when you calculate. I have been permanently remembered by the BZÖ by Mr Grosz as the only contribution to the budget debate and the debate on the distantness of Mr Westenthaler during the football game today. [[Abg. Grosz: Lead Lei!]] So that's the contribution of these two parties, and if they believe that the people have to know that they have the right recipes, then I have to disappoint them unfortunately. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I noticed earlier that, on the one hand, Mr Lausch is calling for the setting up of construction projects and more investment in safety, and on the other hand, Mr Vock says that it should actually be more invested in construction projects. So you apparently don't know what you want. Then how do you explain to the people what's right? I'll explain it to you again: We create more work for people through an economic recovery programme, 50 000 jobs through comprehensive infrastructure measures, more purchasing power through a tax reform, and we ensure social security, the security of the health system, greater security in our country, and we invest in education and research. This is our answer to the crisis and not the ideas you sell here! That's the right answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e21190	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 2 minutes; Total rest period of the club: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e21212	Madam President, this is almost a semi-divine gift. – I actually wanted to make the evening sound very peaceful, but I still have to say to Mr Fazekas: If your knowledge It would be as powerful as your tongue, then it would be good, but to tell us ignorance is not good, especially in view of the fact that the objective observers of our country show up. For example, the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” was published in the 17th century. March 2009 – “Neue Zürcher Zeitung”: hopefully unwarranted! –: “Austrian social system as a barrel without soil. Low efficiency and reliability.’ And then we're going to go on: “In the meantime, all three major sources of financing have been completely exhausted. Although the Court of Auditors has been insisting for years on increasing the efficiency of the social system, political imagination is merely about additional forms of funding.” – Quotes. No answer has been given to this in today's budget, and it has not presented a solution. Therefore: Don't complain that we won't talk to you after the mouth, as you would like! But I was about to say something else, which is important, then to the remarks of Mr Jarolim, who referred appreciatively to the corruption prosecutor's office. Mr Jarolim has pointed out that there is a serious and unacceptable case of urgent suspicion of corruption in the Austrian judicial system, namely: The judge Sieber in Salzburg has been in the focus for years on the most serious suspicions. Each ad – and they were diverse – has already been set on the same day. Richter Sieber is, as it were, the “cristall design” of the Atomic downfall. This case has been prepared in the Banking Committee. That, however, remained unanswered! A new beginning with a new Minister of Justice, with a new, energy-rich head of the corruption prosecutor's office, gives hope – I say from the main speaker's desk of this Republic – that it will not end up burying this man of urgent corruption – he will surely be buried one day – no, suspect that this matter will become a first-class funeral. [[general hustle and bustle]] This case must not rest, it must be clarified. The Procuratorate of Corruption is on the train! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e21275	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. According to § 69 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure I assign the Bundesfinanzgesetz 2009 in 111 of the Supplements and the Bundesfinanzgesetz 2010 in 112 of the Supplements and the respective Appendices to the Budget Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:30:45]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00020_d7e21311	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 601/A(E) to 608/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 1729/J to 1791/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Tuesday, 19 May. May 2009, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. I wish you a good evening! The sitting is closed.
