ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4646	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! The meeting was opened. The Official Protocol of 44. Meeting of 12. In November 2009, the Parliament's Directorate remained inconvenient and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported to be Muchitsch, Großruck and Praßl. [[09:06:29]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4680	We'll be up to date. Hour with the theme: ‘Austria – Europe’s final climate protection light: The Federal Government’s urgent need for action before the Copenhagen Summit’ The meeting will be held live by ORF until 1 p.m. First of all, Mrs Dr. Glavischig-Piesczek. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4710	Mr President. Good morning, Minister of the Environment! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is a typical promise. Many say: Dear Austrians and Austrians! I'm just saying, Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Berlakovich, you could start the debate a bit untypical today. You cannot, as usual, present numerical works in these discussions on climate change failures of the Austrian Federal Government, with which you can beautify the situation and express the hope that it is still going on, but today you could say quite untypically: Yeah, we didn't do it! Yes, I have failed as an Environment Minister! – That would be something new once! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It would be liberating, as I mean, not only for us Greens, but for many who have been observing this discussion for years. Why is there this current hour today? . I mean, it is now officially enough that Austria, compared with the EU-15 – those are the states that have committed themselves at the time to achieving certain goals under the Kyoto Burden Sharing – will not be the only country to achieve its Kyoto target. This is now officially from the European Environment Agency. It is in stark contradiction with what you and your predecessors have said in recent years: Austria will achieve the ambitious goals! – This was Mr Molterer, who is now reading very interested in the press, who said that. There is no reason at all to doubt that we will achieve this objective! – This too was Mr Molterer’s colleague in 2000. That's where the hat burned to express it. Then his successor, Mr Pröll: “If everyone responsible for the implementation of the climate strategy gives their best”, we will achieve the goal. A few months later: Of course, we will achieve this objective. - That's how it goes until a few months ago. I mean, it is time to admit that you did not achieve it, and to discuss the issue of the consequences politically and financially once properly and honestly. There was an expert – Professor Schleicher of the University of Graz – who was very committed two years ago to pointing out that Austria will have to buy billions of certificates if the target is not achieved. Her reaction back then – that was the reaction of Environment Minister Pröll – was a typical ÖVP reaction: The transmitter of bad news is “headed. ” Col. Schleicher was referred to as an expert who failed to sit in the square, then he was “removed” from the Climate Advisory Council – in quotation marks – and he was made publicly aware of conflicts as it does not deserve someone who points to the non-achieving of targets. You could also do something unusual in this regard: You could apologize to Mr Schleicher, who wanted to save Austria from damage. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Who will now stand for this billion euro, which Austria will have to buy in addition to certificates? Maybe the ÖVP in its party bank has one billion € left?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Grillitsch: We save on the second, we didn't finish with the first!]] If you look at the names of the persons responsible in the past, you may notice something: Smoking call, Bartenstein, Molterer, Pröll, Berlakovich, Farnleitner, Mitterlehner. What do these individuals have in common? - They're all from the ÖVP. That's why my colleague, Mr Grillitsch, is happy. [[Abg. Grill: Very good people!]] These ministers are all jointly responsible for the fact that in 2012 we will have € 1 billion in penalty payments – in addition to the stressed budget situation, where we will have to “bange” every kindergarten and every study area – in quotation marks – and that we will have to pay almost €1.5 billion in total. You don't need to look so happy and happy now! [[Abg. Amon: You look happy too!]] It is an ÖVP absence that you should stand to and from which we want to draw the consequences today. For us, this is a very clear consequence: The ÖVP must be taken away from the Ministry of the Environment and energy competence! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP Vice-Chancellor is so pleased to speak of performance providers, current balance sheets and performance managers. – The ÖVP balance in climate protection is disastrous and devastating. You must explain to the taxpayer for this €1.5 billion, why you haven't managed to do it all over the past few years, which all the other EU-15 have done very well! Come on. You do not argue that our goals would be too high! – This is the typical excuse. Let's just talk about it – that's the excuse number one: Austria has set such a high target, minus 13 percent. – The EU-15 will create more than 8 percent, the EU-15 will create minus 13 percent together. [[Call the ÖVP: From what base?]] They do not need to rest on the achievements of the fifties and 1960s on the hydropower buildings et cetera and sit on the dam and put the head in the water, but [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] You should look a little into the future and now take climate protection seriously! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hornek: You have prevented the hydropower!]] I don't know why you're so upset! The balance sheet is simply sobering and devastating. And this is not the only bad environmental balance: permanent disregard of European laws, of fine dust directives, for example, air pollution. By the way, failure in the air load is also extremely stressful for children. [[Abg. Hornek: Say something to the hydropower!]] In these 20 years of environmental policy, they have actually managed to turn a country with a very high environmental awareness from the pioneer model country into the final light-later of Europe. This has been the environmental policy of the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Obviously, it's very disturbing to you yourself! You are mayor, Mr Hornek, and you also know very well how many opportunities there are in times like economic crisis and high unemployment to create new jobs in the field of climate protection. [[Abg. Grill: expansion of hydropower!]] This is a failure, especially now and today, because many people will no longer have a job next year. If you had invested in Austria for eco-jobs, we would have a more positive balance sheet, second, secure jobs in the country and third, would not have to beat us with an EU procedure. [[Abg. Grillitsch: When do you end the resistance to hydropower?]] Mr Grillitsch would like to talk about hydropower, and we can also do so. You should finally stop the resistance to climate change! That's the point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are facing one of the largest and most important international conferences on the future not only of Austria and Europe but of the world. Minister Berlakovich, you said last week that it is probably not necessary for the Federal Chancellor to go to Copenhagen. I can only explain this now that you have not yet recognized the importance of this conference. This is a very short time window: By the year 2015 the trend change has to be made, otherwise we will have irreversible effects on the ecosystem worldwide, but especially on Austria. If you believe that climate change in Austria will not also have an extremely adverse economic impact, then you are not sufficiently enlightened. We are extremely vulnerable to our alpine situation. I personally want my children and grandchildren to be able to see glaciers as well, that they can also experience this beauty, and I personally also want you to be aware of an international responsibility we have towards other countries, especially developing and emerging countries that do not yet have the same standard of living, but are much more affected by the effects of climate change. The press conference of the Maledivian government in the dive suit, which indicates that you already stand the water literally more than to the neck, should not have missed you either. This is also an international responsibility. It is one of the most important conferences. Austria is going empty-handed. Austria is the only country that has failed to achieve its climate targets and will make at least €1.5 billion of fines. Mr Environment Minister, for us this is a point on which we say: The EIA must no longer continue in this area! We need an independent place. We need someone who takes this seriously, who shows serious commitment and who does not allow himself to be attached to the iron spheres over the years by industrial associations and the Chamber of Commerce, thus irrationalizing our future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4920	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4941	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A newspaper today writes: Cool breeze between Obama and Hu Jintao. – Two hours the most powerful men in the world have negotiated without results. This was about economic and financial relations between the USA and China. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Now all the others are to blame!]] It was about human rights in China, but it was also about climate protection. [[Call the Greens:But you are neither Obama nor Hu Jintao!]] The importance and importance of this is seen when the two largest issuers in the world – the USA and China – do not find a common way – and that 18 days before the Copenhagen Summit. It is a difficult situation. The struggle of each state, including Austria, also shows how difficult it is to achieve such goals. I would also like to say – and I am therefore referring to the Kyoto Protocol – that neither the US nor China have obligations under the Kyoto Protocol. They have never entered into any commitments. We Austrians and a few countries of the world have done this. – That's just to push the picture the way it really is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is that the European Environment Agency has provided this report. He's inconvenient. But that's not surprising. We have always said that Austria's objectives are very ambitious and that we have not achieved them. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, don't!]] No one has tried to beautify these targets, but it is clear that we exceed them by 11 per cent – i.e. more than planned – and that if we take everything into account, including emissions trading and so on, we are about 8 million tonnes of CO2 above our target. Some say in the situation that Austria has delivered honest figures, and wonder about it. Unlike other European countries, we would have delivered honest figures. I'm on it, too. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The others have delivered dishonest numbers?- Oh, my God!]] It doesn't make sense for us to beautify or speculate anything. The European Union has its own report – if you have read it! – surprised that Austria accepts honest economic developments. But that's all right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What would have happened if we had something beautiful and in ten months the truth would come and the situation would be quite different? - Then we'd be caught stealing cherry, and we won't. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What do you have for an understanding of politics?]] To your calm, because you're really excited here: It doesn't please anyone, and it keeps everyone in mind that we don't achieve the goals. That's right. But you also have to say what the situation is. The Eastern European states and Germany have simply had the situation from political development that the heavy industry, the steel industry and the coal industry have collapsed and that is why they achieve their objectives. That's fact. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's not true for a long time!]] The fact is that France achieves its objectives, because it places massively on nuclear energy, which we do not and do not want to do. Moreover, the fact is that we – Austria – are on average the emissions of all European countries. I can show you this panel for comparison [[the speaker shows a graphic entitled “Treibhausgas emissions/head in Europe”]] Here the per capita emissions of all 27 EU countries are apparent – yes, that is the target achievement! – that is, what a citizen in Austria emits per capita. [[Abg. New builder: We're the last!]] Here you can see Latvia, then Luxembourg with 26 tons per head. Austria emits 10,6 tons per year, Germany 11,6 and Poland 10,5. Austria is therefore on average of the European countries, which is the result of per capita emissions. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] I say this without wanting to beautify anything, but that you are prophesying the fall of the evening country and saying that the environmental model country of Austria is being carried to grave, that is simply not true. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is unfortunate that you are drawing horror scenarios here, which do not occur so, and thus the efforts continue to destroy parts of the population in Austria. It's right – once again: without beauty – we have to put forth more effort here. It is gratifying that in the field of competence of my person and the Environment Minister before me, which you mentioned, all of which have been from the EIA, we reach the climate change objectives. We are reaching the Kyoto targets in agriculture today, we are reaching the Kyoto targets in waste management, and we are reaching the Kyoto targets for fluorinated gases today. Fact, it's detectable. So in our area of competence, we can do it. We do not achieve the objectives in other areas. You know very well that the traffic is one of the main issuers. This contributes to about 30 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in Austria and has an enormously increasing trend: From 1990 to today, there was an increase of 73 percent. In this area too little has happened, but this is not the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment. It has always been the problem in the whole debate that the Minister for the Environment must bear in mind that others in the state, the federal government, but also in the countries have failed. That's clear. Here, it is absolutely necessary that there is a national effort to achieve these objectives. And all are required here: in the federal government, in the countries, wherever there are opportunities to do so, to the citizen, who is far more willing to do something for climate protection than some other institutions. The fact is that in 2007 we, the Austrian Federal Government, adopted a climate strategy with a number of measures. There are all the measures that the Environment Ministers, who were working in front of me, took at that time. This is a huge catalogue of measures for all sectors in Austria. It's all there is, just: The fact is that these measures have not been implemented in many sectors. The traffic is mentioned here again. If the ÖBB today says that they want to move the entire freight transport from the rail to the road and thus will drive more on the road in about 14 000 trucks, this is clearly a defeat for climate protection and does not support our goals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Who's in the government?]] My predecessor Josef Pröll has already had to fight to achieve a federal climate protection law. Here, as has been said, everyone is required, and we have been negotiating this for months. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: For years you've been negotiating this! How long do you need?]] And I use the opportunity here to appeal to everyone to take part in this climate protection law. There is a need to distribute rights and obligations because there are different responsibilities under the Constitution for transport, space heating, industry and various other sectors. I hope that this report will now bring everyone to the conclusion of this Climate Change Act. In my opinion, one of the most important, if not the most important, project in this Federal Government is to ensure quality of life today and especially for future generations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is, no one says: We are now taking note of this report and doing nothing. It's clear that we have to fight that the fight is not over. Finally, when the match is over and the fight for climate protection in Austria is not over, neither in 2012, but goes on with certainty, and we still have to, from today on. I call on everyone here who is willing to make their contribution, so that we do not have to make payments when the Kyoto period ends in 2012. When drawing horror scenarios of €1.5 billion: You know exactly, that's pure speculation! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: These are not horror scenarios!]] You don't know how high 2012 emissions will be, you don't know how much the tonne of CO2 then costs. You're spreading horror numbers that don't vote like this, and I don't know why you're doing that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: These are not horror numbers!]] They are obviously only about the functions of any minister and not about the concrete work. The fact is – and therefore we need a climate protection law, and that is why we have to make efforts – that my goal is, and that must be our goal, that we still reduce as many greenhouse gases as possible by 2012 so that we do not have to purchase emission certificates. It is therefore necessary to make immediate efforts from today's point of view. That is to say to the address of all those who have not yet contributed to climate protection in Austria. Since you say here that Austria's environmental model country is being carried to the grave here, there are no longer any more, let me mention a few examples where we can be proud of what we have achieved in environmental policy: For example, we still do not use nuclear energy, no nuclear energy, and there is enough to say that we should do so in Austria – we do not! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Who says we should do this?]] Second point: As one of the few countries in Europe and in the world, Austria is free of genetic engineering in cultivation, and we are fighting to keep us free from genetic engineering. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Next: Austria has the first place in organic farming with an area of 17.5 percent. 90 percent of the agricultural area is managed environmentally friendlyly. We have a top place in Europe in wastewater disposal, in sewerage – and thus we have drinking water quality of our lakes. We take third place in the case of the addition of biofuels in Europe and fourth place in Europe in the use of renewable energy sources. So Austria is not so poor in the environmental field. I am concerned, once again, not to beautify something, but to appreciate the achievements of my predecessors and many women and men who have been successful in environmental protection – what it weighs, what it has – and to ask for the stage. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The fact is also that climate change and climate change are a huge chance and not a burden, and that has been my concern since I was a minister to present it, namely that we can even agree on economy and ecology. [[Abg. May. Brunner: But you have to do something!]] And I am proud that I have succeeded in the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, an extremely sensitive matter where I have been concerned with balancing and saying that we want to use hydropower as a renewable energy source, but at the same time safeguarding civil rights, natural and environmental protection and water protection. This has been successful, also thanks to your decision in the National Council. I understand climate policy and environmental policy in conjunction with ecology and economics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are working with high pressure not only on climate protection in Austria, but also on the energy strategy for Austria, Mr Mitterlehner and I, for example, how we reach the first intermediate goal of 34 percent renewable energy in Austria by 2020. Here we are on a good path, we will present it, and that is our contribution to climate protection in Austria. By the way, I am in favour of having an energy self-sufficient Austria that we produce all the energy in our own country. I know this isn't going from today to tomorrow, but it's a perspective we have that creates us in Austria Green jobs, especially in economically difficult times. And I'm going to take advantage of this perspective. It's Copenhagen. The difference with the USA is: The United States has not yet made any commitments – Austria has these commitments, and Austria will comply with and fulfil the Kyoto Protocol as far as it goes. Pacta sunt servanda! We are involved in the European circle of states and, as the only region in the world, we have an offer for Copenhagen, namely that we will reduce greenhouse gases and generate more renewable energy by 2020. Other regions of the world do not. I hope and therefore I also fight with my colleagues in Copenhagen to reach a global climate agreement, where Austria also contributes to this. That's why I'm calling. You are here in the House, yes, call for us to fight together in a close-up to climate protection and not to adjudicate to each other that we are acting together and closed in order to succeed in Copenhagen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5207	The speaking time of all other speakers in the current hour is 5 minutes. Mrs Bayr has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5231	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We only have this earth on which we live once, and we do not live in the general sample, but seriously, and there is also no reset button to be able to restart. That is why a dedicated climate policy is definitely necessary, and of course I would like to join where you have stopped, Minister, at European level. I believe that the last few days that we have, until COP in Copenhagen begins, we must do everything we can to achieve a binding, legally binding agreement, rather than a political declaration of intent and not a time frame. So far we were in Bali two years ago, and we just don't have time to lose. We really have to do nails with heads. We have to look forward to reducing greenhouse gases. Yes, this will cost money, but only then will we be able to limit the temperature increase on average to two degrees Celsius, only then we will not have to fight with effects that we can't dream of now, I think. If we do nothing now, at the end of this century, what we are currently calling a crisis may prove to be a “crisis ” in the relationship. However, I would like to come to Austria now and on the one hand I would like to talk about the issue of seriality and, on the other hand, about the issue of active climate policy. Let me start with what is not serious! I quote a press release from the 3rd century. November, by Mr Hofer of the FPÖ: "The planned funding of climate change measures of €35 billion for developing countries is the freedom-free environmental speaker NAG. Norbert Hofer is very opposed to and in this context simply speaks of madness (...).” Let me also quote the BZÖ; on 9. November Klubobmann Bucher: "But Bucher has serious criticism of the plans of the European states to transfer €100 billion to developing countries each year for climate protection measures. (...) This is unacceptable.” [[Abg. Scheibner: If you have nothing to say yourself, do you have to read out there now?]] ==References== An event on climate protection took place in this room in November. As a result, an application has been submitted to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the afternoon of the same day, where exactly that point is included, namely that an international burden balance is being made and that the countries that have caused climate change are financially affected by those countries that are now suffering the most from it, in terms of adaptation measures. The representatives of BZÖ and FPÖ stand here and say, yes, of course, the concerns of young people are absolutely important to us, of course we agree to these requests – and indeed do so in the afternoon and agree with them exactly what FPÖ called the “insanity” the day before, and the BZÖ – who always need a little longer – will be called “unacceptable” a week later. [[Call the SPÖ:Hear! Listen!]] I am really grateful to you for this incredible demonstration, how little serious you take as the first young person, how little serious [[Abg. Scheibner: Main thing you!]] You really take content. You're not about content, you don't have any content at all, it's always about populism. This embarrassing spectacle exposes you, that's wonderful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The only thing you can do is play people against each other, whether in Austria or at international level, in the global context. Otherwise, you can You're nothing! Then throw some neurolinguistic nebula grenades behind you, mix a few terms, confuse JI/CDM with international measures and development policy and believe it doesn't notice anyone. [[Call the FPÖ: We don't throw grenades!]] What you do is sell people for stupid. But people are not stupid! People know what you're doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Your reaction shows how right I am with my analysis. I'm really, really grateful to you. - So far to the seriality. On the issue of active climate policy. We of the SPÖ, of course, commit ourselves to an international burden compensation and also to the fact that the causers are involved in dealing with the damage. Of course, we confess that there must be a federal climate protection law, but please one that does not give the order for discussion, but one where there is a clear timetable, clear measures and a clear distribution of roles between the federal government, ministries, countries, communities and others, and that does not push everything back to the long bank. We need an energy efficiency law. Saving energy is our biggest potential power plant we have. Finally, we need a new eco electricity law that promotes technologies, and we need a reduction of greenhouse gases here in the country with a variety of measures. This creates work, it creates value creation, it increases the quality of life, and it really helps us to reduce our greenhouse gases here. In conclusion: Mr Environment Minister, I would expect you to comply with what we have stated in the Coalition Agreement, namely that there should be more money for promoting the very many applications in the field of climate protection, money to reduce this backpack of applications, money to put in place measures in Austria, and I would ask you to finally loosen this money from the Minister of Finance. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5338	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5359	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Appreciate High House! We all discuss the issue of Copenhagen and have the great hope that the Heads of Government of the world will come to a common conclusion that ultimately our efforts will lead to a meaningful outcome. Because if we work on our own and no one else does anything, then – and we know that very well – we will not be able to save this earth. For us, it is important that we make what we do serious and thus achieve good results. Years ago, Minister of the Environment Martin Bartenstein, in 1990, accepted an objective of 13 percent reduction for Austria – at a time when many who were sitting in this House at the time said that these figures are an absolute insanity, that is not possible, we will never achieve that. It may be that some of them may have been right, it has not succeeded in achieving the goal, but it has succeeded in triggering and triggering important developments. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The others made 13 percent, overfilled!]] Since then, we have achieved the objectives we have set ourselves in many areas. The regulations made were fulfilled by the industry, you know. The requirements were met by the energy industry as far as possible. Agriculture has achieved its objectives. We know that waste management has achieved its objectives. Now, when we look at the family assignment, Mrs. Glavischnig: You know very well that the resorts, which were successful, were those resorts where Environment Ministers of the Austrian People's Party had the saying. Admit it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] We know today that we must look at these issues much more seriously than perhaps 15 or 20 years ago, because we know that the predictions of the effects could actually come. The predictions are increasingly being taken seriously, and therefore they are binding on me and many other people. But we also know that it is infinitely expensive to change the climate, because we do it by buying oil, buying gas, buying coal, buying fuels, from countries we can expect relatively little friendship. Or do you think that Kazakhstan will help us if we have a job problem? - No, that's not the case. And that is why the important second aspect of our efforts is: away from oil, away from coal, away from gas to renewable energy sources. We forget the energy sources you can only burn once and they are lost forever! Let's turn to the sources of energy that return! [[Abg. May. Brunner: You decide an Ecostrom Preventive Act!]] And here we arrived at a point where it will be very exciting, which concerns the question: Who helped us to expand the hydropower? So the Greens weren't. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear Mrs. Glavischnig, let's not talk about it: If there's a project, I'm sure there's a greener there who says: Stop, stop, stop! Yes, we want the project, we want to help it come about! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: They prevent new power plants! We're fighting for new power plants! They're preventing them!]] Parliamentary Greens know exactly what they want: You want a spectacle, but not the solution! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Next topic. We know we have the biggest traffic problem. What has really brought about an effective improvement in the transport sector? They were bio-sprit and biodiesel. We have thus saved around 1.5 million tonnes of CO2 in this area. Who's against it? – Of course, the Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Who's against it? – Also the consumer protectors. This is a question that we need to discuss in Austria if we want to move on here, because I believe that positive results must also be made. Another area: Eco electricity law. Who's against it? – Consumer protectionists up to Brussels. Did the Greens help us? – No, they have only made demands that are beyond reality. [[Abg. May. Brunner: You're making an eco electricity prevention law!]] If you look at the facts in reality, I have to say that we have enough opportunities to save, we have enough opportunities to supply, and above all we have enough opportunities to create sustainable and sustainable jobs with the expansion of renewable energy sources in Austria and to ensure that the money spent on it benefits our people in Austria. Can you imagine what happened last year in the case of a boiler operation financed in the background by the OMV? More than 800 000 people still have boilers that burn oil in the basement. 5 700 boilers were exchanged with a funding of € 1,000, financed from the oil industry. This has added 5,700 households to the oil industry for the next 15 years! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] The oil that is burned there will cost us between € 13 and € 14 million in fine. That's where I ask you: Where are the consumer protectors, where are the greens to show this? [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Change, don't be sorry!]] We still have enough work for the world, but even more for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5495	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5516	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! So, Mrs Bayr, you have really moved that I have agreed to this request that has been submitted to the Environment Committee during the Youth Climate Parliament event. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayr.]] I have already explained to you in committee why I have agreed, but you have not understood that you have made your excitement public again. Again, Mrs Bayr: They belong to a party, the SPÖ, which, I believe, is the head of the OMV, Mr Scholten. [[Abg. Bayr: One-35-million-€-spagat! Congratulations!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Mr Scholten has nothing to do with the OMV at all!]] And do you know why we are not doing anything in the field of climate protection in Austria? [[Abg. Krainer: What does the school have to do with it?- Oh, my God!]] Because there is this close link between the SPÖ and the energy supply companies, ladies and gentlemen. – Mr Ruttenstorfer is it, thank you for the correction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayr.]] And so there are many great positions that are taken by yours, by your partygoers, and that is exactly why nothing goes on in climate protection. Ask Mr Ruttenstorfer! – Mrs. Bayr, the whole fashionable outfit doesn't help, you can't cover that you just have no idea of the thing, and that's just that with you. [[Abg. Bayr: Talk about content!]] It's just like that! [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's photo date today!]] Ladies and gentlemen, now! - No, that's not sexistic. [[Call the SPÖ: That's sexistic!]] That's not sexistic, no, no, no! [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bayr has no idea of this matter, and if she were a man and would be called Mr Bayr, she would have no idea either. That makes no difference at all, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Silhavy: You are embarrassing up to the go-not-more!]] So, now, at the Copenhagen climate summit. Ladies and gentlemen, Copenhagen has actually failed today. This is a fact that we owe to a former hopemaker. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] – Now you stop getting caught all the time! You don't understand your own word anymore. Be a bit quieter, get a bit less excited, and don't look so angry, Mrs. Colleague – don't look so bad! [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Copenhagen has actually failed, this is a fact, and we owe it to a former political hopeholder, Mr Barack Hussein Obama, who has decided to let the entire climate summit fail with Asian friends. A great disappointment, this President of the United States, who has taken place, around the world... – This is not racist! [[Call the SPÖ:... racist!]] If Mr Obama were a Chinese man or a white man or whatever, he would have failed the same way. I can't believe Mr Obama's name is "house"! That's what he's called, Mrs. Colleague! It's called that. Ladies and gentlemen, this Copenhagen climate summit was therefore turned off by Obama and his Asian friends in advance. The fact is that the entire Kyoto thing has cost us €600 billion so far – € 600 billion, ladies and gentlemen! – and now we stand half way and just don’t go on. You may also hear, in panel discussions, that it is said that man has little influence on climate change. There are two opinions in science. I believe that man has an influence on climate change, but I always stress that Austria must decide for itself to use its own renewable resources regardless of how much human influence is. And if we do, ladies and gentlemen, then the problem of climate protection does not arise at all because all the renewable domestic resources we have are also CO2-neutral. Therefore, we must take this courageous step and finally free ourselves from everything that drives us into a dependency, from the “fossile drop”, but also from the nuclear power, because renewable uranium is only limited to us, ladies and gentlemen, and if we are building new nuclear power plants today, we need to know that renewable uranium is simply no longer available in 45 years. If the Greens now call for us to introduce a CO2 tax in Austria, I would like to point out that it is a wrong way to punish. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: A switch from the energy tax system to CO2 tax!]] We have to go a different way – we have also requested this – namely to implement a change in the VAT Directive, which ensures that energy from domestic resources, renewable resources, is taxed differently than energy from resources that are at last. That is, our hydropower – I know, the greens are not for hydropower; I am very much for it – wind power, photovoltaics, geothermal energy, biomass, all this must be lower taxed than gas, oil or nuclear power. That is what we want to know, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] Allow me to say a sentence on the credibility of the policy on this issue. If Mrs Bayr likes to ride the motorcycle, this is not very climate-friendly either. If Mrs Glawischnig likes to play golf, it's not resources... [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: (make the so-called disc wiper movement) You are a biterl where ang’rent!]] – Please repeat what you said! Who Is ‘To’grent’?- Oh, my God! Who is “an’grent”, Mrs. Glavischnig?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Will you finally stop bringing in private stuff?- Oh, my God!]] – This is your level, Mrs. Glavischnig: You just don't have one! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You like to play golf, it needs a large area. You drive a beautiful BMW – a great car – you're hot with gas, Mrs. Glavischnig, that is, you're just not credible. You're not credible!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5793	Mrs Glavischnig, did you think that an excuse was appropriate? - Then I'll give you a call for order. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No! He's not supposed to talk about my private life...!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That was a terrifying speech! That was a terrifying speech!]] The next speaker was Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5846	Mr President. Minister! High house! The forest death, the overpopulation – everything did not occur. Also the climate change: Who knows this will happen at all? Maybe things are half as bad, maybe things aren't eaten as hot as they were cooked. – There are enough politicians here in this house who really believe that. There are enough politicians around the world who really believe that this is going to be half as bad. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In contrast, there are 2 500 – I repeat: 2 500! – Scientists who have been working on this topic for six years – for six years! – and came to the conclusion that it is very likely to be eaten as hot as cooked, that there will very likely be huge problems for mankind. To deny this is apparently only possible with some politicians, because people outside have already understood it – only the politicians have not yet. The fact that this is the case is that in Austria we are simply not willing to do our homework. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Minister is here today and says that the others are to blame, because we were so noble and have set ourselves a goal – okay, we have not achieved it, but at least we have set ourselves one goal; the others have not even done so and therefore the other are guilty. – There is also no climate strategy! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true! There is a climate strategy! Decided in 2007!]] Mr Berlakovich is here talking about energy autarchy. At the beginning of this year, the Minister promised us a climate strategy – he has promised it and remains guilty to this day – which says how we can achieve the Kyoto objective and how we can further save CO2. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: There are them! Decided in 2007!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Only he knows!]] Mr Minister, if you come here and claim that the Chinese are guilty, because the Chinese are not so perceptive, I can only say to you: Minister, the Chinese emit 3.5 tons per head of CO2. We issue the triple, Minister! Now, imagine the Chinese telling us: You have to do your homework! And I'll tell you: No, Minister, we have to do our homework, we have to go down with this CO2 emissions! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Arnie will help!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] If you know that 2.5 tons per person on this planet per year is the maximum emission limit that this planet can tolerate, and that we lie in about five times, other countries at 30 times, then we know that we need tremendous action. [[Abg. Hoerl: Cycling rides!]] It is possible, Minister, that we have predicted: We can become energy self-sufficient – not just 2030, but much earlier – and we can save up to 80 percent of CO2, and we can reach these 2.5 tons. I know it's not easy, but it's possible. Now, for a normal mortal, the question is: Why isn't there anything going on? We have already heard today that the ÖVP ministers are responsible for this. In recent decades, we have had only ÖVP ministers who have been responsible for this, and nothing has gone on. And now I'm wondering, Why is that so? When I talk to the ÖVP members in committee, I feel that we are all on one line anyway. There is no one who dares to say: It can stay whatever it is, it's all right. – There is no such person at all! But nothing goes on with the ÖVP in particular. Why is that so? I can just tell you why this is so: Because the energy lobby – those who untruthfully earn a lot of money with everything remaining the way it is – inflamed the ÖVP every day, renewable energies don't work so much, that's far too expensive, that's not feasible. - And that's why nothing goes on. In other words, the ÖVP must finally be freed from the energy lobby that is whispering to it and from the bandage of the energy companies that are ultimately only interested in the fact that everything remains the way it is. Something else at the cost: Renewable energies are not expensive, nor can we choose whether we want them or not because we need them. Therefore, dear ÖVP, we are ready for a national shoulder closure. We are ready to agree to all the proposals you make here and those that go in the right direction. Let's take it up and pick it up together! Only then can we achieve something positive for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5965	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5987	Mr President. Minister for Agriculture! High house! Dear Seers! Mr Minister of Agriculture, I am, honestly, satisfied to hear excuses here again and again: China does nothing, the US does nothing, so we don't have to do anything either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am also tired to hear labels such as Green Jobs and Climate Change Act, if there is nothing behind it. Mr Federal Minister, you have not made any concrete proposals. Let us now look specifically at what you and the EIA have actually done in climate protection policy! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich:... listen! That's the problem!]] Mr Berlakovich, you are a Minister for Agriculture and actually responsible for the environment. However, they have left the environmental impact assessment of the fossil economy. You have aligned the eco electricity law according to the fossil economy, and climate policy is now also doing you with the fossil economy, and that is unbearable. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true! They're all involved! NGOs are being involved! That's not true!]] You're making this very clear. This year, you will find € 52 million in the environmental budget to support CO2 emissions before and next year € 72 million. I would like to ask you to explain to us what environmental policy this is in these times to promote CO2 emissions! You don't have money for photovoltaics. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: What are you talking about?- Oh, my God!]] - I'm talking about your environmental budget! They also make climate policy with the fossil economy in secret, because Austria's position for the crucial climate conference has been a secret negotiation with the fossil economy. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true...!]] Despite several calls for clarification on our part They do not submit this paper to the House of Commons and Parliament until today. I think this is a scandal in climate policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I am not at all surprised by our poor climate balance, because your policy and the policies of your predecessors are going through just now. We are at the end of the EU, and talking about ambitious goals is totally reprehensible, because we have not achieved a minus, but a fat plus. We should have saved 13 percent, but now almost 13 percent plus. In contrast to other EU countries, which you now claim to have not correctly given the figures, you also note: They claim that other states are lying! – we are not even in the position to beautify anything, because our balance sheet is just so disastrous. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. New builder: (a document on which a bar chart is shown, keeping to the height) The truth!]] Let us take a closer look at our “ambitated” goals! If we look at our 1990 objective, the Kyoto target by 2012, and now the new targets that will be calculated on the basis of 2005 by now, then a total result of 3 percent CO2 savings will be achieved. The Austrians should also know that the Minister of Agriculture for the former environmental model country of Austria provides only minus 3 percent in three decades. That's incredible! - No, you can calculate that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: What are you saying? You're making numbers games that don't vote at all!]] We'd like to expect you to do this. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: This is a fairy tale!]] Your climate policy and the balance sheet, the result now, are sad, because you have to say that you have not recognized the seriousness of the situation. There are already 300 000 victims of climate change. You completely overlook this, including the seriousness of the situation in Austria – and that as a Minister of Agriculture! I think agriculture will have massive problems with 4 degrees of warming. But they have not recognized the opportunities either, saying: renewable energy. Apart from that, our international balance sheet is simply embarrassing. I don't really understand that we Austrians have to generate ourselves internationally. I am thinking of the 10,000 people who wanted to have a photovoltaic support – for whom you had no money – I am thinking of the young people who are very busy and who have recently been here in our house. How do they get to have to generate themselves internationally? The Austrians are very environmentally conscious and I would like to call on everyone to continue. At some point, the Federal Government and the Agriculture Ministers will also make environmental policy again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Wake up!]] If you're saying we're reaching our Kyoto targets, that means that we're going to cost the $1 billion. We can also predict that: We're 20 million tons above, that's 100 million tons throughout the period, with an average price of 10 € is the 1 billion €. You didn't explain how you're going to do this and how you're gonna do it. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Environmental policy in Austria has failed. I call on the ÖVP to release the Ministry of the Environment so that we can make climate change policy. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I confirm: Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6181	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6202	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When I look at how few people have taken part in the gallery, I have to say that this is actually sad and a reflection of the fact that climate protection is relatively of little interest. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's where you need to send down better speakers! People have fled the hall after Mrs Bayr's speech!]] When I look at the first row at the FPÖ: Klubobmann Strache was only here for a few minutes and then gone again. [[Call the FPÖ:Where is your clubman? Where's Cap? Where is the President?]] This is a reflection of the fact that this issue is obviously not so important. I would like to comment on a few facts. Climate protection is in all cases a question of energy, namely whether we consume energy, whether we consume little or much, and a question of energy generation. From 1950 to 2000, world energy consumption increased by 1 000 percent. The prosperity, as we are used to in our Western world, is clearly a question of energy. This is also seen in the distribution of energy resources. One sixth of the world's population, the industrialized countries, consume 50 percent of the energy. [[Abg. New builder: Where's Mr. Cap?- Oh, my God!]] Our future – both climate and economic development – depends on the solution of the energy problem. A short political assessment – but without a party-political hack, I just want to show a few facts –: It was a little hustle and bustle if I can say so. The Climate Protection Act has already been promised by the current Minister of Finance, by the then Minister for the Environment Pröll. You too, Minister Berlakovich, have said – and you have renewed it again today – that we need a climate protection law. We from the SPÖ are in all cases ready and will support you with full force. In March 2005, the then Minister for the Environment Pröll, together with the European ministerial colleagues, clearly expressed its support for a reduction in greenhouse gases, but then the then Chancellor's bowl re-buffed him, which was certainly not good. What can we do? – I think it takes several pillars, there needs to be a mix of measures. At this point, I would also like to focus on the environmental policy of the Greens and maintain the following: We need, as we have said, many pillars, intelligent and economical use of energy, both in the private sector and very much away from the economy. But – and here I look towards ÖVP – of course we must not gnaw the economy because we are all part of the economy at the end. There is a need for a clear improvement in energy efficiency. There is a need for an expansion in renewable energy forms. For example, remote colds and district heating in urban areas need to be expanded even more. In particular, further transport measures need to be put in place. In particular, public transport needs to be significantly expanded. I would also like to say, as a Tyrolean, that the Green Group: We need to strengthen hydropower in the future, which has already been tailor-made today. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] Unfortunately, the Green Group does not support the expansion of hydropower. In Graz, the Greens, Mr Kogler, are vehemently opposed to the expansion of hydropower. We in Tyrol do the same; I remember this from my time as a countryman. I don't think that's good. Natural science – and I would like to say that as a teacher – must be clearly strengthened. It is also related to the fact that the population is not at all aware of how difficult the energy situation is and how much energy we could save. Just one example: If I were to ask now, Does it take a lot of energy to heat a litre of water by 1 degree?, then everyone would say: You don't need a lot of energy to do that! But if I bring a liter of water for cooking, I need ninety times as much. And to warm a litre of water only by 1 degree, I need as much energy as I need to shoot 1 kilogram of water at a height of 420 meters or accelerate at a speed of 330 km/h. Then of course everyone says: Oh, that's a lot of energy! That is exactly what we need to make people much, much more aware! Then: Only then – this is especially addressed to the Greens – if the population is aware of what we can save in the energy sector, which is possible in terms of energy saving potential, will we be able to take the necessary steps, because we can only do this together with the population and not against them. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Our actions need to be borne by the population – and you should not be constantly opposed by the Greens. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Ask your lobbyists about the OMV!]] Unfortunately, you do it all too often. So you actually do lobbying for the atomic current when you try to prevent the expansion of the hydropower. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You bathe in the oil! What are you talking about?! That's incredible, this speech!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Addressed to the Minister: I hope that we will work together – you at the front, Mr. Minister – to create a new climate protection law. We from SPÖ are willing to cooperate strongly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6312	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6334	Mr President. Estimated Minister Niki Berlakovich! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Without a doubt, climate protection is an issue that moves us all – and should move us all. It is also a good thing if there is a current hour on this subject. Only: If this topic, which was taken up by the Greens, is so important, I wonder: Where is the Green Group? She's not here in the hall. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Yes, we have to look at reality: We are lagging behind in terms of climate change targets. But why are we finally in comparison with other EU Member States? First: Other countries that are better than we are using nuclear power – what we do not want in Austria, because nuclear energy is not a sustainable form of energy. Secondly, We have great problems with the transport sector. For example, we have a tank tourism that accounts for 30 percent of emissions in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: What are you doing about it?]] I come from the Inn district, where I experience almost long car hoses in front of the gas stations on the border with Bavaria, and many of them are German-marked cars. This, of course, brings joy to the Minister of Finance – there is rarely a disadvantage without an advantage – because this will cost €1.5 billion from the mineral oil tax. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is just a question of the decision of Pröll!]] Thirdly, We need action in terms of thermal renovation and boiler exchange. My previous speaker, Hermann Schultes, has already mentioned it: This year, 5 700 oil boilers were purchased again in the households and I therefore call for the promotion of only more renewable energy sources in the heating sector. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's what I'm on the next subject: Eco electricity and renewables. – We experienced two years of downtime in relation to the novels in question, not only because industry may have slowed down, but also because there were other accompanying music, namely envy debates by the consumer protectionists, who said that the Eco electricity law was only about hidden agricultural promotion and we needed socially compatible eco-electric tariffs. But what is social: if I promote heating oil boilers or if I promote that heating boilers are operated with renewable energy that are far more future-proof? [[Calls to the Greens.]] The Ecopower Act alone brings 1.5 million tonnes of CO2 savings – without hydropower. And as far as hydropower is concerned, there is a study that states that 13 hours of terawatts are still feasible, which would at least avoid 5.8 million tons of CO2 emissions. This potential should be taken into account in the current discussion on the National Water Management Plan. Here, I think, most of the discord in which the greens are located, becomes visible: On the one hand, we are experiencing high ambitions on the one hand, and on the other hand, the Greens do not know when, where and how to achieve these goals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I also consider much of regional projects in the field of renewable energy. Thus we operate a wind turbine in our home community with a power output of 2 megawatts. Average annual electricity production: 4 million kilowatt hours, which corresponds to the consumption of 1 000 households. 120 municipalities have participated with their equity and reap stable and solid returns from this investment. Thus, the value added remains in the region – and is not somewhere in a desert state that produces a ski resort or an ice rink as a luxury, which is certainly not very climate-friendly. The people's desire to invest in similar projects is great. This is also noted in the support of photovoltaic plants within the framework of the Climate and Energy Fund for Small Photovoltaics, where, as we all know, there is an extremely high demand. We in Lohnsburg are thinking of expanding our wind turbine, but unfortunately God has formed a citizens' initiative against it. And the Greens, as notable supporters of citizens' initiatives, now do not know whether or not they should be in favour of this. But with a “no” on this issue, we will not continue here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now a short while to agriculture: We have heard from our Minister for Agriculture that agriculture is one of the few sectors that have achieved the objective. And so I conclude with the sentence: If we keep our climate clean, we buy products from our farmers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6417	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6439	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! What basically moves all politicians in the implementation of their political activities is, of course, what is presented to the general public, namely the government programme of ÖVP and SPÖ. And in this government programme climate policy has been defined, a strategy to adapt to climate change in Austria will be developed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that really means nothing! This is the capitulation of an important issue, which is recognized on the one hand by the Federal Minister by his insertion and, on the other hand, by his deciding, where, on the other hand, the necessary serious approaches are missing to deal with this issue in real terms. For how else can it be explained that, for example, there is a fivefold overbooking in promoting photovoltaics, but the Federal Government does not do anything about it? How else can it be explained that the Climate and Energy Fund has eight employees and two of them are party-politically occupied? You have to let that break on your tongue! This is climate policy in Austria, ladies and gentlemen – and so it will not go on, we will fail! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is in climate policy – and the EU clearly stated this three days ago – in achieving its objectives in the EU. Austria is quite clear, by far the last country among the EU-15. [[The speaker shall hold a document on which a graphic is displayed, in the height]] This is a shame for our country – for us, which we always want to be a pioneer in every small thing! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will also briefly explain why. – Since the topic of “climate” was always political: We never had a minister who could really distinguish between the economy and the environment. He has always been on the tape of the economy, whether the Minister was Bartenstein, Minister Molterer or Minister Pröll. And the current minister is also on the gangband of the industrial lobby. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: How do you get it?]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: He is a Minister for Sustainability! Do you know the principle of sustainability as an economic principle?]] And that's why nothing goes on in this area. All those on the gangband have become something in this republic because they have always kept their mouth shut in the area of the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, we no longer want to keep quiet, but at last tell the public that it cannot continue in this form! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Climate protection needs a binding distribution of rights and obligations in Austria, which is contained in a paper we have produced on Copenhagen. Only: Nobody likes it. Mr. Federal Minister Berlakovich, you have advertised on a large scale, you have informed the population: “At the World Climate Clock it’s 5th before 12.” They say it’s a lot about health, about the prosperity of our society, about a life-worthy future for our children as well. [[The speaker keeps the copy of an ad up.]] And you say the effects in this world are so great that species are dying out that rivers cross the shore that the Maldives ministers have to hold press conferences even under the sea, because these islands are threatening to sink. But now, three weeks before the Copenhagen climate summit, instead of the legally binding agreement that scientists, politicians and environmentalists have been calling for, for years now, on drastic reductions in greenhouse gases, there is only a political agreement in Copenhagen in December for further talks. Mr Federal Minister, if you are going to Copenhagen with this attitude, do something for climate protection: Save Get in the flight, stay in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6527	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6548	Mr President. High house! First of all, a comment on the comments by Mr Peter Mayerof the ÖVP: It would have been better if Mr Mayer of the ÖVP had made his boiler exchange programme, his proposal not to exchange boilers, but to operate renewable energy, in the opposite direction, because the Minister responsible for the environment is behind the speaker's seat. - That's the first one. Secondly, Climate policy is closely linked to energy policy, and energy policy is, we know, closely linked to peace policy. And I have the suspicion that, as has already been said, Austria is not only a final light in Europe in this area, but that we fail in essential areas. Considering that between 2003 and 2007 imports in the field of fossil energy increased by 94 percent, almost doubled, one has to say: That's simple and just crazy! We pay € 9.9 billion for fossil energy sources, which we could invest much better in Austria and thus also create jobs. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Consider: € 9.9 billion for fossil energy sources or an increase in energy imports by 70 percent – and this federal government is on top of it to further increase dependence; Keywords: Nabucco. We are already gas junkie with about 70 percent dependence on foreign countries and we are expanding this even further! That's what I'm asking myself: What are the words of this government bank that can still be believed in climate change policy? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] We need a reasonable, sustainable energy concept, Minister. I can give you something in this regard. The BZÖ has already developed an energy concept in the principles of making Austria energy self-sufficient. On 90 pages you will find here instructions, ways, concrete recipes, how you can make Austria energy self-sufficient in the medium term. [[The speaker keeps a book up to date]] I can hand it over to you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[The speaker gives Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich the book mentioned.]] I would be pleased, Minister, if you were to use your energy strategy... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Dear colleague Auer of the ÖVP, listen! . I would be pleased if you finally made the ÖVP realize what Mr Pröll said yesterday on television, namely: Performance must be rewarded again! [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] That's right! Therefore: Finally, put forward an energy concept for this Parliament so that we can go a little further in this area. Then: Performance must pay off – also in the energy sector! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It has been called upon to do the homework at last, for example, to advance thermal renovation. For this we spend Peanuts: only 100 million, but we need billions! With 100 million you could finance 3 billion credit volumes, which would allow you to clean up thousands of homes and create around 33,000 jobs. But you're not doing it. My colleague, Mr Mitterlehner, says that there is no way to clean up buildings in winter. That's right – not outside, inside! But you can also prepare other rehabilitation programs. There are also no approaches to this. But that would be a real economic impulse. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The only thing you've achieved is that you spent the money twice. They took the money out of the KLI.EN, which is 50 million for the renovation of the building, and that is now missing in other projects. It is a shame to clear the climate fund, to sell the money to the public for a second time, so to speak, populistly, and then to stop filling the fund. They should also consider whether more money would not be needed in this fund. We must save electricity, it has been said, both in industry and in household appliances; Keywords: ‘Smart Metering’. But also the off for standby operation has been mentioned. But what we also need is a sustainability concept for mobility. And that's where the situation's really bad. When I remember that this federal government, under Minister Bures, is thinking about moving traffic away from the railways to the road, and that alone in Styria – Mr Grosz, you will not be pleased – as a result, 20 000 trucks will be more on the road, I wonder: Is this the sustainable energy and climate policy of this federal government? – It can't be! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The need to expand renewable energy sources is self-evident, but nuclear energy is the following: Do you know that in the future we need to buy expensive certificates with our tax money from countries producing nuclear power? Or, in simple terms: We will have to use our tax money to be able to buy “clean” nuclear power from the Czech Republic. - That's perversion bad! We want an energy policy without nuclear power in Europe. That's what we've got to do! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, I must say that I was not in the Committee for the Greens and the Liberals' request that Austria should invest 35 billion in the protection of rainforests and pay 110 billion, 800 million annually in climate change projects. That's what I'm saying quite clearly: Let's do our homework in Austria! If we use our tax money in our country, we make climate policy in Austria – then the jobs in Austria remain and then we are less energy dependent on foreign countries. Then we create value added here with us and help save the people in Austria. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Last sentence: Climate protection must not be an excuse for the export of our tax funds by distributing our tax money to the whole world with the purchase of certificates or with the participation in any climate protection projects where we do not know where the funds land. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6659	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6680	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear visitors! It seems almost like a stairway of this government that the admissibility of donations to environmental organisations is not possible. Especially now, at Christmas time, where much is being donated, many environmental organizations are likely to have to get out empty or with fewer donations, because the donors are not able to drop these donations. You will ask: What does environmental protection have to do with climate protection and what does climate protection have to do with development policy? – Unfortunately, these questions have been dealt with far too little so far! As you know, the role of developing countries will be very important in Copenhagen. Today, however, she was far too small. Commitment to poverty also means climate protection, because the countries already affected by the consequences of climate change, namely drought, environmental disasters, floods and storms, have at least contributed to the already existing CO2 budget, and this also applies to future forecasts if we continue to do so as before. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Berlakovich, you were at a meeting last week, then agreed relatively early and put very salopp in the room: Climate change has arrived! – Unfortunately, I don’t have this impression! This meeting was about the impact of climate change on developing countries. It would have been good if you had not only stayed daily to welcome you, but had listened to the contributions, for example a talk by Mrs Kromp-Colb, which described the drama of the state in terms of the consequences for the developing countries. If you'd heard that, you'd probably make more steam and not be proud of measures that we can't be proud of. To illustrate: It was now again and again about China. The 11 tons per Austrian and Austrian are the double CO2 emissions of every Chinese and every Chinese and the seven times an Indian and an Indian. – This is only to illustrate the participation of the countries of the south, but also the controversial emerging countries in connection with the results of the climate conference in Copenhagen. We're the big contaminants. I therefore understand this “windel change course” in relation to the Austrian Government’s responsible contributions at all! Fortunately, a position paper from the government has already come before us, which says that climate protection and development cooperation are closely interwoven. I give you the right to do so, I very much agree. But if it is said that additional public contributions from the industrialized countries to developing countries should not be acceptable, then this is just too negligent! This is a threat to the already too low expenditure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] This also strongly contradicts your colleague Spindelegger's statement in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where he said that the additional funds are not spent on development cooperation and development aid. – So I would be very excited about the official government position regarding development funds and climate protection measures! I would ask for an opinion on this matter. I would also like to say something to Mr Hofer about disbelief in the developing countries: You have proved unbelief when you accuse colleague Glavischnig that she is driving a BMW that she is playing golf and has a gas heating. None of the three accusations are true! Maybe you want to... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] That's not true! She doesn't play golf, she drives public transport, and she has a solar system. [[Abg. Grosz: This is not a solar system, but a solarium!]] That shows how fast you make judgments and how unbelievable you are! You have also proved this in terms of the accountability of development funds in terms of climate protection if you claim to young people that this should not be included in the ODA, and on the other hand... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] The truth is unpleasant! Yes, obviously for you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It cannot be that the future development policy works according to the motto “windwheels instead of schools”, but windwheels and schools need to be built. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There must be know-how in terms of climate change and democratic support. I would like to ask that: They also take into account the role of developing countries in the representation of Austria in Copenhagen and bear in mind that industrialised countries and Austria in particular bear massive responsibility. Even if there are larger countries than Austria, we cannot hide from responsibility! We need an eco electricity law that deserves its name, and a CO2 tax. I'm asking you to take this seriously! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6765	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6786	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Now we have heard a lot of lip commitment to how to properly implement climate policy. But I believe that we should finally make a simple policy for the population, with the feet on the ground and with the heart and mind, because we see the situation in which we are now: We are the absolute final light in the European Union. But that would not be necessary! Austria needs to become energy self-sufficient; that must be the goal of all five parties. I think it would be time for the Federal Minister, instead of turning millions of ads, to finally ensure that one can implement photovoltaics and create real jobs in this area. Agriculture is in the crisis. Thousands of farmers are in the crisis and will eventually have to either go to the AMS or get social assistance. That will be huge costs for the state and for all of us, for taxpayers! It would be so easy! In Tyrol alone we have 25,000 agricultural barns, stables, farms. One could do well to implement the vision of photovoltaics similar to in Germany by investing in this area. Then we would be energy self-sufficient, the climate balance would be positive and, above all, no mad promotions are necessary. We only need one similar to the German eco electricity law, which guarantees us the feed-in electricity price for 20 years. This will immediately trigger massive investments. In Tyrol, for example, there is also a company, Solon, which has 200 best employees in the solar energy sector. In this company there is the best know-how worldwide, by which the largest photovoltaic systems were built worldwide. That's where we have to go! This is a simple policy in which the profits do not only make the electricity companies, but benefit the entire population! It will also have to increase electromobility. You don't hear anything about this! To do this, we need power stations, which are naturally fed out of solar energy. It's easy to realize! You just have to look at what is happening in Germany. And the argument that everything is too expensive and we cannot afford it cannot be applied. One can already realize a photovoltaic plant in the power plant with 20 cents of production costs today. Let us briefly look at the German model: There a feed-in rate was guaranteed from 50 cents to 20 years. In Austria there are 29 cents, and then the lid comes – That just doesn't work, all that hangs! However, if one actually adjusts the eco electricity law to its name, then immediately 10 000 jobs will be created and investments of at least €2.2 billion will be triggered annually, with only €440 million in VAT for the budget and thus €440 million for our Minister of Finance. If you look at the situation in Germany or Spain, you can only say: Austria has been in the dark since 2006 thanks to politics! One could immediately expand the photovoltaic solar mounts in East Tyrol. But East Tyrol as the strongest tourist summer region in Tyrol would certainly have nothing! This could also be included in tourism. It just needs a little imagination! Without complications, jobs could be created, as has been said, and the entire population could benefit. Finally, I would like to say that it is very important that this Federal Government really takes steps, goes from the lip confessions and finally makes a policy far away from promoting the profits of the electricity companies, a policy that strengthens the purchasing power and the economy and the Austrians have something to do with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6841	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:29:39]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6863	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:29:48]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7127	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 3733/J tabled before the entry into the agenda by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Chancellor concerning the complete failure of Faymann in the current EU policy. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. [[10:30:16]] Announcement of a deadline application
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7151	Furthermore, before entering the agenda, I shall inform Mrs Mag. Musiol has requested to report to the Family Committee on Amendment No 598/A(E) by Mr Mag. Musiol, colleagues on the Federal Unitarian Principle Law on Childcare, a period of up to 28 years. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. As for today's sitting, the urgent debate on a written question was called for, we shall be taking the short debate following it. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this short debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7185	The debate on points 2 to 7, 9 to 11, 15 and 16, 17 to 20, 21 and 22 and 25 to 28 of our agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7212	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 122 minutes, Free 108 as well as BZÖ and Greens per 95 minutes. The following statement was agreed for the duration of the direct broadcast by Austrian television after the current hour from 10.25 a.m. to 13.00 p.m.: a round of speakers with 8 minutes each, a member of government SPÖ 10 minutes, a round of speakers with 5 minutes each, a member of government ÖVP 10 minutes, at speaking time per group 14 minutes, without limitation of the figures of speech according to the principle of Kontra and Pro, thus a total of 155 minutes. The President-in-Office or the President-in-Office, following the speech of the member of the ÖVP, shall distribute the remaining time in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television period. There is also agreement that actual reports will only be called after the television broadcast. I come to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:32:41]] 1. Point Choice of a writer
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7260	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. Due to the withdrawal of Dr. Manfred Haimbuchner from the National Council, the choice of a writer must be made. The proposal of the parliamentary club for the writer to be elected is to Mr Wolfgang Zanger. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, the vote will not be taken with the vote, but with the sittings raised. No objections to the procedure shall be raised. We will now come to the vote. If you wish to vote in favour of the proposal by Mr Wolfgang Zangerzum, I would ask for a sign. - That's accepted. I'm asking the chosen one if he accepts the choice. [[Abg. Singer takes the choice.]] That is the point of the agenda. [[10:33:32]] 2. Point Report of the Transport Committee on popular desire (343 e.g.) ‘Stop the post-harvest’ (458 e.g.) 3rd. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (319 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a postal market law and amending the KommAustria Act (459 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Request 60/A(E) by Mr Josef Bucher, Members of Parliament on high-quality cross-border postal services (460 d.a.) 5. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 66/A(E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, on the immediate preparation of a postal market law (461d.B.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 68/A(E) by Mr Gabriela Moser, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. providing the population with post-services – No to further post-amts-to-stop concerts – immediate, comprehensive intensification of the Post-Universal Service Regulation (462 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 332/A(E) by Mr Harald Vilimsky, Members of Parliament on high-quality, comprehensive and generally affordable postal services (463d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7398	We now come to points 2 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Strache is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7425	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! How often, when something comes to us from the corner of the European Union, from Brussels, Austrians make it quite difficult for us to do so, and with this inconvenient EU directive on post-market liberalisation, which is now being laid down in Brussels again, the Brussels bureaucrats have once again succeeded in making a real stopover! Only because some liberalized fetishists from Brussels pretend something to us with an instigation, should we not jump Austrians straight away and lock hundreds of post offices here, as this German government has once again done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I say: No, that's not in our interest! On the other hand, the members of the Austrian Federal Government should also hold! However, the Black and Red Federal Government is still focusing on what is set out in Brussels. It is not true that only all that is desired by Brussels is implemented here. On the contrary! In advance, the government is still putting a little emphasis on how many things have already been done. Today, we are piling through a completely unbridled law that has led to too much criticism and raises more problems than it solves. Instead of allowing ourselves to be allowed to do so for so long until we have also ensured the provision for all Austrians in this area, as a model student, go straight to it once again and make a mistake after another. To do this, you can only say: Bravo, Chancellor Werner Faymann! Bravo, Mr. Vice Chancellor Josef Pröll! You have finally managed to sell us once again in a very important question to Brussels! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not even the 140 000 signatures that have made some impression on you in the course of the popular desire for the comprehensive supply of postal offices in Austria! However, this support of popular desire shows me that the Austrians are quite interested in this comprehensive supply that you want to destroy now. That is why I would like to thank all those who signed the popular desire at this point, because they have given a sign that they do not want to please all the things that are set out by Brussels Centralist! This is an important sign, but it also requires the political will to stand at the back of the feet and not to allow this federal government to do everything that is given to nonsensicalities from the European Union. I don't know what you're thinking, Mrs. Minister. Do you seriously believe that for old and fragile people who have worked hard for their lives, it is a pleasure that, when it comes to your lock-up plans and that numerous post offices, as you see fit, will have to drive 20 kilometers in the future to pick up their pension? That's not the social responsibility I imagine it to be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It does not testify to social warmth if one acts on this question and locks hundreds of post offices and will ultimately come to such conditions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I know you're excited now, of course! I understand! I understand, no question! But you also have every reason to do so if you give such nonsense for the best! [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] We say clearly and clearly: Stop the post-harvest that this government is going to do now! A comprehensive basic provision for the Austrian population with postal services is simply necessary, and there is nothing to do if you act as you do. We want the maintenance of the infrastructure and thus the safeguarding of postal services on the same conditions for the entire population! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] We call for a revision of the postal law and its collection into the constitutional rank, because that is simply necessary. Of the planned 1 650 post offices, which are available today, at least 1 000 must be fixed and preserved as post offices, which must also be managed by Post AG. We want to create a legal framework, which will ensure fair competition even after liberalisation. With the post partners you plan, neither the quality nor the density of the supply will be ensured. The post offices offer a better supply for this, and it is a very serious intervention that you make in the infrastructure and naturally try to play down: This will be a great deal of trouble for us. For example, I would like to take out the secret of the letter as a point: The secret of the letter will, of course, not be guaranteed if, in the future, private companies issue the letters. It is not good if, in the future, there could be such problematic developments in the area of data protection, that the letters registered at the border of the corner will arrive, one can pick them up there and perhaps read something on the basis of the sender. – This is not good in the sense of the secret of the letter and in the sense of data protection, and therefore, unfortunately, it is also possible for God to drive what we do not want. The secret of the letter is not the only point to be critically illuminated here, which is hard to punch into this law, but, of course, it is also the house-letter specialist facilities. This question is not clearly explained as you have formulated it. The fact that Post AG is defined as a universal service operator in the law is to be welcomed in principle – that is certainly a positive point – but the scope of the universal service – such as mass shipments, notification of tariffs and other areas – is still unclear. It is therefore appropriate to improve this situation. This has even been reflected by several members of the SPÖ and the ÖVP in the committees. [[Abg. Rädler: But you weren't there!]] I am excited whether these today will nevertheless agree with a Hurra! cry, although they have met with the ministerial draft very critically. [[Abg. Rädler: Who told you that?- Oh, my God!]] From the presentation of the ministerial draft to its treatment in the Transport Committee, many experts have repeatedly criticised the European law and constitutionality of the proposed law, without having been taken into account in the present draft. It must therefore be assumed that this law, which you decide today, will perhaps not be kept and that we will have to experience the next embarrassment in the European Union, which is simply not good when it comes to a infringement procedure against Austria, which could well be initiated. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wheeler]] The law clearly fails to create its goal of legal certainty for all the customers involved, alternative providers, but also Austrian Post AG; and therefore requires revision. We can also, because of the legitimate concerns that the signatorys of the People's Desire have given us along the way and which unfortunately have not taken God's account here, do not give us any consent to this law. Unfortunately, it is God’s mark of law that will bring upon us many more problems that I have identified today. I'm already excited how you're going to explain them and talk them down again.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7532	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7553	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear Mr Strache, you say, you have really forgotten that it was your party friends here in the House from 2002 to 2005 who have taken care of it – keyword: A thinning of the rural area – that of the time 2 300 post offices have been closed 1 000? Did you really forget that these were your infrastructure ministers? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – They weren't all from the FPÖ?- Oh, my God! Didn't there be the FPÖ?- Oh, my God! Were these not your party friends who have brutally passed over those who have not cared for the population? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Did you talk to the post officials? Did you talk to the unions?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You seem to have forgotten everything! – Read the logs or perhaps remember them! I'll tell you: It was you, your party, who starved the rural population, exploited it, and did not “punch” at all. [[Abg. That's what you've got!]] – I would like to write this to you in the main book, Mr Strache. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the postal market law to be decided today is really a great success for our Federal Minister Doris Buresund her team. For the first time, the comprehensive provision of postal services to the population is required by law – for the first time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This law, ladies and gentlemen, meets key requirements set by the EU Directives on postal market liberalisation and the government programme. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer]] [[Abg. Street: By closing post offices?! Congratulations! Congratulations!]] What is particularly important: The offer will not be reduced – Mr. Strache, be careful, otherwise you will forget it again! – but rather maintain and even expand in the same quality, Mr Strache. Read on, look at this, evaluate the fair and without the party political glasses of the FPÖ: [[Abg. Vilimsky: You didn't read this!]] You'll give me the right! Ladies and gentlemen, the post is – we all know – an essential part of the infrastructure of a country, and it is our task as a legislator to ensure that the post is fit for the liberalisation of the market 2011. Again, because it is especially important to me: The thinning of rural infrastructure has taken long enough, I repeat it, from 2002 to 2005. [[Abg. I'm sorry, they're going to do it now! You're doing the thinning now! That's your responsibility!]] – Mr Strache, the truth sometimes hurts you, especially you. Take care now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the years 2002 to 2005, 1 000 post offices of a total of 2 300 were closed in Austria, and these were their party friends as representatives and ministers. [[Abg. Strache: You now close more than 600! That's absurd! That's absurd what you are...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! After this post office closure care now – this is important and we are delighted about it – our Federal Minister Bures provides the comprehensive care of Austrians with postal services: This applies in the country as well as in the agglomerations. Federal Minister Bures has been preventing supply gaps for months by the threat of further 300 post-offices being locked up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen, has declared these decisions by Federal Minister Bures – who, as you know, were vehemently fought by the Austrian Post – to be constitutional. The recognition of the Constitutional Court underlines the legitimate and great interest of the population in a functioning supply. In the judgment it is said – I quote – that: ‘Post services constitute an essential part of a country’s infrastructure. We agree, Mr Strache. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the new law it will be for the first time – for the first time! – a minimum number of post offices required, i.e. 1 650, which even means an increase of 150 post office posts, as measured by the current branch network. This continues to mean a comprehensive supply at a very high level – that is good for the population and is also good for Austria's economic location. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In addition, this is also particularly important, there must be no quality differences – whether it be a classical post office or a post-partner. It is also particularly important that no post office is closed without adequate replacement. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the post-people's desire, which we are also discussing today: As we know, the popular desire for “stopping post-consuming” has been signed by around 140,000 people throughout Austria – of 140,000 people who are concerned about care, especially in rural areas. [[Abg. New builder: And what did the SPÖ do with it?]] This popular desire and the postal market law have a common goal, and this objective is the comprehensive provision of postal services to the Austrian population, which can also be afforded. – This goal will be achieved by means of the new postal market law. Ladies and gentlemen! The post is a successful – we can be proud of it – a stock exchange-oriented company and will be exposed to even greater competition from private providers in the future. The goal for us as a legislator is to create reasonable, forward-looking framework conditions for the post and not to push the post into rigid framework conditions; on the other hand, it is necessary to ensure the comprehensive supply of people. The new law does exactly that and guarantees, as I have already said, 1 650 postal stores – that is exactly 350 more than required in the post-popular desire. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As social democrats, it is of course also particularly important to us and a concern that fair working conditions are created for the employees of postal services: There must be no wage dumping, no underminement of social standards. [[Abg. May. Honey: But how?]] [[Abg. Oil: Who?]] The new Post-Market Act ensures that there will be a collective contract for all employees of postal service providers. This is particularly important to us as social democrats! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Mr Moser and Mr Strache.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to say that it cannot be that private providers pick out only the raisins! [[Abg. That's true falsehood!]] It can't be that a private company concentrates its delivery services only on large agglomerations such as Vienna, Graz and perhaps Linz – everything else doesn't matter to him – and there the post is undercut with dumping prices, while the universal service provider remains at higher delivery costs in the country. The Universal Service Fund is a proficient means for the To compensate for these financial disadvantages. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I'll get you together. With this balanced law, we ensure that the rural area is also provided with postal services, that workers are insured – that is especially important to us – and that the post is prepared in time for the full liberalisation of the 2011 market. A really nice success, ladies and gentlemen, High House, our Federal Minister Doris Bures, and I sincerely congratulate this law!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7799	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7821	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! When I listened to Member Heinzl earlier, I had the impression that he didn't have red glasses, but a pink glasses on, because what you have here - apologised for the expression - you don't believe that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Oh yes!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, aproposing pink: Today, I have added a rosarote tie so that the women's ministers can take off their rosarote glasses, which their Mr Faymann has put on, because this law here is unacceptable. You may see more clearly if you take those glasses off – that would be necessary, Minister! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice pass.]] This popular desire “Stop the post-harvest ” should actually be called: Stop Minister Bures, Faymann and Co.! – That is fact, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Well, please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Your applause! Your applause!]] Chaos and Ruckzuck actions, which have arisen because the then Minister of Transport and today's Chancellor Faymann has slept all of this. [[Abg. May. Worm: Gorbach! Gorbach!]] – No, no, that was Mr. Faymann! I bluffed back: Although the then Minister of Transport Faymann agreed to the EU Post Liberation Act by 2011 – he contributed – for two years it was a standstill under Mr Faymann. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap]] He has not prepared Post AG or the private providers for it, he has simply abandoned it. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Was that not the Mr. Gorbach?! That was Mr Gorbach!]] And when I'm with Mr. Faymann, He was very busy... - We'll come back to that! I will come back to history – Mr Heinzl has misrepresented a few things here, and I am going to correct that. [[Abg. Dr. Cap:... Gorbach!]] It seems that Mr Faymann was too busy sawing at the chair of the then chancellor Gusenbauer, and had forgotten that he was still working as a minister before he got a job. And now I want to come back to it: Mr. Faymann made an Alibi regulation in November 2008 – at that time he was still Transport Minister, the then Federal Chancellor in spec... – 2008 was the Faymann. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That was the Gorbach!]] Remember: This was about the post office closures. – Mr Faymann announced grandly in the ORF “Morgenjournal”: I won't let someone lock 200 or more post offices. - This one's behind me now. Mrs Bures, you now lock 300 post offices – and Mr Faymann?- Oh, my God! Where is he? Not there! He'll allow it. [[Abg. New builder: This is his strength!]] – That’s his strength, exactly that’s it! Mr Faymann is someone who speaks differently today and tomorrow. That must also be said, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Unfortunately, Mr. Faymann had forgotten this in February 2009 – that may have been a temporary amnesia – because he then said that one will not come around to close 300 post offices. But the forgetfulness in the SPÖ should be a little bit like a little ghost – such a small flu of oblivion – because Mr Gusenbauer has recently weathered against the study fees: He promised to abolish them at the time – he did not abolish them! And then he stands there with the students and makes a nice activism against the study fees with these far-left Audimax chaots that are inside. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's herb and beet, what you're talking about!]] - That's your clientele. [[Abg. Street: From the Post Office directly to the Audimax!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] One thing I would like to say: Mr Faymann changes his mind hourly – this is nothing new. But now I would like to come back to the colleague from the SPÖ up there. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier:... Gorbach!]] – You said it was Mr Gorbach. Do you know when the whole thing started? – That's on 30. April 1996 started – and there was no Mr Gorbach in the government yet – because the postal and telegraph administration had been suspended, that is, separated, and that was the beginning of the whole. [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: That's not true! Learn history!]] – Of course! So it is, ladies and gentlemen, so it looks! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Who writes to you...?- Oh, my God!]] It is also interesting, Mrs. Minister, that you have announced that you will set up 1 650 post offices. – Currently, only 1 139 of the 1 300 post offices there are left. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Mr. Gorbach has the rest...!]] 440 Postpartners have arrived, according to my bill according to Adam Ries 1 549, so missing 101 post offices, ladies and gentlemen. It is not a question of comprehensive postal services! This post-market law also states that from 10,000 inhabitants or in all capitals, it must be ensured that more than 90 percent of the population have a post office at a distance of up to two kilometres or post office at a maximum distance of ten kilometres or ten minutes driving time. – You all know the statements of the Tyrolean state government, the Vorarlberg state government: In Vorarlberg there are only nine of the 96 municipalities where this is fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how it looks, and nothing has been changed by you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: Your colleague, you are relatively unsuspecting!]] - I already know! Such non-resident post-business offices, for example in the municipality office, which have already opened less than 20 hours per week or five working days per week at the time of the entry into force of this scheme. However, the total number of postal offices with less than 20 hours per week shall not exceed 165. I then asked you in committee – I have not received a reply to this day – how many of these post offices are below them. Here too you are juicy. I have sent you a written request; perhaps You answer this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice pass.]] Mrs Bures, ensure you have a high quality, comprehensive supply of postal services and fair conditions! There is also a request from the BZÖ for consultation – I would ask you to agree. I see the problem of the thinning of postal services in the country. Since it must not happen that the post only has to take over the unattractive areas, that is, the costs must cover where it is not interesting – and where it is financially interesting, the private providers cross the market. There has to be justice, fairness has to be done – you have to pay attention to it! Another point is the fairness of staff: Now a lot of officials are put in any “reception camp” at the post – pools are called that. There they are sentenced to a lack of time, and finally leasing workers or cheap workers are recruited. – It can't be! Look at the people, don't let the officers down! These have not deserved this, they have entered this work under different conditions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another problem is the transfer of postal services to the police: This is not entirely in your area, but here the training is inadequate; it should be strengthened. These officials have no easy life there either: If they receive only a 08/15 course, the work will not make them happy, and then they are no real relief for the police. There is also a need for action here. All in all, I can see that Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann once again had his hands in the game: Everywhere he had his hands in the game, shards lie around, and you can get them together and then stick together. – Unfortunately, something has gotten messed up here. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Final sentence: The BZÖ will not agree to this postal market law for insufficient assurance of a high-quality comprehensive supply of postal services.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8139	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8162	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already said at this point that this law is not necessarily under a good star. I also pointed out at the time that the first draft was characterised by a certain lack of orientation, and I would say that even this whole further process, I would say, shows a certain deficit in political management. I have already said that at this point. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: His own representatives did not complain, and he said what Austria was thinking!]] I also remember that it was incomprehensible to us that on 17 November it was incomprehensible. On 28 April this draft law came into the review and went on 28 April. May has come back to the table of the house again, and I have already pointed out at that time that it is not quite understandable that there is this time pressure. We were told from the cabinet of the Federal Minister that there is such a great time pressure. This was all in the run-up to the Upper Austrian country election campaign, and I also had the impression that the Federal Minister was a little driven by the then chairman of the SPÖ Upper Austria. - I think he's called Haider. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Exactly!]] In view of the results of the election in Upper Austria, it is known that it was a misevaluation that one has tried to influence things with this time pressure, because the SPÖ election result has already spoken a clear language. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But I believe that we should also talk about the closure of the post offices, and I would also like to talk about it. But first of all, I would like to say to the initiators and those who signed the popular desire that we have brought in three principles on the part of the Austrian People's Party in this discussion: The comprehensive provision of postal services must be ensured, the future of postal services and their employees must not be put at risk, and the post must not become AUA. – I’m still praising this now and I’m saying: The post must not become a “consumer”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And the framework conditions for fair competition must be created in a liberalised postal market. Ladies and gentlemen, we have therefore also made a committee statement on the Committee in that the people's desire Signatories know that there remains an adequate relationship between postal branches and postal partners as regards postal offices and that the use of postal partners at those sites that no longer expect is ensured and thus the 1 650 postal offices are secured. Mrs. Bures, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, has issued a decision on the closure of the post office. At the time, we have shown that this is, of course, a certain government in a company that is a listed company. And I also believe that we need to remember a little here, which really needs to be ensured on the question of the structure of the post offices. If I have said that the post should not become a “consumer”, I would also like to remind some that this is a trade organization that was 100 years old, led by the SPÖ, which suffered economic collapse due to a bad location policy, a bad branch structure in the mid-1990s. [[Abg. Grosz: And not to BAWAG!]] [[Calls of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] Mrs. Colleague, learn from the “consumer”: If you maintain sites that do not expect to make losses, it will have to pay anyone. And I'll write to you in the master book, Mrs. Colleague: You can only take out of a cash register as much as you are inside. And if you make losses, you have to think about who covers them. When costs arise, as they were incurred in the “consumer”, they also arise in post offices. [[Calls to the Greens.]] You have to ask: Is it fair, is it just that these losses are covered, and who covers them? Therefore, the system proposed with regard to the postal partners is a proper, reasonable system, which also ensures that local services are provided in these areas. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that if we adopt this law today, we must also point out that unfortunately it has not succeeded in ensuring equal treatment for those who organise a newspaper delivery in that country. We have tried to obtain a constitutional opinion here too – we have not received it. There are, of course, and it has already been pointed out that some concern about EU law or constitutional concerns has been raised. I referred to this in the Committee. Should this happen, this is the sole responsibility of the Federal Minister. We have tried to influence them a little in the deliberations, that there is a change – unfortunately we have not succeeded. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Could be a speaker of us!]] So let me briefly say: In the course of this law, we see the possibility of ensuring comprehensive care, and we also believe that the question of postal partners is the right way. The closing of postal offices has shown that postal services are closed here, where five letters or seven packages are given up on the day; and here, looking for another organization through these postal partners, who also offer a different opening time and are therefore more consumer-friendly, seems to be the right way, a way that we also support. And I also believe that the Committee's position in relation to the signatorys of popular desire is taken into account. The concerns we have, especially as regards constitutional treatment, is equal to the equality of suppliers regarding newspapers, I maintain. However, I hope that this law will be lived in such a way that everything will be done on the part of the postal management that the employees will take on the development we hope to continue, namely what has been started on re-training and the like, so that there will be a reasonable economic development on the part of the post office.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8293	Mrs. Dr. Moser is now speaking. 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8314	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier, I do not understand why you are still in the same government, if you are publicly expressing such criticism here, but in advance were unable to make the criticism points constructive. I don't understand. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it is precisely your statement that the current situation, the current way in which the postal market law is considered from the front and the back, is a complete Murks. It does not meet the needs, neither the one nor the other. It is a large-scale Swiss being that does not, above all, open up the sins of the past. I can tell you the situation very briefly. It has already been mentioned: How will a pensioner, a pensioner living in rural areas, pick up his/her pension in the future? Your law provides: Ten kilometres to the nearest post office, and there is still no guarantee that this post office offers really all the financial services that a post office offers. And this pensioner, this pensioner is supposed to pick up the pension! So ten kilometers on land is called driving a car. Your invoice is as follows: 10 minutes for 10 kilometers. That's not true in the back and in the front – you don't know the topography of Austria! Do you tell me what pensioner/retirementist is really capable of driving a car in old age? This is the result of their distance and timing for the land-wide supply. This is a Murks, I say! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to show you once again the past. [[The speaker presents a displayboard on which Austria is represented and which has already been registered in different colours, in advance of the speaker's desk.]] It has already been said about it today: We have had a complete thinning of supply in the area in the time of black and blue. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can't see that! Too small!]] Look You're looking at the white spots: The white spots show the no longer supplied areas. Look at the bright brown spots: There's only one post office there. And look at the red and green points: These mean that there are posters here that there are postal offices, service partners et cetera. Look This is what you're looking at: White spots in the Styria front and back! The replacement rate was also bad in the Styria. We had the lowest replacement rates in the lock-up concept in Lower Austria and Upper Austria; only 41 percent was the replacement rate. Post offices have been locked up, not even half of the post office has been opened again; also in Upper Austria. Please, this has been the policy of blue, of brown, and that was above all the provision of rural areas by black! Their black policy led to these white spots. And today we have the situation that this postal market law should reverse this, but unfortunately this does not happen after the alignment of this law. We'd demand it! Ms. Minister, 140 000 Austrians have demanded that there be a comprehensive supply again. – But no, you don’t do this with a law, but just say that there must be a total of 1,650 post offices, offices – and don’t define how many post offices there are to be! Full supply is not provided by postal service agencies; a post office offers more. And you're not exactly defining the degree of care, Mrs. Federal Minister. These ten kilometers, which I mentioned, are a thumb-time-pi-recognition; in the constituency centres, it is at least two kilometers. Look If you want to buy, for example, stamps, you'll find yourself in the real situation, because Trafiken doesn't offer them anymore. Further: Where do you want to throw letters when you disassemble mailboxes?- Oh, my God! And when you look home in the mailbox: I often find there incorrectly addressed letters or not addressed to me at all. Conclusion: This is the result of the staff pressure at Post AG, where some of the personnel in sub-companies are already employed in sub-companies, and no longer have the previous qualifications, with the fact that, above all, these people are being sent to dumping wages with mail broadcasts into the streets and alleyways – and then, of course, because of enormous time pressure, there are misconceptions. - That's not how it goes, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, the EU has also prescribed liberalisation, but we Greens have always said: The EU's liberalisation policy in this area is completely counterproductive, and in this field we reject EU policy as social and supply counterproductive and will continue to address our EU-critical approach. What, Mrs Bures, did your predecessor, Mr Faymann? – He joined the list of government ministers who considered the implementation of the EU Directive as an early date in 2011, although 2013 would have been possible. But no, Austria had to be among the “early countries. ” EU accession countries should have a longer period of time, and Austria should be in this earlier period, your argument was in the Committee, only: I'm afraid she's not. This EU liberalisation brings considerable disadvantages to our average customers and customers. Look at the postal market law! First: Customers have no right to the consequences of making complaints. Secondly, No representation is provided for the customers in the postal business advisory board. And thirdly, When a post office is closed, the municipality concerned can no longer contact the Administrative Court. When a post office is closed, it can be closed because the regulatory authority no longer operates. And if it does not work, a post office will be closed. This is a free letter for Post AG! And, Mrs Minister, this law does not provide for criminal provisions if data protection is infringed. That's all Murks! - Yes, in detail. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Look On the other hand, when it comes to bringing an example of free quality criteria that need to be done: In the country, some more expensive tariffs are to be feared; time and tariffs of delivery are changed when consignments are submitted to distribution centres or when, for example, return packages are returned to the shipping trade. 165 postal services do not at all need to provide the normal and comprehensive universal service. As far as the letter boxes are concerned, there is no more weekend emptying; this is deleted without replacement. And by the way, ladies and gentlemen, imagine this: Only new participants in the postal market will have to make a contribution to the universal service if they have more than € 1 million in turnover. Therefore, nothing easier than to divide this into sub-contractors, so that sales remain below € 1 million – and the universal service has to be provided by Post AG alone. And what does Post AG do? - It thins further. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is Murks, Mrs. Minister, and that's why we reject your law! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My colleague, Mr Maier, has already pointed out the various rubber paragraphs concerning newspaper delivery, some of which are illegal, even unconstitutional, and the employment conditions where this postal market law will lead to a social and wage dumping. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Mrs Bures, that wasn't your business!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8454	Next speaker: Mrs. Bures. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8475	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Post-Market Act, which is now under discussion, is the result of months and very intense negotiations, which have been conducted, of a clear future regime as regards postal services throughout Austria. I have once again listened very attentively to the positions of all parties, and I would now also like to take the opportunity to make it clear once again why I believe it is so important to adopt a new post-market law with clear rules and to make it available to the people so to speak. After all, postal services are available to each of us: One pick up packers from the post office, the other write postcards, and people also do banking in the post office. And each one of us locks when he/she comes home, opens up the mail box and looks what's come. This is proof that this is a service that we are using on a daily basis, which has become something like a matter of course, for all people, and for the economy, for businesses, this service is not to be thought away at all. And since this is so, I understand that there is displeasure in the population, I understand that there are people who have said: With a popular desire, we want to express this concern that we have! This concern is, of course, a legitimate one, especially after what has happened in recent years. It has already been mentioned several times today that 800 post offices have been closed in Austria between 2002 and 2005 without any replacement. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In countless small communities there has been no postal service since then, in small communities this service is not fulfilled. That's why I said: I no longer look at it, we have to act! because at the beginning of this year the Post Managers announced that they would like to lock 300 post offices, which I said: If there is no replacement, I do not agree; I stop this post-closure wave of the past! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to say, as elected representatives of the people, that there have really been many discussions in the population. I received innumerable letters from mayors who were concerned about the threat of losing this service, and of course they were deeply affected in terms of the infrastructure of their communities. That is why I have stopped this wave of closure by adopting a decision that, although there have been some who have said, no post-amt closures are allowed to occur without replacements: Well, that's what we're looking at; that's where the Minister goes a little too far! There has also been an attempt to destroy my efforts by calling on the Constitutional Court. – My decision to stop these post office closures was right; five weeks ago the Constitutional Court gave me a right; that is, no more closures without replacement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We can look at the communities that have no post office today without my notice to stop the closures; these are really a lot of communities, from Waldzell to Bürmoos, Niederalm, Fuschl am See, Rauris and so on: in every federal country there are communities that wanted this service to continue and have it right. But because a decision does not guarantee legal certainty, it was no question to me that I must work with great elan and great commitment to a clear new legal regime, and I have therefore presented a draft law which also provides for these clear rules for the future to exclude what has happened in the past from the past. I have clearly defined four goals that must have a new, good postal market law. The first is: A minimum number of 1 650 postal posts is guaranteed by law – for the first time by law – throughout Austria. That's more than 150 service providers in the past. Secondly, The law ensures fair wages for the people employed there. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Who?]] It will provide for a mandatory application of a collective agreement because it is important to me to act against wage and social dumping. Therefore, a collective contract will be applied when it comes to employees with postal service providers. [[Abg. May. Honey: Which one?]] This is social security. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Thirdly, this was also the case in the discussion: Of course, there is always the worry, the private pick up the raisins from the cake; the famous rosin pick. And this is excluded by this law: Not only in the agglomerations, not only in the cities in Austria, but also in rural areas where we want this service, but where there are no chances of winning, will it be guaranteed. People need them there, the business location needs them there. This service must also be provided there. Rosin picking is excluded by this law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fourth cornerstone of this new law, which was very important to me, is that now, after a decision of the Constitutional Court, there is a clarification for something that has been unclear for years, namely, who bears the costs. The law makes it clear that the house-book facilities are not allowed to cost tenants or homeowners or homeowners. They will not be overwhelmed by the costs of the new house letter facilities. I have also proposed and formulated this in the law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, my place of business is responsible for the legal framework. As has been said, the global supply, no wage dumping, no raisin picking, no over-costs on the people of this country who need this important service. In my opinion, this is a good result, even if you still want to discuss there or there, but that is a very good result in the overall view. This law also leads to an end to the uncertainty, unhappiness, the concern of the population, the economy, but also the 23 000 people employed in the Austrian postal service, that there will again be such a thing as confidence, including as regards their employment. That is why this is a good result. I do not make any sense of it, this good result was only possible because in the months of negotiations so many people worked positively on it. They helped. I would like to thank them: It was the Chamber of Commerce, it was the Chamber of Workers, it was the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, it was the Industrial Union, it was also the Town and Municipal Association with the many mayors, and of course it was at the head of all the experts and officials of my house. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Yes!]] A warm thank you! It is a good law that will now end much of the uncertainty of the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8602	Mr Vilimsky is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8624	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Let me say a little bit factual to Mrs Minister's beautiful speech. We are in the reporting of the last days in Schwechat, the former home community of your high-chair climate, which is now working in Argentina. [[towards SPÖ]] It is reported: Due to lack of space in the pharmacy, the collection of stored packages in Zwölfaxing is carried out. A measure of the Post provided for troubles and tumults on Friday and Monday, with massive protests by the ÖVP mayor, because the unaccepted letters with proof of delivery and parcels were not deposited with the Rannersdorfer Postpartner, namely the Wallhof pharmacy or the Post Office Schwechat, but they had to be fixed at the post partner in Zwölfaxing, namely at the car house Keglovits. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] These are the “blessed” effects of your closure of post offices and the opening of post partners! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I personally do not know, Madam Minister, how it works, and it should work well. If I go to the Greißler and buy me two extra sausages, half a litre of milk and maybe a cantwurst summer, I can now also do some registration process in between. Or I'm at the car house in Zwölfaxing, where I tell the seller: Go S’, give me a car! I'll take a test trip, and now you'll find me the registration letter with the number anyway. This is, of course, a massive reduction in the quality that we are otherwise used to by the post offices. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want to congratulate the operators of this popular desire on the excellent results. They have managed to bring this issue into broad consciousness and also to warn of unscrupulous developments in this area. The interesting thing about this is: The top operator of this popular desire is an ÖVP personnel representative. We have a very good offer, which is primarily intended for the Social Democrats, but which we can also extend to the ÖVP. We have something like an exit phone for dissatisfied people from the ÖVP or also the SPÖ. It's easy to call, as with a bank, we do all the formalities, check the caller out of his original party red or black and check him in with us. This is one thing that delights in high popularity. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] You must not forget where the cause is. This is in the European Union and the need to liberalise everything. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I claim that the post offices are a sacred property and must also belong to the basic provision of a state, because one cannot simply do it in such a way that one keeps the Greißler, the pharmacist, perhaps the host or the gas station owner in order to do the postal business. Do you know how long this post-partner's training period is? - Three days! You want to make the tank guard, the pharmacist and the Greißler a post office within three days? It won't work! The operators of the post-popular desire have also told you: With this law, which you decide today, there will no longer be a post office in Austria in ten years, but the business will only be handled through the Greißler, the gas station or anyone else. Of course, our party observer is right when he says that the secret of the letter will not be what it was once, when the post may be with the host and he is interested in what the Poldi Maier – we call him so – gets for letters, and the host may look into the letter once; or someone else is interested in it while the host is washing out the beer glasses. I would also like to say something about these house-letters – also a “beautiful” effect of liberalisation: I was one of the first victims of this development. In my residential complex, these “tolls” were installed new castles. [[Abg. Csörgits: Hubert Gorbach!]] And I was so negligent and moved the keys. That's what I thought: Shit, you can't get to your mail now! – That was no problem at all. I just got in the first three months and got me the whole mail! You all know, there are account extracts, medical findings and confidential things coming to the home address. All of this will no longer exist, especially if the poster is no longer available, but the Turnpatchen Brigades will then send the letters from Afghanistan or India. Do you know how the criminals act today? – For example, by searching through the dungbirds and looking at what is inside, whether this is more someone who has more money or less money, whether he eats shrimp or eats the Hofer-Pizza. From this they draw conclusions about the commercial possibilities that this person has, and then make targeted efforts to break in. Now it looks like this: You just get into the wallet, take the account extract, and you know where you're going to break in. It can't be! And with your law, you have only made the new home lettering facilities secure, but not the old ones – and 40 percent have already been changed. That's exactly the disadvantage. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I'm appealing to you: Voices You're not too close to that! They create the Austrian postfuchs. And one thing I would also like to say to you, Mr Heinzl: No one has closed a post office from this FPÖ here. [[Abg. Heinzl: Well, who?- Oh, my God!]] No one! Then contact another party!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8750	Mr. Dr. Kräuber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8772	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Minister! Mr. Vlimsky, you should dry your crocodile tears. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Who locked something up?]] Yeah, do you think the population has such a short memory? – Minister Schmid, Minister Forstinger, Minister Reichhold, Minister Gorbach; this is the blue-orange-striped troupe, which ultimately threatened the Austrian Post and almost ruined it. You should admit that and humbly agree with this new law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hagen: On 30. April 1996 you started! Don't be child-moving!]] Let's take a look back to the years 2000 to 2006! The population is rightly outraged: Thousands of closures have been made. And the postal services are rightly frustrated: never recognition, ever more stress and pressure. At this point it is really appropriate, ladies and gentlemen: In the most adverse circumstances, the ladies and gentlemen of the post have done their job. A warm thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Or: a sensible infrastructure policy in the interests of the rural population. Black and blue orange, how was your policy? - That's what it said: Make it easy, companies! Laisser-fair, liberal economic policy, to the stock exchange! Lock up – get out on the devil! Staff reduction – no problem! Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to ask the mayor. This is the situation that finally found the SPÖ. And it was Werner Faymann, who said: Stop! It can't go on like this. In reality, he has just led this six-month moratorium in the way. Congratulations, Mrs Bures! They then made it possible for a modern postal market law to be developed, which for the first time guarantees comprehensive supply. Support from the company, from Post AG? On the contrary! “Last minute” should have closed hundreds of post offices. And in the context of the decision that forbids this, is very interesting, which the Constitutional Court of Justice has given to the company: The postal market consists not only of postal operators but also of customers. It is already curious and tragic that a company must be directed by the Constitutional Court that it should also take into account customers. And, of course, the coalition partner, the ÖVP, was always fully responsible. The ÖIAG is 52 percent under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Who's the extended arm? There we come again to the unscrupulous Mr. Dr. Michaelis. What did he do in connection with the mail? He has done something, because the only thing that has come from him has been to try to get Austrian Post AG to Germany – by the way without a government order. Otherwise, he didn't do anything at all. Now I wonder what the ÖIAG is for: for the Telekom, for the OMV, where we know that all of these companies are making a wide curve around Michaelis and the ÖIAG. A completely pointless structure will be maintained. The “Transfer Account ÖIAG” might be a rewarding clause and the question: Why must the taxpayer, the taxpayer, continue to transfer millions to these senseless ÖIAGs? – This should be done by the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, as the population expects this ghost to end at the beginning of 2010. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Ferdinand Maier – I do not see him now, but he will probably look into the catacombs of the house –: They have spoken of disorientation. - That's cool. ==References== In November 2009, you sent the following – I may quote –: ‘Maier: Post-market law ensures fair conditions of competition’. The same Maier says on 11 May. November 2009: “Postmarktgesetz – ÖVP infrastructure speaker Maier fears distortion of competition”. [[Abg. Hagen: That’s almost like “By Faymann”!]] In reality, one can only say: Man Maier, 11.11., carnival beginning! Do you actually remember how ridiculous you are?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Grosz: This is your own coalition partner?- Oh, my God!]] And there's been a dacapo and a job today. This is where Mr Maier makes himself and criticises a law in the ground, which he will decide here in just over an hour. [[Abg. Grosz: Could you not do that in the Coalition Committee? In the group mediation?]] I find the motives elsewhere. I guess that's a personal frustration. But please do not cut it down here in Parliament, but where it belongs, namely in the Vienna ÖVP country party! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Congratulations! It is really a very successful act that we are going to decide here today: Guarantee for comprehensive postal services, participation of local authorities, fair conditions in competition, secure collective contracts – that is especially important that there is no dumping wages – and the cost of the house-booking facilities will not be borne by homeowners or tenants. That is, I believe, a great achievement. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8897	Mr Tadler has now come to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8919	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Mr. Herbs, the stamping started in 1996, you can read it. But I'm glad the carnival broke out in the big coalition. You know what I mean. One is in the catacombs and the other is still in the plenary session. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] On the matter. My last real Salzburg Postler, said Packerlzusser, celebrated his 60 yesterday. birthday. – Congratulations from this point of view and still a lot of health! Sixty-year-old poster! Tomorrow I'll go to bed, he told me. Once again, I congratulated you. Ergo probably won't even interest you in the new postal law again, I told him. Probably everything will be privatized anyway and the private take everything, was his laconic comment. Now to the committee. There it happened between the government parties about as well as now. The proponents of popular desire “Stop the post-absorbing” were indeed loaded. “More human being – less party” has called it from the side of the Christian trade unionists. More people! By the way, in Salzburg it was the best result of popular desire with 4.67 percent. Congratulations! The EIAs were worth the total number of 140 582 votes in committee. – Thank you to the signers, ladies and gentlemen! From 2011, instead of 2013 as in other EU countries, the postal market will now be completely liberalised. As always, we are the EU pattern students. – Thank you, Federal Chancellor Faymann. That was still in his responsibility, at the time he was still Minister of Infrastructure. For Manfred Wiedner, the service agent of the popular desire, the responsibilities for the postal market law in the government were marked with a large number of questions. The ball will be pushed back and forth again, Mr Mayor – you were also in the committee – and I say that the balls in the committee have been shot down and down at a breathtaking speed. Mr Wiedner said that 1 650 postal service stations are allowed to write to you. The closing of the post offices is open door and gate. And something else, Mrs. Federal Minister: We from the BZÖ want full clarity about which post offices are still to be locked. For example, in a small Pongauer municipality, where the letter or postal parcel statistics have been automatically added to another municipality. That is not how it can be done, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Opening hours are shortened to 20 hours. This doesn't work with 10 day sausages and semis and with financial services to sell them. Nor is it with one, as Mr Vilimsky said, three-day training. It'll be a little too little. Austria is not the Netherlands, Mrs Minister, after you have determined that there should be a comprehensive supply. We from the BZÖ demand high-quality delivery of postal services – this is required in our request – of course in the interest of the population and also of the economy. According to Mr Andreas Schieder – you may still know the former SPÖ member – there are still 130,000 post workers. You should stay real posters, like my new post boardist was one who flew up and down the stairs, mostly on the third floor and with lots of packages in hand. My colleagues and I have asked many interesting questions in committee. There are usually few answers from the Minister. How many post offices are still closed? - You said 800. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] We don't need any supply gaps like now. Because of the soaring pig flu there were already such supply gaps in a Salzburg district, Mr. Cap, that no more letters could be delivered. We want customer-oriented security of supply and not just profit ceilings. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who made this text?]] – From me, Mr. Cap, you full humorist! Of course, we will not agree to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8989	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9011	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Minister of State! Dear colleagues in the House! We are discussing today's post-popular desire. I am very pleased that we also have colleagues on this subject from the staff representation of the post here. I can only say that I have rarely experienced such a qualified discussion in the Committee as the one with Manfred Wiedner who has brought it in. He argued well for his cause. The Committee's meeting was at a level that was quite right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have resolved a number of points with the reform of our postal market law, where it has been shown in recent times that they may not have been well thought out during the last reforms. But one thing has also come out quite clearly: The 2 300 postal offices, which once existed, do not want Mrs Bures again, because we know that the post is in a competitive situation today, in a very changed environment. It is about keeping the post competitive in the long term and keeping one of the most important service providers in our infrastructure so on the market that people really have something of it, on the one hand those people who work in the mail, and on the other hand the people who use these services. Especially the post is a service organization that has to be served from the big economy to the logistics, to the financial economy to my people in the countryside, until, I say once, Grandma, who is waiting for the pension, all, and this shows me that we have to deal with the post very differentiatedly. It is true that the post is on the one hand in a tough competition, on the other hand, but also in the competition of kindness, if I may say so, because today it is just so that there are the postal services, but also the postal partners. We see that the same service can be provided in different environments and also with the aspect of kindness. Be honest, not every post office has been quite optimal on the go, not every post partner has done it quite well, but we now see that those who have recognized the signs of time and who today see the customers as customers and really strive for the customers. The new rules really give us a good guidance for this. With the new law, I believe, there is a clear indication of how to proceed in the future. On the other hand, we know that the postal partners, the service providers that offer postal services within the framework of other activities of the population, can also expect fair conditions from the postal service. It is about the postal staff knowing that they can expect fair conditions. To be honest, my letter carrier at home is at my heart and should know that it is important to me that this law is an ordinary law that also gives him the opportunity to do his work the way they do people who work in a proper legal system with a good collective contract. And I want collective agreements to apply in this area, and I therefore very much welcome the results of the joint negotiations. Also for postal customers, it is ensured that the supply is possible in good quality. It should not be forgotten that it is not only about their existence, but also about the good quality of supply, because competition is open and open in all areas next year. There's nothing we need to think about. Whoever is not good is left. The post can't be so strong that there won't be others who will offer some kind of performance and maybe will also be successful. That's why: It is important that we all work together from management to employees and post partners to ensure that the quality is such that the Austrians can be satisfied with it, and that security is guaranteed on the one hand, but also economic success on the other. It's about the best possible infrastructure. This is an important location factor and a factor of quality of life. That is why I am very glad that we are putting this law in place, and I am very grateful to the staff representative for having made such important contributions to the discussion that, in the end, there has been a good outcome. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9077	Mrs Mag. Honey's coming to terms now. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9098	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The new liberalised postal market is also a new labour market with completely new working conditions, and I would like to draw your attention to that. Let me take a look back and make it clear: All of them here, ÖVP, BZÖ, FPÖ and SPÖ, were and are responsible for this in the responsible governments of the last decade. They all managed and managed to create an entire sector with good jobs, as far as insurance protection is concerned, in terms of fair pay – and I am speaking here of modest remuneration when looking at the figures – of jobs with a good structure of representation of interests and also of a good women's equality policy, as it is, in the public sector, in contrast to the private sector, rather possible, they have managed to disassemble this good labour market gradually and to ruin the quality of jobs. [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: The Greens have no responsibility!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] This is your responsibility because of your privatisation and liberalisation policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No, Mr Herzegovina, it was the SPÖ that launched the privatisation of the post. We know history, and I hope you do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So, and how does it look on the job market now? They all know them, the men who hop out of their car, run to the door, deliver the package, hand it down, and as soon as they come, they've already gone. These are suppliers of private delivery companies. Mrs. Minister, 90 percent of these suppliers are self-employed, self-employed, I say, because they do not have their own small business, but they are only paid if they really work. That is, they will not be paid if they are sick, they will not be paid if they are on vacation, that is, they have no holiday entitlement. And what do these people deserve? – With their daily or piece fees – and studies prove this – they come to €800 to 900 a month, and for that they still have to insure themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how the new liberalised postal market looks like: precarious working conditions, mostly employment without insurance protection and the worst payment. I would like to make it clear that we Greens consider this situation totally unacceptable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly called on the former Minister of Infrastructure Faymann and the current Minister of the Interior Bures to intervene, but we were all comforted, we should wait for what is now the new postal market law. We were promised so much. I quote you, Mrs. Minister, today you say it again: The Post-Market Act is a clear rejection of wage and social dumping. But, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you, this promise is wrong. It's a deception maneuver. This law has absolutely nothing to do with the fact that the mail market now to be privatised will have similar conditions of employment, as is already the case in the private parcel delivery sector. This promise is wrong, it's a deception maneuver. Number one deception: They speak of collective agreements to be applied. – To do this, you do not need a law and above all: The collective agreements to be applied may be chosen by the employer, the minimum wages being in none of which higher than €1,200 gross. Above all, 90 percent of these collective contracts have absolutely nothing. Ladies and gentlemen! The postal market is today a low wage sector with unprotected precarious employment conditions. Your postal market law does not change anything. Mrs Bures, you have refused to talk to us about a legal minimum wage. They have refused to establish that private postal service providers must provide their services via self-employed employment. You refused all of this. Ladies and gentlemen, with this postal market law, the government is abandoning all employees in the postal market! We Greens do not, and therefore we will by no means agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9176	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner. 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9197	Madam President. Dear Mrs Colleague! Ladies and gentlemen! I can say from our side of the government in representation of the non-governmental Secretary Reinhold Lopatka that this is a very tangible and reasonable result, to which we stand of course. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Olympians: You're poor at it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also do not believe that the occasion and content of today's law can necessarily be the substance for any heroic sagas and are suitable for accounting with the system according to the motto of good and evil. I should like to draw attention to what Mr Strache said: There has been the evil EU, to which we always have to show ourselves as model students and imitate everything, quoted and the occasion for this regulation. It is true, but the occasion goes one step further: It has to do with the fact that the post-monopol will just expire in 2011 and therefore a new regulation is absolutely necessary. And the new regulation has to bring clarity and orientation, not only for the post, but possibly also for other providers in the competition. If you now make all that this legislative initiative now in place liable for a certain development, then, I must say, this cannot be quite agreeable, because this development, which has been addressed by several of you, has been in place for about 15 years, because it is simply not cost-effective to work by one visitor per day with this organisational structure and at a customer visit frequency, that the cost-benefit principle cannot be met, on whatever basis of law. Therefore, there has been this trend towards closures because it was no different market practice. If there is a law here and today, it is at least one that is going to bring this uncertainty to an end quite clearly, what is still going to happen to closures, to change. This is also our approach: There's security, there's clarity. Above all, an approach is very important, it gives security for the population: It ensures the comprehensive provision of postal services. This applies not only to the big city area, but also to the land area. As you are just saying that the post is still the universal service provider, I also have to say that the problem is that about ten kilometres of pensioners cannot cope with an artificial problem, because exactly there is this coverage. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] That is not the real problem. This is the one approach: comprehensive coverage guaranteed by the post office and its postal partners. But from my point of view, I have to tell you one thing: It is a great model that offers itself to our businesses, the companies. They partly have up to €15 000 additional sales. [[Calls:Where]] But, of course, it's possible to think that I'm saying that's a great franchise concept that the mail offers. On the other hand, the provider, namely the post office, has to ask himself if he offers in the right organisational structure, in the right cost structure, because economy is needs coverage. And if you can't do it yourself, but perhaps only others need it, you urgently need a reorganisation concept. But this is obviously possible on this basis now because clarity exists because security exists. Secondly, of course, the point of approach you have probably followed in the media is not only the comprehensive security for consumers, but also the question of access to competition. And there are others in the competition, not only the mail that also wants to deliver the performance. And they say: Is it really necessary to establish a concession system? Would it not have been possible to implement a notification system in the form and thus also to open up access? I'm telling you, I'm on the concession system. It's not one thing who offers, it's a certain quality necessary. This is guaranteed by our implementation, but it also allows others access. And precisely the supply of remote areas, including this sales model, where a kind of fund solution is created over 1 million, can actually be seen from the cost reduction exactly those that also have revenue. So there is the universal service, the comprehensive supply and competitive conditions quite well implemented. Therefore: We have security here on the one hand. We also have the orientation on the second side. And the third – what Mrs Schatz has addressed – is also the employee situation. We have the collective agreement. The collective agreement applies to those who are now in the system, but also applies to all future employees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Honey.]] If you define responsibility in this way, Mrs. Colleague, that you never have responsibility because you have never been in a government, then I must say you will never have responsibility. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You can assume responsibility according to the motto of what is good and what is bad, according to material circumstances. This might be an approach which is quite different and not based on political small and medium-sized enterprises. This is the background to this measure: Of course, collective contractual partners can also increase. Now I also tell you the following about the satisfaction of customers, because you always quote them: We have an investigation by Mrs Karmasin from October of 2009, i.e. a month ago. After that, the satisfaction of the customers with the services of the post partners is more than 80 percent. And do you know what is especially praised? – In particular, the accessibility on Wednesday – longer than 6 pm – and the opening on Saturday are praised. I admit that in one point or another, one can still improve the system, precisely as far as registered letters and the like are concerned. But it is a good system that may also stimulate the main provider, perhaps also to set the service conditions according to what the customer wants. Ladies and gentlemen, I am already in the summary: This is an implementation that has been carried out in a very realistic manner, which in principle gives the consumer security, which enables the economy to participate in competitive conditions, but also the provision of postal services. Faith I don't know what you're talking about. It would be the worst thing if someone could be here today and say, or make an broadcast, that he had won with his interests that the interests had come to a breakthrough unfiltered. This also applies to the newspaper publishers and all those who have quite proper exceptions, who also allow delivery. But if unfiltered representation of interests were to be established today, it would not be a good rule, because this regulation requires a balance of all interests. This is guaranteed by this implementation, and we stand by it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9278	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I declare that the overall speaking time is not 14, but 12 minutes per group until 1 p.m. Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Königshofer. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9302	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Federal Minister Mitterlehner, the message I hear well, I alone lack faith! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Tadler.]] And I'm going to tell you why. There is anger and despair over the new postal market law – this is how a newspaper writes. And it's right, because people in this country feel that the traditional post office, with the traditional postal system, an important infrastructure element in our country, is being destroyed in our state. Where a post is, there are people, there are spaces, there are communication facilities, there are vehicles, there are more facilities there than you will find in any post partner institution – whatever that may be. And that's being destroyed by this postal market law. I am now bringing you a quote from an ÖVP politician who says: This EU directive needs to be implemented, whether it is useful and correct for our country or not. – This is said by the Tyrolean Labour Chamber President Erwin Zangerl, known as an ÖVP man, and he is not wrong with that. I am also curious about what the SPÖ National Councillor and, at the same time, mayor will say here today, who has stated in the Committee that it was a painful experience for him when two post offices in his community had to be closed. I deliberately say “post offices” because this is of a different importance than post offices or anything else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Josef Auer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we should ask ourselves what the post will look like in ten years' time under this law. This is the question here – not only after Shakespeare, but also in the Austrian Parliament. According to this law, there are 1 650 post offices. But among these “post offices ” are not post offices or post offices, but post offices and postal partners. It doesn't matter if there are such or such, so many should exist in total. The initiators of popular desire have said in the Committee that under this law weighting will move enormously towards postal partners and in ten years there will hardly be a proper post office in Austria. – That is not what we want, ladies and gentlemen! We do not just want to have gas stations, snacks and so on as post offices, according to the motto: Mail delivery at Kebab stand! We do not want to do that, so we reject this law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the letter delivery: My predecessors, Strache and Vilimsky, have also asked: How will the letter delivery take place in the future? – There will be some postal companies – redmail, yellowmail, greenmail, bluemail, as they all might be called; an English name will naturally find so-called Turnpatschenbrigaden and make the postal delivery, according to the motto: If you've got a patch from Nike, you're allowed to hate for the redmail! – Ladies and gentlemen, this is not desirable either. If you recruit many foreigners in these distribution services today or tomorrow, there is a risk that a lot of recipients will not be found and postage will disappear in the dungy. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by pointing out the latest developments in Japan. In Japan, the new government of the Democratic Party has cancelled the launch of postal market liberalisation. I'm allowed to quote: “The privatisation of the Japanese Post was actually decided.” – By the Liberal Democratic Party, which was elected. – But the new Japanese government... Hatoyama decided to stop privatisation, whose first victim is now the head of Japan Post Holdings, Nishikawa. Further Boards will follow at the end of the month.” Reason: “The new Japanese government under the leadership of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) is now setting up its turnaround with the preservation of post offices in the villages in the country. Many older Japanese pick up their pensions at the post desk. A restriction of services has contributed to an uneven development between country and city, the government of the new Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama argues. Now, according to the DPJ's will, the post will be restructured again. This is how uniform services are to be offered in the postal, banking and insurance business.” – Quotes. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! We should also consider this in Austria, and therefore we reject this bill and wish for a new period of thought.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9396	Before I'm a woman Mr Binder-Maier, I would like to draw attention to the fact that during this voluntary speaking time, I do not ‘end’, but only at the last one/the last one, when the 12 minutes are exhausted. Mrs Binder-Maier, I put the clock at 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9421	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Watchers! The Yellow Post, the Postfuchs is a piece of identity of the people in Austria; we also stand. However, there was a need for some clean-up work so that the Minister could present today's postal market law, which guarantees that postal services will continue to be provided in Austria. Dr. Königshofer, the privatisation was initiated in 2006, she is part of this law. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: In Japan too!]] The Minister was very concerned to reorganise, regulate and reach the best possible political compromise. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: That's the worst!]] I think it is not a matter of spreading uncertainty – that has already been said by Mr Mitterlehner – but of ensuring security. I repeat four essential points, which are very essential in the law and which the Minister of the Interior is very important: first point: comprehensive provision of the post and other post office; second point: fair competition; third point: fair service contracts – I refer to § 27 in the government template, where it is clearly established that the collective contract is to be applied – and fourth point: the costs for the house letter facilities are not to be borne by tenants. It is important that sites are maintained, that provision is ensured, that employees find proper employment conditions and that customers are still satisfied, that they receive their mail and, vice versa, that they can also benefit from postal services.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9470	Next, Mr Linder. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9492	Thank you, Madam President. Minister! Minister! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! But especially dear friends from my home town Afritz am See! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Prince.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, if I hear here today in plenary that the ÖVP is permanently correcting you that you have no idea of the economy, I still understand. But if she can also judge you that you are bad personnel representatives, your suffering capacity is very high and your anxiety is very low. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – This is really funny, Mrs. Colleague! If we are talking about postal market law today, we must take into account that the EU, we know, is in favour of a free market economy, that it is important for the EU to have as few rules as possible and free a market as possible – that is why it does not want a monopoly either. On the other hand, it also says that it is very important for the regions and rural areas to be preserved. I think it is important for the government and the state to take accompanying measures to ensure that the regions are preserved that the quality of life in rural areas is maintained for citizens. In 2007, the decision to liberalize the postal market was taken, and it is a pity that he did not do anything at all at the time infrastructural minister Faymann. On the contrary, he has still said that he is not responsible for this, although a balding of the infrastructure has threatened, although the post threatened to release 9 000 employees at the time, although the post threatened to close another 1 000 post offices. Mr Bures, first of all, said: Stop, stop the lockdown! Unfortunately, it was then that the post offices concerned reduced the opening hours, partially locked up, and today partially did not even open for more than 20 hours. What do we expect now with this new postal market law? – Unfortunately, the 1 650 postal markets are not assigned and defined regionally. I believe that in rural areas we will again be those who lose. It is also true, however, that the regulation with the 10 kilometers and the 10 minutes driving time, which are fixed, is unfortunately already partially no longer to be observed today and many older people today are unable to come to the post offices. It's gonna get worse: People will no longer have a chance to pick up their pension, and many people will no longer get the mail within the time they should receive it. That is why, Mrs Minister, we should reconsider this postal law. The opening hours are also not regulated in the new postal market law. We do not know how long private operators will be open, which opening hours they will be offering and how private operators will deal with the situation if they no longer have to get over the rounds financially and then lock. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that in many areas private individuals may even be able to offer better and more service, but, Mrs Minister, it is not regulated what happens when a private person gets into the situation of not being able to afford the postal service anymore or some business that locks some kind of traffic. – I hope there will be a post office that will lock up again. Very often, the mayor is called upon to take over the communities. They're supposed to be the post office. But, ladies and gentlemen, you know that because of our financial situation it is not possible to offer this service. [[Abg. Gahr: Sad!]] . I believe that the Tyroleans were the ones who rejected Mrs Minister's proposal. Be honest and stand by it too! [[Abg. Gahr: But We have churches that work!]] It may be that you can afford it financially. We therefore call on the BZÖ to make every effort to maintain infrastructure in the countries, rural areas, to provide quality of life for rural people and to provide infrastructure, and to ensure solidarity between the city and the country. We in the country offer a lot of people from the cities recreation area, intact nature, and also for tourism, I think, we do a lot. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We call on the government to provide infrastructure so that we can either maintain public transport or provide adequate transport. I refer here to the very successful model of the GO-MOBIL in Carinthia. We will also need something to ensure that the people in our rural areas come to the post offices. Or we get financial resources to set up and, above all, operate the post offices in the municipal offices. In all cases, rural infrastructure must be maintained so that people continue to like to stay with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9560	Mr Rädler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9583	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a broad spectrum – both of rejection and of consent – of this new postal market law. I have respect for the staff representatives who have adopted themselves in the interests of their colleagues on this issue and who have also introduced it to the Committee on a broad basis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In democracy and the democratic rules of the game, it must not always be that what you have done is fulfilled, but that is what the result is. I believe that this result is reflected in those objectives that will be necessary at European level from 2011 onwards in order to give post and postal services a chance to survive and thus also to supply in rural areas. I do not see at all that, if you have multiple accesses, you choose the one where you act polemically and so on the motto: if you were there, you were not there – I am already away, you are already there again, you have called it – acting; now it is said: was it not, was it – in this decision-making, by which 800 post offices were locked. But I also admit that there have been solutions, and very positive ones. An example of this is a community in my constituency – there is already evidence that this is not a question of the estuary of rural areas or the neglect of small communities. This municipality, with 4,000 inhabitants, has already benefited from the possibility of maintaining the offer by a post-partner, a Trafikant. This was necessary because the post office was locked because it did not count for 4,000 inhabitants. Therefore, it cannot now be said that this is a cave in the rural area. I am convinced that with this opportunity that we offer, the supply that is expected from a functioning post will continue to be represented in rural areas in the future – whether this is a post office or a post-partner; there are enough effective examples. Today, we have heard that, according to the October survey, 80 percent of customers are satisfied, and 80 percent of post offices in our neighbouring country Germany are post partners. So not negative, but positive thinking – for customers and for rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9632	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9654	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, we've heard a lot. But I'm interested in a question: Is it possible with the proposed liberalisation to ensure the functioning provision of postal services: yes or no? [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP:Yes!]] They answer the question quite clearly, already almost reflexively with Yes. I am just telling you – and it has already been pointed out in the debate – that Japan and New Zealand are reversing their post-privatisation. Although the archaic of capitalism, the USA, has a post with a private form of organization, as well as a state monopoly for the post – the USA. The Labour Government in the UK would like to take in private shares in the Royal Mail. There is a bitter labour struggle in the UK. The result is predictable: It is likely that no private shareholder will be able to participate in the Royal Mail. The Royal Mail remains the sole monopolistic provider. And you say, Okay, yeah, no – we're doing great with liberalisation. I ask you: Is it really so great if you need to pick up the parcels, instead of a few years ago, from the post office, now at six or seven different service providers scattered across your place or through neighboring towns or in Vienna throughout the district? While you often don't know from one month to the other whether the acceptance site of a private service provider is still there or not already three streets have migrated. Is that great? Is it great if these services are provided by six different trucks that are controlled in the case of private service providers of barbers who can't even find out with their job and who, although they have to work from early to late, earn 800 or 900 €? – And then you say: We have a functioning supply!Unknown term type: "%s".? I'll give you an example from my home town, from the Inn district. I've been looking at this on the list now. In the district of Altheim all post offices have been closed: in Polling, in Weng, in Mining, in Mühlheim, what do I know, where else. If a resident of Weng or Polling now wants to pick up his business at the post office, his letter, how does he come to Altheim? There is no public transport there. Nothing, absolutely nothing. [[Call the ÖVP:Postbus!]] –Don't come with me with the mailbox, there's none! You know that. You should know that. Or if a mailbox drives, then once a day. Thus, a functioning supply is not guaranteed. It has already been said by the Minister that there have been liberalisation for a number of years now, and we should actually take this as an opportunity to look at whether it works. - I'd say she doesn't work. It doesn't work, liberalisation! The concept one has pursued was not only to increase the quality – that is certainly not true – but also to reduce prices – that is certainly not true. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, therefore take this as an occasion and say goodbye in good time to a concept of liberalisation, which will certainly not increase the quality of postal services, but will continue to lower!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9700	Now comes Mrs. Mag. Lohfeyer. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9732	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the liberalisation of the postal market until 1. In January 2011, appropriate framework conditions will be required. This is in line with this Act, which aims to ensure the comprehensive basic provision of services in sufficient quality and at affordable prices. It also includes detailed provisions for the conclusion of postal offices and requires the post to maintain universal services through contracts with other partners. It was under the Black and Blue Government, when rural thinning was continued, particularly in structurally weak regions, by means of postal closures. I well remember the concerned calls from mayors and local authorities and the numerous protest demonstrations in many communities in 2006 and 2007. In Salzburg, 134 post offices were closed 47. [[Abg. New builder: Talk about the future, Mrs. Colleague! The future makes us rich!]] Around half of these could be replaced by post-partners, service stations or mobile offices. With the modesty of Minister Bures from June and August 2009, the closure of more than 300 post offices in Austria was successfully prohibited and confirmed by the Constitutional Court. Minister Bures has used all legal instruments to prevent further thinning of postal services, and it is positive that for the first time a legal obligation to provide comprehensive postal services has been established. Mr Linder, with regard to the opening hours, I would like to say that it is now possible in all post offices to shorten the opening time and this has happened in very many post offices. According to the new law, it will only be possible to shorten the opening hours in 10 percent of all postal offices. Studies and reports show that the previous experience with postal partners and service agencies is quite different. I think the concerns and critical assessments must be taken seriously. The success of the postal market law will also depend on the commitment and conscience of all those involved in the implementation. To stop further privatisation and careless profit-making at the expense of people and the quality of life in rural areas, we are today giving a clear signal.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9769	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9790	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! If you listen to my colleague Maier and herbs, they're no longer scenes of a marriage, they're almost scenes of divorce. Nevertheless, one cannot speak of a master's achievement – not of a master's achievement in the sense of legislation, perhaps of a master's achievement in the sense of waiting or closing the eyes. If Mrs. Federal Minister Bures says that past uncertainty is now ending, I will allow myself to ask myself: Where does this uncertainty come from? – From the eighties and nineties, in which the foundations of privatisation were laid, with the transformation – which has already been mentioned today – of the former post and telegraph administration. ==References== May 2006 the exchange took place, so to speak, the final line of privatisation – well, I already know that colleagues from the government groups sometimes fail to make the color distinction Blue/Orange, but only when it fits them tactfully – was at that time not a freeman in the Ministry of Finance and not in the Ministry of Infrastructure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today, when it is said by red and black again and again that the country has to live, I can point out: This law is, in fact, only a fixed definition of the thinning of rural infrastructure – no longer, but also no less. Let's come to the post office as a service provider. – It has already been mentioned today about the security by collective agreements for the staff. I don't think that's worth even the paper it says when we talk about the fact that Scheinselbände is supposed to provide a throw service on the doorsteps. The same applies to the house letter boxes: The law will enter into force in 2011 and the exchange will be planned until 2013. How does this work with the alternative postal providers from 2011 to 2013? – This is not yet regulated. [[Abg. Weinzinger:... the newly introduced housemasters then!]] Then we come to the point of corruption. This also plays a role today, and it is not about how Austria, as today in the “Press”, is slipping down to the 16th place in the corruption index of 11th place in the ranking. I am not talking about corruption in connection with the fact that some ministry is switching an advertisement into a newspaper, but I am talking about companies switching ads and a few pages before, on pages 1 and 2, in the same medium a positive report takes place. Here we also have to do with such a similar thing, namely the “Lex Mediaprint”, by which the media print as the sole owner of a supplier is legally possible to continue to supply its products. In my opinion, “Lex Mediaprint” is a point of corruption protection. The scope and duration of the universal service are equally unclear. While Mr Maier of the ÖVP is still considering whether mass shipments that are abandoned at the distribution center are not covered by the Universal Service Act and what this has for alternative providers for consequences, others are quite clearly considering what it means when in five years perhaps the post is no longer the universal service provider. We need high-quality, comprehensive and affordable postal services and not urban gymnasiums that perform a throw service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9839	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9860	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! We have to implement the third EU Postal Directive, and I believe that this is important. We welcome this also from the economy, because with this liberalisation – and that is essential, the Minister has already tailored it – we give security. We need these, and we also need a competition. This competition is good for the post, it is good for entrepreneurs, and it is also good for customers. If we take the example of the telecommunications industry, we can see that we have benefited from it: It has benefited the business location, it has benefited customers, and it has benefited Austria. And this is of great importance for the economic location! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we decide today on this postal market law, we must of course also say from the economy that not all demands are fulfilled, but it is a compromise. It is a compromise with which we can live, and it is above all a compromise that ensures the comprehensive coverage of the postal market. In particular, I would like to say one thing about the Freedom Party as far as the postal partners are concerned: I do not think that this respectable treatment should be deserved by these companies, which are very committed to securing the postal partnership and postal services in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is the entrepreneurs who are the backbone of the economy at this difficult time, and therefore it is very important that we ensure the comprehensive postal service in a partnership between Post AG and these postal partners. And I say again: Entrepreneurs do not do this between any sausages, but they take on their entrepreneurship responsibility! [[Abg. Weinzinger: But they also have to sell sausages! That's what they're living on!]] They do so in their daily operations in the workplace, and they do so, Mr President, in the provision of postal services. I know that from my region, too. For example, the mayor of the municipality of Stahlfelden in Salzburg, Sonja Ottenbacher, a very committed mayor in this region, has also told me that she is very pleased with this postal service. There, a small business company, the Altenberger family, offers this postal service, and this leads – it has also noted in the municipality – to a high satisfaction of customers, the population, a high satisfaction but also of the entrepreneur, who thereby has a frequency increase and, of course, a better turnover. This is gratifying because it is a win-win situation for both the population and the business community. I think ladies and gentlemen, we should just take one thing to heart: It only goes with one another, on the one hand with the partner Post and on the other hand with the entrepreneurs of Austria – then the post will continue to bring something to everyone!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9918	Mr Jury is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9939	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! As Mayor of the Cultural and Artists City Gmünd with a total of 2 750 inhabitants would not agree to this postal market law. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I will not agree to this post-market law because your representatives, your trade unionists, the proponents of the “stop the post-absorbing” popular desire, say that if this presentation is decided in this form today, there will no longer be a single post office in Austria in ten years. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, whether such statements are ringing and yelling at me the alarm bells. The rural area is largely diluted, the policy of the EU's corporations is planning a massive attack on our Austria with this postal market law and with this liberalisation of the postal market in 2011. Rural areas will no longer be viable in the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] First, at the expense of security, the police have disappeared – now the post offices disappear. What's going on? Small-structured trade disappears, the retailer disappears. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, do you not see the alarm bells for our Austria, for rural Austria? [[Abg. New builder: We don't see them, but hear them! We hear her!]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Listen, don't see!]] Mr Heinzl! You have shown yourself in the Committee as a wonderful representative of your satisfaction. It passes through like a red thread: Where trade unionists are at work, businesses are being driven into the ground “consum”, ÖBB, BAWAG – now the post is in place. [[OBJECTIVES]] I don't know who will be in the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from the BZÖ have tabled the following motion for a resolution on this post-market law, which we do not agree with and which we shall not approve:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10045	The application is filed and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10104	Now, Mr Mag. Mag. Kuzdas. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10125	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr. Jury! You have forgotten the Hypo Alpe-Adria in the list. [[Abg. Petzner: But it belongs to Bavaria, my colleague. – The BAWAG belongs to you!]] Today, we are discussing the comprehensive provision of postal services to the population, the postal market law and the “Stop the post-trafficking” initiative – and I congratulate colleagues from the postal union on this initiative. If you look at the state of the ist, you also need a small look at the rear mirror, and I think some, even Mrs. Honey, have given something of themselves, and they should have researched better. The distribution of postal and telegraph management took place at 1. ==References====External links== January 1998. By 2006 Post AG was 100% owned by the state, and it was only introduced to the stock exchange in 2006. This so-called fitness programme has fallen victim to over 300 post offices in Lower Austria and 1,000 throughout Austria. These were the years of the unsuccessful Minister Schmid, Forstinger, who was more noticed by the Minirock Act than by transport policy, followed by the short minister Reichhold, the space expert of Frank Stronach, and finally by the “The world in Vorarlberg is too small” minister Hubert Gorbach. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Because you don't think otherwise!]] He will also remember us – but with his blue light wish for the service vehicle and his efforts to speed 160 on the motorways. But also that minister, who was the owner, Karl-Heinz Grasser, who went up to the crystal gate, even wanted to scrap parts of the post to the German Post! This has led a successful ÖVP-near post board director to throw the towel because he did not see it. And now opposition politicians stand out – I can't even criticize you from the Greens now, because you regularly refuse any responsibility, but the other opposition politicians – and say: We have had nothing to do with it in the past! [[Abg. New builder: No one said that!]] – Mr Strache is one who is a man without a past anyway. – And you can't let that sit on you. [[Abg. New builder: Wake up! No one said that! - You have no idea! I don't know! - Just stupid!]] - Give it a rest! – The only minister who effectively fights against the closure and works to secure the post in that country is Transport Minister Doris Bures. It saved more than 300 post offices from closing, and this also stood before the Constitutional Court. That, I think, is a very, very important step. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One word to my colleague Maier – he's not here today. If the colleague Maier is on the road as a lobbyist of Raiffeisen, he has simply failed, for his goal is likely that more money services from the BAWAG-P.S.K. Go to Raiffeisen. This is not going to be the case with this postal market law. That is almost a reason for termination at Raiffeisen, Mr Maier. Take an example of the Federal Minister Mitterlehner, who defends and considers the postal market law to be good! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10237	Mrs Lichtenecker is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10258	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! With regard to one point, all political groups were united today, namely that postal and postal services represent an important infrastructure. But the question is: Is this postal market law going to meet these challenges and these requirements? - I don't think it's gonna be fair in any way. And if you are talking about comprehensive care and we are looking at the closing lists, for example in Upper Austria, then we have to find that this is no longer post offices in communities, where a postage stamp is implemented on the day, as the Minister has formulated, but these are already large communities such as Pasching, Steyregg, Unterweißenbach, Schwerberg, Thalheim – and this is just a small extract from a list of over 60 communities. If you now believe that these communities in Upper Austria are well-equipped, then you have been on the wood road for a long time. Of 444 municipalities, 184 have postal offices today – and a significant number of closures are still in progress. This important infrastructure is therefore further eroded. If today the post partners have been so much praised and raised to heaven, the question arises: What are the conditions? What are the principles? How attractive is it at all to become a post-partner? – There are no post-partners in Upper Austria for 30 post-offices! [[Abg. May. Molterer: There will be a reason for this!]] What's going to happen next? – What happened, we have experienced this in the last few days: The opening time has been further reduced. The opening time has been reduced to 12 o'clock in the afternoon. – So you really want to secure the infrastructure in rural areas? That's not gonna be possible! [[Abg. Neubauer: The Socialists kill everything!]] The rural regions already have to fight with lower incomes, higher unemployment, poorer infrastructure; people have to go on commuting. There is, of course, a huge problem, if you still go here and close your post offices, because the diversity of the offer also makes up the quality and liveliness of local cores. If there are no mail and no postal services in the place, the customers are missing. If the customers are missing, the business will die. And die the shops, then – you know that exactly – waste the cores; something that we have to fight with in many rural regions. And this very post-market law will strengthen this trend. I tell you, if the cores are lost so far – as a habitat, as a quality of life, as an economic space – then the result will be that the boys migrate, and there will be another downward trend in the rural regions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek]] If today it is quoted that 80 percent are satisfied with the post partners, then I look at what was held in the "Tyrol daily" of the weekend: Half of the post partners don't even have stamps, it's in the paper. They would have problems with the transfers and orders that this is not a rarity. Overall, the postal partners would take over at most half of the tasks of a normal branch. All this is not something that ensures quality, ladies and gentlemen! In principle, at least a few points must be made in this area for the months and years to come: These are the accessibility for customers and the quality criteria to ensure the performance and service for customers. Post-partners must have attractive framework conditions if they do so. In addition, a comprehensive evaluation is required. Mrs Minister, the present is too little for Weitem. It's going in the wrong direction. Sleeve on sleeves and get back to the start!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10324	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10346	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Mr Lichtenecker, you said that young people would emigrate from the regions and communities if there were only more post-partners. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: I didn't say that! If the thinning goes on!]] So I think whether a young person chooses to stay in the rural region does not depend on whether there is an independent post office or a post-partner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: This is a part of it!]] There are other reasons for this, and you know that. It is a bit ridiculous to present this as an argument. But I would like to go to a very different point anyway when it comes to postal services. The postal sector – as well as other infrastructure services – is a significant part of public services in the field of transport, telecommunications or the cultural sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger]] The liberalisation of the postal market is known to be based on a directive of the European Union on essential market-related activities that we want to see in the interest of the general public. The reduction of competition barriers or distortions is an essential aspect. I'd like to talk about it today. It is clear that many state enterprises must compete with private providers with the Europeanisation of economic rights. In the case of the post, this may also be the case in the letter area in the future. It is therefore necessary that some services of general interest are also provided by private individuals. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP is committed to fair competition and fair opportunities for all providers. Although we are convinced that the present postal market law could have improved our confidence, we will give our consent to the argument of general care, especially for rural areas. But let me also hold on to one thing: The responsibility for this law lies with the BMVIT, and the ÖVP club has already dealt with this legal matter very early – even with the involvement of experts. The concerns, Mrs. Federal Minister, are known to you. There are constitutional and European concerns, of postal service providers, of the postal service itself, and the hearing seems to be subject to reservations of the European Commission. Although there will be a joint decision-making today, I would ask you to take the concerns seriously. I would particularly like to point out a point which has been the subject of the negotiations at the end, namely § 2 of the law, the scope. It norms that, provided that they are wholly owned by publishing companies, they are excluded from the postal market law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] I believe – and the EIA has also repeatedly pointed out this fact – that postponing on participation relationships and not just on the nature of activity in different ways is problematic. According to representatives of the printing industry, the delivery of numerous Austrian titles is no longer secured in the future. I think that in any case there must be a satisfactory solution here. Daily and weekly newspapers have an important function of democracy policy. That is what you should know, Mrs Federal Minister, because you have been very numerously advertised in the recent past. In any event, I would like to see it in the interests of Austrian citizens, but especially the taxpayers, come to a healthy and fair competition on the postal market, so that the consumer – and that is what it is all about – has the free choice between different quality services. Maybe this is a pious wish, but Christmas is coming soon: May he go in fulfillment!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10427	Last round: SPÖ 4 minutes, ÖVP 2 minutes, all other 3 minutes. Mr Kunasek has now come to speak, exactly 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10451	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! I think the discussion today has shown that this postal market law is not undisputed and even the government parties are really not in agreement in some areas. I would like to make the last few days and weeks happen a little bit, including for the citizens, in order to show how some of the government's policies are being made here. Mrs Bures says that this law finally creates clarity, and it is actually all wonderful. We come to a committee where ÖVP says that you are responsible for this law, Mrs. Federal Minister. One almost distances oneself from this law and does not want to sit in the same boat at all – but then to agree to the committee and a day later, one should still talk about one point or another. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this is a zigzag course that no one really understands – neither anyone here in this house, nor the Austrians! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The positions of the SPÖ are also quite contradictory. On the one hand, there is the Transport Spokesman Anton Heinzl, whom I very much appreciate, who does not give an opportunity to scatter Mrs. Bures Rosen and to say how great the law is. On the other hand, there are also mayors – and I am glad that there are also committed mayors here in this House – who recognise problems, as happened in the committee on the part of the SPÖ. Nevertheless, the SPÖ agrees with this law without resistance, and the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, according to Roses. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a sentence still to the postal partners and to the post offices. We, our group, clearly note that a post-partner cannot provide the same services as the post offices. I believe that there are indeed cross-party opinions here that confirm this. And to Mr Haubner, who meant that you should not make the post partners bad: No, quite the contrary, there are enough examples of post partners who are not satisfied with the framework conditions! A final sentence on popular desire “Stop the post-harvest” with 140,000 signatures: I should like to congratulate you very warmly, but I should also like to make the following request, because this has not really arrived in this House. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I really urge you to: Support If you make this request, we shall jointly ensure that more than 140 000 signatures do not pass this House worthlessly! Take seriously the fears and concerns of these people!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10529	The application is filed and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10591	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10614	Madam President. Estimated government representatives on the government bank! Mr Mitterlehner, you have given me a keyword today. They have talked about good and evil in connection with the freedoms and EU policies they pursue. I would like to add one more word: They always promote the propriety for which we all, as I believe, represent parties represented in Parliament, of course, but if you always speak of decentness, then you should also stick to the truth! I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not already here again. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Where's Mr. Cap?]] What he said today does not meet his own requirements! He said, for example, that this law would not be kept before the EU, but on the other hand he wanted the number of own-owned post offices, so to speak, post offices, to be recorded in the Constitution. However, he is well aware that this would certainly be EU-problem and would also be rejected by the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Bullshit!]] So you are only doing a black and white policy, you are panicking, Mr Jury, if I remember your statements! That's just a black and white policy, that doesn't bring us any further! We must stick to the truth, that is decent, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Eben! So look in the mirror!]] If one speaks of facts, then one must say that our Minister, Mrs Bures, finally stopped the closure train, which, of course, was operated by the liberals in the form of a driver. We have heard today how many of them were you closed at the time, and how many Mrs Bures has prevented a closure this year. [[towards FPÖ]] The fact is: Many points of popular desire are implemented in the law, yes, some points in the law go beyond that. [[Abg. Neubauer: The weakest speech of all!]] So that wasn't for nothing. We do, I believe, a good policy for our people! – Thank you, Mrs Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10714	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10735	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! At the beginning: Do you know what is really annoying me and what annoys 140,000 Signatories, remembering the fact that a clubman of SPÖ like Josef Cap is talking about new parliamentaryism and democracy in this country? – 140,000 people support the post-popular desire – and here in this house it is not even ignored! This is not a form of dealing with the interests of the people of our country, even if people choose to participate in direct democracy through popular desire. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are constantly talking about the strengthening and self-determination of our citizens, that we want to inspire them for democracy, and then they sign a post-popular desire – I myself have signed it, at the Magistrate of Graz – and here in this House it is shubled and not even negated! What the Minister of Transport is presenting to us today is the exact opposite of what the supporters and supporters of the post-popular desire wanted. What is happening today and here is another attack on the rural area in Austria, in our districts, in our communities, in our federal states. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is in direct competition with the Sunday speeches of the ÖVP and also with the SPÖ, who are constantly talking about strengthening rural areas, when you lock hundreds of post offices across this area! The dirt with the post partners is also easy to see. The post office should be safe. The post office you're now blocking was sure that our citizens were safe to take care of. As far as the postal partners are concerned, I would like you to have fun if some of the postal partners were in economic difficulties and with him also the post office and the services that the post office would have had to provide in a community, in a region, in the Styrian communities, for example, where I come from, are completely equalized to the ground. That is why we have also tabled a motion for a resolution which is very clearly opposed to these tendencies. Yes, we are in favour of efficiency, yes, we are in favour of economy and also of a performance idea when tax money is in play and tax money is used to finance the welfare of the general public, but with this the public's general care is deeply weakened, because the post has a supply order that is important. However, we reject not only what is on the table today, but even this unkind of how this government deals with the countries, with rural areas. Example Steiermark: You delete the financing for the coral tunnel, you delete the post offices across the Styria – and what do we get? We get push centres and asylum reception centres. That can't be it: the head of water in Vienna smokes out the rural area and we in the municipalities in the countries then have to swallow the crotch for not being able to operate in the government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10807	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10829	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Brosz has just proved once again how to insure people with populism, insecurity in people. [[Abg. Grosz: Grosz, not Brosz! He's sitting over there!]] Mr Brosz, you are exaggerating, sending messages to people who simply do not vote! [[Abg. Grosz: Grosz, not Brosz!]] The post-population request was introduced, was discussed in the Committee. Today it has been reported that many have been involved, but some simply do not want to see the facts and the reality. The market has changed, the parcel market, the mail delivery market and the telecommunications market, the demands and the requirements are increasing, and one thing is quite clear: We're in the competition! With the postal market law, I think we give answers to this competition. There is a mix of post offices and post-partner offices. And I would like to say quite clearly: The postal partners strive, but also the post offices are trying to do so. I believe that this competition as a whole and among others should help to ensure the quality of service and general care. [[Abg. Grosz: They are not! You don't even believe what you say! That's not true! Why do you speak the untruth?]] Mr Grosz, you should not get out of here, ask for uncertainty and guarantees that it simply doesn't play anymore at this time! They talk about reality by and compare it with other things that are absolutely inappropriate! It is important for the future: We need good models that guarantee postal services! Today, we have country newsletters that guarantee real quality that will go to people and ensure service. We need competitive mail and infrastructure. You hear, the mail write bad numbers. – It is not so easy to demand and claim things if you have to finance the whole thing on the other hand. The post office is a public, stock exchange-oriented company, which has so far managed well and will continue to have a major mission in the future. That is why we agree to the postal market law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10895	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10916	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Today's morning is a model example of the double density of the government parties, especially on the side of the EIA. We hear of you mainly objections; I have heard what Mrs Fuhrmann has said here. It has hopefully put forward arguments against this law – the ÖVP will nevertheless agree. It is also interesting to note that Members from the countries, from certain valleys, will always insist on strengthening the rural situation. I recall the opinion of the Vorarlberg State Government, which says quite clearly – and I hope everyone has read it, including the Bregenz Forest Members, – that ensuring the comprehensive supply of rural areas with postal services is not sufficiently secure. – That, please, says the Vorarlberg State Government. I am excited how the ÖVP National Councillors will act from Vorarlberg, because: You haven't changed anything about this situation! They leave exactly those regions in the pit, which you indicate on Sunday at the main table or somewhere else to secure. – So this is a real pattern for demagogy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a fundamental problem that we have had in Austria since the 1990s: We believe that we have to go astray in every way that we are made international. Although we have already seen internationally again that everything is going to be rolled back, we are making the mistakes, or we want to make the mistakes that have already been recognized in other countries. Do we really want to leave the sufferers of this situation – the customers, the workers who will find their way out with so-called McJobs with 900 €? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The people don't want this, ladies and gentlemen. The 140,000 signatures have shown this quite clearly, although the popular desire has been deliberately launched in the summertime so that as few people as possible can sign it. The population will defend itself, just as the students are already doing in the field of education; on Saturday another great demonstration will take place here in Vienna, kindergartens and teachers will demonstrate. You will catch up with the harvest you deserve, namely the protest of the population against the measures you are continuously deciding on here. We will show that we are on the side of those who are against this mistake, that we are not willing to subordinate everything to profit! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10971	Mr Stauber. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European I'll set the clock up to 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10992	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Fathers. The matter of the postal market law is for all of us a very important but especially for rural areas. A mayor, himself affected by the locking up of two post offices in recent years, can very well report about this situation. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Mr Königshofer, I am of course still in the committee today on my statements. – Mr Rädler, it is simply a narrowing of rural areas, a weakening of rural areas when we lock up additional post offices! [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] That's what I'm saying. [[Abg. Grosz: That's it!]] Mrs Fuhrmann, I think you have no idea of the rural conditions. Because if you say that if there is no existing infrastructure, if there are no jobs on site, the youth will still stay in these rooms, then you are wrong! [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] These are the reasons why young people have to move away, why young people have to go to the agglomerations, that there are no more corresponding infrastructures. This must be prevented, ladies and gentlemen, from doing so. [[More recent detonatative appeal to BZÖ.]] Nevertheless, I would like to thank our Lady Minister for this law very much, because under the circumstances it was still the best result she could achieve that there is at least a minimum degree of security for rural areas. Thank you very much, and we continue to fight for the improvement of rural areas!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11048	Mr Hell has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11069	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! After this very controversial discussion of the last two and a half hours, I ask myself the question: What do people in Austria expect from providing postal services? – People want a comprehensive supply, reliability in quality delivery and affordable prices. I believe that the postal market law, which is in place today for decision-making, meets these expectations. The key elements of this law have already been addressed by my previous speakers: guaranteed minimum number of post office posts, no locks without replacement, strict closing mechanism involving the municipalities and under the supervision of the regulatory authority. A particularly important requirement for legislation is contained in this law in § 27. This is about concessions, and it states that employees in these companies must be employed in accordance with the applicable labour law provisions. The aim is to prevent social discrimination and a wage below the usual level of new postal service providers. Since the accusation here today that the wages are very low after these collective agreements, I would ask all the ladies and gentlemen who are responsible here to negotiate agreements with the trade unions with higher wages. I believe that the employees paid under these collective agreements would be pleased with their support. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a very fast time. People's communication behaviour is constantly changing, and I think that the postal market law can't shut down further changes either. However, I still believe that an important step is being taken today, that the company will be strengthened Post and that, in particular, the population can continue to be provided with appropriate postal services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11111	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 458 of the additions to popular requests for "Stop the post-trafficking". I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We also come to the vote on the draft federal law, which lays down a postal market law and amends the KommAustria Act, including the title and entry into 319 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. [[Abg. Grusz: Dust, what is it? Club force? No hero either! Heroes look different, and winners look different!]] I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, fellow Members, on the establishment of a sufficient time for the opening of postal offices. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues and colleagues on the implementation of the postal programme. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall also vote on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 460 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. That's why it's accepted. We are now voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 461 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority. That's why it's accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Transport Committee to take note of its report 462 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – That too is the majority. That's why it's accepted. Finally, we are voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 463 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. [[13:07:15]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on the Government Template (393, p._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Patent Law 1970, the Patent Contract Introduction Act, the Use Model Act, the Trademark Protection Act 1970, the Patent Law and the Patent Office Fees Act (421 d. B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11200	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. If you wish, speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11227	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Let me once examine the patent law from the point of view of companies, namely those who make innovations that operate R & D. There is something positive to be noted at first, namely the simplification of the opposition procedure in the area of trademark protection. This still distinguishes us and will also distinguish us from the USA in the future, where nothing happens first when logging in, but very probably in the end, when the processes are already running and produced, oppositions can come out and only expensive procedures can come out. That's the positive; then it's getting a little more critical. Positive would be the London agreement, according to which one deliberately renounces the translation of patents and applications. Those who deal with innovations know very well how they come to this know-how from foreign patent documents. But obviously the ladies and gentlemen have now been scared by the government fractions of their own courage, and so last night we had a motion for amendment in the house. Next would be the fee structure. The point would be that small and medium-sized enterprises, which have so far been a little disadvantaged in the field of patents, are also more concerned with innovation and patenting. Therefore, young patents should not charge fees in the first five years. But – and now the big but – the patents are not expensive in the first five years, but they are expensive at the beginning, when logging in, and there are no restrictions on the patent lawyers. There are no rules on the Board of Patent Lawyers either. That's what we'd have expected. Especially where patents are really expensive – that is, if they last longer – there is no restriction on fees again. But if I'm talking about fees, we're right in the area of monarchy: There are the writing fees for arches and the like. We would have expected that access to matter would have been a little more modern. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, the “Krone” in this legislation is that during the plenary sessions there should be applications for amendments in the evening so that one does not insist that, for example, we should have received bio-patent monitoring, with which we would finally have increased reporting of 1 percent to almost all the patents that this area should receive. This will again be reduced to the original level of 1 percent of patents from Austria, and the whole with the clear reasoning that the EU Commission is already “monitoring”. This is the same EU Commission, which leaves the GMOs through and does nothing in this direction. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: This is not the case, Mr. Colleague.]] Our appeal is: Let us end the middle-class fee, end undemocratic states, and end a non-information from Parliament! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11270	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11291	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, it is also important to add something about the innovative power of Austria. I would like to point out that Austria is also sixth in Europe as an “innovation follower” due to a relatively good patent balance. We also know from WIFO studies that two thirds of the economic growth potential comes from technological progress. Patents play a major role here, of course, patents from Austrians, but also from foreigners who apply for patents in Austria – in very high numbers, which also speaks of Austria's economic location as an important and interesting market for many. The Patengesetz is a normative framework for this. There is, of course, a need for permanent reform, and I believe that we are making some very essential adaptations with this innovation. Mr Deimek has already said that a patent application is feeable. The patent fees, which most patent realizations fail, because at the beginning of the first years it is not foreseeable whether it will be an economic success or not, are now lasting for five years. That is, I think, a great advantage. The patent holder can really decide after five years: Does it count, is it reasonable to insist on this patent, yes or no? – This is also possible in case of utility protection or brand protection stories, for which three years are free. There are a number of other points – such as research into TRF stories or the Biopatent Monitoring Committee – that are intended to create a legal basis, which is a good thing. I would like to conclude by tabling the following motion for a resolution on the London Convention: [[Quoted print version removed]] There are more specific points to be taken into account in this study. The motion for a resolution, I believe, has all been accepted. I'm looking for your support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11343	The motion for a resolution which has just been submitted is sufficiently supported, has been explained in its broad outlines and in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure have already been distributed to Members and are therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11444	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. If you wish, speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11465	Mr President. Minister! High house! The procedure for the revision of the Patent Act is once again an example of how the coalition parties deal with partially justified objections and proposals of the opposition parties. We have also agreed to this law in committee, bearing in mind the urgent need for adaptation and change. This is done by lapidar, and then five minutes before twelve, before the laws here also have to pass the House, those arguments which have come from the opposition parties are put in place as separate amendments and enlargement applications. As far as the law itself is concerned, today genetic technology is over 20 years old and an essential part of biological and medical research. Some products of their application are already on the market, and the further increase is foreseeable. Through possible applications such as genetic engineering changes in food, each of us is directly affected. The fierce controversy about this, however, rarely leads to further markings than positions. New forms of social discourse on application and evaluation, but above all the impact of the admission of these new and young technologies are necessary and desirable from my point of view. For technology development in general and for genetic engineering in particular, it is important not only to review the technical-inherent risks, but above all to review the objectives of applications. For this reason, it is also to be considered positive that the Biopatent Monitoring Committee, with this law, finds its legal basis and basis. What is important, however, is that individual members of this committee have the opportunity to appoint experts with the review or to draw up and order opinions in order to assess the technical impact assessment as well. We believe that at least two members of the Commission should have this opportunity, and we have also tabled this as an amendment to the Committee. Unfortunately, these objections have not been addressed. In general, it is a law that is positive. However, the additional proposals of the opposition have not been put into effect. That is why we will not agree either.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11508	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. Preferred speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11529	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! I believe, Mr Deimek, that we have made very good progress in the Patent Law Novelle. On the one hand, the Biopatent Monitoring Committee now has a legal basis for the first time. The amendment only calls for the Committee's capacity to be exceeded if it is now necessary to review all 40 000 biopatents issued since 2000 at European level. I believe that this cannot be dealt with in the appropriate quality as we imagine it, and also with the necessary care, as is to be done in Austria. For this reason, the Biopatent Monitoring Committee should only be responsible for the nationally granted patents. At European level, a similar monitoring is already in place, thus ensuring complete monitoring. Secondly, our amendment is very short and easy to understand and, I believe, it would have been very good for you. I shall bring this amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. Gartlehner and Mag. Hakl, who will be present to you all – “to the government template 393 d.b. in the version of the Committee's report 421, e.g. concerning a federal law that amends the Patent Law 1970, the Patent Contract Introduction Act, the Model of Use Act, the Trademark Protection Act 1970, the Patent Law and the Patent Office Fees Act” – and may further explain this amendment. On the one hand, in future patent law, the Patent Office will also be allowed to act in the field of partial rights. The aim is not to create new public competition for private companies and entrepreneurs, but there are just things that the Patent Office can do well and better than others. The purpose of the amendment is to keep the powers closely in place so that it is clear that no patent evaluations and opinions on patent evaluations as a whole are to be made available by the Patent Office in the partial capacity, but that, in fact, automated procedures available on the part of the Patent Office can be made available to the users of the patent system against remuneration. In the case of you, as well as described as pleasing, possible opposition procedures are now further facilitated for the users of the patent system by simplifying in the present amendment request of the instance movement, namely to the Supreme Patent and Trademark Court and to the OGH, so that a third Supreme Court may not make contradictoryly competitive decisions. The administrative court as the third final instance is probably more accidentally slipped in here, especially since it is already overburdened and has only had to build up appropriate competence. These are all the amendments made with this amendment. I therefore believe that you too could carry this amendment and I would be pleased about it. It is important that, in sum, we have achieved a milestone in this important and innovative area of law through the facilitation of fees, a reasonable legal basis and the basis that the Biopatent Monitoring Committee can also work qualityably. I hope, Mr Deimek, that you too will support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11569	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and has been explained in its key points. In view of the extent of the application, we will apply in accordance with § 53 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The application is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11711	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11732	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Hakl, you have referred to the Biopatent Monitoring Committee, which is a great success that is now institutionalized. – So really: The success story of the genetic engineering people's desire was the basis for the establishment of this Commission on the basis of green pressure. An essential part of this committee, which is mainly composed of representatives of the Ministries – one has to say clearly, these are representatives of the individual departments – were scientists, free scientists from the Austrian genetic engineering people’s desire. 1.2 million Austrians signed and signed this at the time and have just spoken out for non-genotechnic food and against the right to live patents. That was the theme! Patents on life did not want the population and does not want it, and exactly this part, ladies and gentlemen, you have now stepped with the change with feet. They do not want the Committee to comment critically on development, because no patents have been filed in Austria in this field, in the genetic engineering sector. They are notified in the European field, in other Member States. This committee cannot now critically light up that area, which the people want to have critically illuminated and which the representatives of popular desire wanted to reflect accordingly. We therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this wording of the amendment appears to be somewhat technical, but what is it about: That exactly those representatives of civil society, who are to participate in it from our point of view, are not currently receiving a cent fee for this critical expert activity. They want studies to be carried out from outside, from external experts, but those critical representatives inside the Commission who must be in monitoring do not get a cent. All the others are representatives of the Ministries, i.e. officials who are paid, and can spend the time there in the Commission without them going somewhere else. On the one hand. It is completely incomprehensible how to exclude civil society from monitoring critical products, how it is no longer possible for developments in genetic engineering, agro-gen technology to be seen critically. The report is worth nothing more in the future! I'll tell you. And one more thing about patent law: Mr Gartlehner rightly referred to some improvements, but I say to you, and that is also the reason why we cannot agree: If you yourself realize that you want to join the London Convention and, at the same time, bring in a resolution that the Ministry should examine the impact that this has on the economy, it is completely absurd, ladies and gentlemen. If you construct a law so unsolide that you don't know what impact it has on the economy and want to examine it afterwards, that's nonsense par excellence. We shall nevertheless give our support to this resolution. Yes, of course, one must examine this, but before the law is passed, and not only after that. That is why we will vote in favour of the resolution, but we will not vote in favour of the law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11812	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11873	Mrs Bures spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11894	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The OECD reports show us that there are two key factors for a country to secure employment, to generate growth and thus to secure prosperity in a country. This, of course, is of particular importance in economically difficult times. The two factors are investment in a modern ecological infrastructure – we are working on high pressure – and measures for an innovation boost, namely investment in research, development and technology. What we are deciding here today may only be a small mosaic, because there has been a great deal of effort in the field of investment in research and technology especially in my home because of the economic situation in recent months. I would just like to give you one example: I presented a new initiative in Alpbach to support small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they do not get out of small research projects, but stay inside. With this "Quick Start" model, we do not only support a quarter of R & D investment in the past, but almost half, up to 45 percent. We promote the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises in research and development. This also shows effect. With today's decision-making, we want to continue this path and strengthen it once again. That shows effect! When we look at which countries have many innovations, of course, this also means how many applications are filed with the Patent Office, i.e. how much intellectual property is protected so to speak. In Austria, contrary to the international trend – patent applications are falling between 5 and 15 percent internationally, in Germany minus 7 percent – it has succeeded in achieving an increase of plus 1 percent. This shows that this support for the economy really takes place in difficult times. They need to save, but should not do this in the wrong place in research and development. That is why I am glad that we want to create and implement a financial facilitation with this innovation today. We want to relieve companies investing in innovation. We allow for a fee exemption for patents for the first five years, for utility models within the first three years. That's something very special. You know, we have to discuss every time we talk about how we can at least secure the charges against inflation, because the public budgets are of course also affected by the economic situation. In this case, we will have a full exemption for intellectual property protection, because we are convinced that we do not want to afford an innovation stop in Austria either. The second point I would like to make briefly concerns the Biopatent Monitoring Committee. We're expanding that. – To present it as if it were a deterioration in the two reports that we have discussed in the National Council, is not true. The result of these reports was that we have expanded the possibilities of the Commission, namely that the area of activity will also be extended to all patents and utility models granted with protection for Austria. One can say, of course, that one would like to extend the scope, but to present it as if it were a deterioration, does not correspond to the facts. The field of activity for the Biopatent Monitoring Committee will be extended. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not true!]] I would like to make one point, because that was also a wish of the economy. They said that they actually needed a more flexible and tailored research programme. They have also asked the experts in the Patent Office more and more. The partial right that we are making possible today is also intended to enable these tailor-made research to be carried out. It is clear to us that this must, of course, be transparent, that there must be shared performance calculations, that we also need to define a service catalogue clearly in order to ensure these demarcations in the area of partial justice. We will be able to respond quickly and flexibly to the wishes of customers and thus the economy. We are working together to strengthen Austria's innovation and research location. A little mosaic stone is this novel, and I'll ask you for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11933	The next speaker was Mrs Silhavy. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11954	Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We're discussing a whole package of laws today. It includes the Patent Law, the Patent Contract Introduction Act, the Model Law, the Trademark Protection Act, the Patent Law and the Patent Office Fees Act. Mr Pirklhuber, the essential thing is to create legal certainty for the Monitoring Committee. I hope that we two will agree. The second point that seems important to me is: I believe that it is very critical to have different members of the committee, namely the one who acts on a voluntary basis, and the other who are paid. That is a question that you cannot solve as easily as you have now presented it with your amendment, because it is a very sensitive matter. I am already of your opinion that you have to look at yourself very well, as can those people in the committee who make this really free of charge because they do not get money from a service for this time. The solution you propose, however, is not really a useful model, especially as regards the evaluation of the activity. I'd like to warn you about that. Mrs Bures has already mentioned many facts: A very important point, and this is at all the positive thing about this novel, is the enthusiasm for innovation in the rules of fees, namely the exemption for the first five years in the field of patent application and the trademarks for the first three years. Especially in connection with the “Quick Start” model, there is a real opportunity to make real progress through innovation, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. At the end of the day, jobs and value added can also be created for Austria. This is not only for the individual companies, but also for the benefit of all of us and thus strengthens our common good. That is why this is a very important point. I also hope that the fears raised in the Committee's discussion as regards partial rights could be removed from the world through this amendment and the provisions which are now very limited and close to this area. What seems to me to be important are four priorities which the motion for a resolution addresses, namely this study on the London Convention and what accession means. The question of the advantages and disadvantages of Austrian companies from Austria's accession to the London Convention is an essential question that must ultimately be of interest to all of us. The question of whether there are indicators that prove that access to the patent system has been facilitated and improved in those countries where the Convention has already entered into force, especially SMEs, is also an important point. The same is true of the question of the development of fees, which also has to do with this. The last point I would like to address is the question of the changes in the registrations of native, European and non-European applicants. This too has to do with how competitive our small and medium-sized enterprises are, in particular, how competitive we are overall in competition. Therefore, the study is necessary. All in all, I can say for my group: We are happy to agree to this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12013	Mr Dr Karlsböck spoke as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12034	Mr President. Minister! Originally, we wanted to discuss the upgrading of the Patent Office, the modernisation of the Patent Office on this legal matter. We wanted to talk about the legal foundations of the Biopatent Monitoring Committee that are legal certainty. We supported the original request before the last committee meeting. In the meantime, however, several applications have been made, so that we do not see ourselves able to handle them properly in a careful way. We have received the first change before the last Technology Committee. We received the second change yesterday, and we received the third change during the current plenary session today. This is a constant round of events in which our proposals are not put into effect in any way. Although there are some really good things in here, we cannot accept this proposal and this legislative novel, as has already been mentioned. I would have rather discussed the discussion about the intention of the Biopatent Monitoring Committee, a content of its action, namely the assessment of certain patent effects in a different light, in the context of a debate on a scientific parliamentary service. The developed parliaments in the Western world all provide a scientific service. They are, in German, doing something like an institution of technology impact assessment. - We don't do that in Austria. We are shifting this important activity, which basically means nothing else than the preparation of knowledge, that there are also opportunities of legislative proposals or templates to be found, recommendations for decision-makers, which are then discussed in the relevant committees, to the outside. Germany, for example, has such a technology assessment office since 1990 and also in England – we have had to let ourselves be told in the committee – for some time now. Instead of talking about such basic, forward-looking issues, we have to deal with the complication of well-being and simplified structures, which, unfortunately, only serve to strengthen party-political interests. For this reason and because our proposals have not been tabled, we cannot, unfortunately, accept this amendment from the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12080	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12104	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For our group, Karin Hakl has already explained in detail what is positive about this Patent Law Novelle and the other laws, and I would like to stress this very much. However, I would like to address one aspect which, from my point of view, will result in an appeal to Mrs Minister. A subject in the field of patents in Europe is the languages and the related additional effort. This brings us an additional burden of at least a doubling compared to the US, if not a multiply of costs. Costs for extending patents are relevant, especially for innovative companies. The very best of all would undoubtedly be to get out of the European Patent Convention sometime towards Community patent. Unfortunately, however, we are still a piece away from God. This has been discussed for more than ten years, and a success is ultimately not in sight due to the language dispute; sometimes it is the Spanish, sometimes it is the Germans. The second best solution is to continue with the European Patent Convention. That is what we want to do, and there is a step forward in this London agreement. However, if we make the legal preparations for accession and a subsequent ratification, we will pick up the horse a little bit from the back. Usually one joins, then one ratifys and at the same time or later one makes the accompanying laws. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it may already be that in the Federal Chancellor's Office, one thing we have to consider with the language, with German and constitutional questions, it may already be that others point to the SME structure of Austria and that whether one should not necessarily stick to the German translation, also from English patents, but I add, there will already have a reason why half of the EPC signatory states have already ratified, there will already be a reason why the Germans signed and ratified. That's where the whole thing is. They are at least as German as we are, and they are at least as medium-sized as we are. A country that is always particularly sensitive to me in terms of languages, ladies and gentlemen, is France, because there is nothing about the Lingua franca at all. But even the French now agree that an English or German-written patent in France is automatically applicable – without French translation. That is why I appeal to you, Mrs Federal Minister: Austria should join the London Convention as soon as possible, then also ratify it. Interestingly, we create the legal conditions with this vote today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12153	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. Also 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12174	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Perhaps one of the most important tasks of active economic policy is to provide the best conditions for future-proof jobs, thus creating the basis for broad prosperity in our country. This claim complies with the new patent law. It will also meet the objective of continuing the recovery process of the Austrian economy. Austria – which has already been mentioned today – is sixth in the most innovative European economies. This pick-up process should be further strengthened towards an absolute European top-level. In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs, the new regulation of patent law brings decisive benefits by exempting from annual fees in the first five years of patents and for the first three years in the utility models. This relieves financial burden, gives additional impulses and is an incentive for new innovations. As with the early tax reform this year with the Innovation Check for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises up to €5,000, this Federal Government again proves its commitment to small and medium-sized enterprises. In contrast to others, the SPÖ, the SPÖ implements, effectively strengthens the medium-sized, small and medium-sized enterprises. I can mention something that took place the last weekend “long night of research”. This took place in many cities of our Republic at 99 locations, 570 projects were presented. I was able to imagine in Linz how many young people were very interested, and I was particularly impressed by the great enthusiasm of those involved in these projects. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Research and development must serve people. I am very glad that the Institute of Learning and Commemoration Hartheim also raises these questions, currently at the Second International Hartheim Conference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12217	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12238	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! This proposal for a law contains important changes in the interests of legal certainty. Especially for the Biopatent Monitoring Committee, as we have already heard, a legal basis should be created, but the possibilities should also be extended. If Austria joins the London Convention – and this is what it intends – it will take the legal precautions, which will also enter into force with the entry into force of this accession. I am convinced that it is important to join this agreement, as Mr Bartenstein has already mentioned. The structure of fees is to be adapted to the needs of the economy, but at the same time it also has cost-saving and innovation-enhancing effects. This is due to the fact that at the beginning a longer fee exemption is granted for patents and utility models, five years for patents, the first three years for utility models. In the future, research and advice can be offered on the full extent of partial justice. This is an important contribution in order to be able to respond even more flexiblely to the wishes of the innovative economy. This draft law has a positive impact on our labour market and employment, and it contributes significantly to strengthening Austria's economic location. That is why it is recommended to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12268	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12292	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! The improvements or changes are in addition to the creation of the legal basis for the Biopatent Monitoring Committee, including the cost-effective and rapid enforcement option in the brand procedure. The fee structure will also be changed. Patents are subject to fees in the first five years, for trademarks in the first three years. This is still considered to be an innovation-promoting measure. Promoting innovation brings me to another topic, namely the COMET programme. I am particularly pleased to see a K2 centre, the ACIB in Graz, and the PCCL in Leoben, among other things. Especially for Leoben, this is also a location guarantee. Thus, in Styria we have three of the five Austrian K2 centres. With this programme, Styria and Austria demonstrate, among other things, how research and development are promoted and how important research and technology are to us. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in times of crisis, it is important not to cut research expenditure, especially as Federal Minister Bures clearly proves to be strengthening research and technology, to secure and expand jobs for people in our country, and to establish us as a top country of research. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Yes, that would be important!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12335	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12357	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A granted patent grants the holder a variety of legal possibilities to protect his invention. This includes both the possibility to move authorities to step in and enforce their claims by civil law. I therefore expressly welcome today's motion for a resolution on a study on the advantages and disadvantages for Austria and the users of the patent system through the accession to the London Convention. It is indeed, as Mrs Bures has already pointed out, that research, development and investment go hand in hand with each other as hardly any other area in the economy. I would therefore also like to use this opportunity to point out a problem that goes something beyond the European area, which is quite well regulated, namely the misuse of patent rights by so-called patent racketers on the Russian market, a growth market without question, especially with regard to the construction sector. Here there are companies that have approached us, who see quite good investment opportunities there, but precisely because they have appeared on the market with inventions there, there are large investment barriers, namely in the form that their inventions are copied and then presented as their own patents almost as conditions to the companies. That is, they have great problems selling their own products there. There are no legal requirements here. I mean, it's important that we create opportunities here. Investors are told there that they are disbursing themselves from civil rights claims for damages. They are also told that if they do not do so, they will be subject to criminal sanctions. continue to pay the corresponding amounts, and they have to expect the intervention of the militia and the prosecutor's office. In order to explain the difficulties that a patent cancellation procedure entails, I am sorry to miss out on time, but I think it is important that the policy of this problem should also be adopted and supported by the companies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12402	The last speaker to speak was Mr Magistrate. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12423	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! As the last speaker on this conglomerate of laws – my colleague has already pointed out that there are actually six legislative instruments that we have to adopt and also want – I may perhaps give a small overview of why we are in total for that, and why, of course, we also call on the opposition parties to join and perhaps agree. If I have listened to Dr. Karlsböck, he has said more or less literally: Although good things are inside, we cannot agree. – So this is not quite understandable for my normal Tyrolean home mind. A few points: Patent law – we have heard that – is very important for the innovations in Austria. Innovations create work, and we're on the right track. The Minister has already told us. It is not the case with us that we have a breach of patent applications, but we have even had a slight increase. On the other hand, others have experienced a break in economic and technological developments in themselves, and that, I believe, already shows how strong we are on the road under our leadership. To the Biopatent Monitoring Committee, I would like to say that it monitors and evaluates the effects of the Directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions. A corresponding legal basis is being created today. And why am I glad? . Because this committee is going back to a resolution of the National Council, and that is why we can really say with fug and right that that is important what is being decided today. I also do not want to vote in the choir of those who say that the reduction in fees is far too low. I looked at that. 370 € for the patents, 160 € for the utility models are not negligible. All in all, again my appeal: Please agree! Jump You're over your different colored shadows! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12467	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 421 of the Supplements. Mr Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment here. In addition, the Members of Parliament have spoken in favour of this report. Gartlehner, Mag. Mr Hakl submitted an additional or amendment request. First of all, I shall have to vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals referred to above, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Ing. Gartlehner, Mag. Hakl, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment which refers to Articles I Z 2 and Z 8 § 166. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Pirklhuber, colleagues, who are referring to Rule I.Z. 8 § 167. If you want to join this amendment, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule I Z 8 § 167 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent to these provisions, I ask for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Ing. Gartlehner, Mag. Hakl concerning the introduction of new points 1a and 3a in Article IV. Whoever is for this supplementary request, I am looking for a sign of confirmation. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Ing. Gartlehner, Mag. Hakl concerning Articles IV Z 6 and 7. Whoever joins these amendments, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is also accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Gartlehner, Mag. Hakl, colleagues on the examination of the advantages and disadvantages of Austria’s possible accession to the ‘London Convention’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 55.) [[13:57:28]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 837/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, Petra Bayr, Ing. Hermann Schultes, Carmen Gartelgru- ber, Ing. Robert Lugar, colleagues on: Nuclear energy must not be a climate protection measure (425, e.g.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 817/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues in the Federal Government's negotiating position at the Copenhagen Climate Change Conference (426 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 765/A(E) by Mr Mag. Rainer Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the cost of disaster prevention exercises for nuclear operators (427 d.e.c.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12626	We shall now proceed to points 9 to 11 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Tadler has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12653	Mr President. High house! Austria is atomic-free and also admits to this, even if according to the E-Control report, a composite subsidiary sells a low-cost current with a non-insignificant nuclear current. The Minister of Economic Affairs – he's not here; he's not here! – sometime. [[Call:There he stands]] Atomstrom does not have a mesh, nor does an atomic cloud stop in front of the state borders, which also brings me to our request, which we – MEPs Widmann, Tadler, colleagues – have brought in. In accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle, we want to take responsibility from nuclear power plants. For us, it is incomprehensible that the safety and health of Austrians who speak against nuclear power – yes, against nuclear power – are threatened by scrap reactors and a money-loving nuclear lobby. The cost of arming for the serious situation and for disaster prevention exercises should, of course, be borne by the causer, because we do not want to leave the population alone with this potential threat, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Unfortunately, almost no support comes from the Federal Government in this regard. Especially when you look at Temelín, it is clear that the Federal Government cannot be enforced against the atomic lobby and can be carried around at the nose – in the truest sense of the word. The history of the Milk Protocol should now be known to everyone. I wonder when, Mr. Federal Minister – where is he? –, finally become active! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12694	Federal Minister Berlakovich now stands in the Members' ranks. The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Schools. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12720	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Minister of State! Appreciate High House! We have a request that we acknowledge that we do not want to see nuclear power as a solution to the issue of climate change and that we want to anchor it in Copenhagen or in the international agreements. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Brunner.]] This is an important thing for us. It shows that there is still a fundamental consensus in this House on important issues. The initiative on this request came from Mrs Brunner. For me, it was a matter of course that it was. We are very happy to join this proposal, but we have discussed this question very quickly, as I mean. However, the exciting question will be: How can we really achieve climate change objectives? How can you actually achieve these goals in Austria, in the surrounding countries and worldwide? The task ahead of us is not a small one. If the United States emits 22 tons, 23 tons of CO2 per citizen and this is needed to create their prosperity, we may need 11 tons or 12 tons of CO2 in Austria to create our prosperity, and countries like China still have 3 tons or 4 tons of CO2 to create their prosperity, we can assume that it must be the goal to enable prosperity around the world. At the same time, however, we know that more than 4 tons or 5 tons of CO2 emissions per capita represent a disaster for the whole world. This means that we know that the path to a reasonable low-carbon economy must be a reasonable energy future, which in fact means a massive reduction in all countries. The discussion of how this reduction can be achieved is a question of efficiency, is a question of new technologies and is also a question of transfer of knowledge. We will therefore have to talk in Copenhagen not only about how we do it ourselves, but also about how we are dealing with each other in the world on these issues. It will later be necessary that the idea of mutual assistance should not be seen as such as development aid. Then: Will the United States accept development aid from us? - I don't think so. However, they will have to be very much helped to get to where we still have to go in the efficiency of energy use. Our Ross is a little less high than that of the Americans, but we too will have to go down. Therefore, such a basic decision to refrain from nuclear power is a decision which is another decision: How do we continue the way? In this respect, we will still have a lot to discuss in this House, but I am also very pleased to have this discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12773	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12794	Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! We have already discussed this morning the dramatic situation in the Austrian climate balance. Finally, we are in the European Union and we are missing our goals in the field. Unfortunately, the Federal Government and the Minister for Agriculture have not yet recognized this, but very well recognized this very many pupils and young people who were here recently and who were very committed to their demands and concerns – I would like to say they were very informed – have outlined them. I would like to thank all the students and even all the schools that participated in this campaign and also to make an appeal to everyone to continue and to continue fighting for climate protection. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, the request we have made on behalf of the students will unfortunately be rejected today. What did these so unrealistic demands? – They demanded that we reduce our CO2 emissions by 40 percent by 2020, they called for the protection of the rainforest, they demanded that Austria pay a fair contribution to climate action in developing countries – in addition to existing commitments – and that nuclear power should not play a role in climate protection. All these are measures that are not utopian, all these are measures that are realistic and necessary – that is confirmed by all climate experts – if we want to get under control of climate change. By your rejection today – I must say that! – regrettably, your responsibility for the fact that this generation too can live in a climate that is compatible with people. However, one point from this request – as I would like to join my previous speaker – is being implemented today, at least in a first approach. There has been an agreement between all five parties that nuclear power cannot be a climate protection measure. I would like to thank all the environmental spokespersons of the other parties here for having made a joint request and for having decided on it today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For you, Minister of Agriculture, this is also a clear mission for Copenhagen to demand exactly that nuclear power should not play a role in JI/CDM projects, in the purchase of certificates or in other climate protection mechanisms. It is seen here in the House as a matter of course, but I think it should be a matter of course for us, for Austria too, that we also stick to it regardless of the negotiations in Copenhagen. It's not like that right now. We have heard that we do not achieve our Kyoto targets, so we must buy emission certificates. Austria also buys emission certificates from countries where nuclear power is going and going. You, Mr Agriculture Minister, just recently made a deal with the Czech Republic. For example, the EIA report of the Temelín nuclear power plant also says that the operators are very likely to get money from the CO2-certificate trade. If Austria buys certificates from such countries, this is unfortunately nothing but an indirect promotion of nuclear power. There is supposed to be the Austrian anti-atom consensus, in the population there is definitely it. I am pleased that we decide today, but I also expect Austria and the Austrian Federal Government and you, Minister of Agriculture, to act accordingly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the matter of nuclear power, we are nevertheless a little shambles, because the poor promotion of renewable energies also increases the import of nuclear power to Austria. The question was asked before: How can we protect the climate? Achieve goals? – If we want to achieve it without relying on nuclear power, it is quite clear: We have to rely on renewable energies. We Greens have very concrete proposals as to how we get out of this climate crisis. We are happy to provide you with these. We need a more ecological tax model, at last we need an eco electricity promotion law that deserves its name, and we need a climate protection law, but not only as a keyword, but also one with completely binding objectives and concrete measures, which can also be sanctioned if we fail. Again: In order to achieve this in Austria, Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12878	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12900	Mr President. I also think it is very important that we can decide today on this five-party proposal, which makes it clear that nuclear energy cannot be a climate protection measure for us. We all know about the problem of end-to-end storage, the problem of the uncertainty of technology. I would also like to say that it is important for me not only that we agree to decide on this request, which states that Austria does not agree in the forthcoming negotiations in Copenhagen that nuclear power can play a role in the flexible mechanisms such as JI/CDM or in emissions trading, but we have also said: This is an important part of Austria's consistent further anti-atomic policy, both at European and international level, knowing that we are taking a minority position especially in the developed countries. However, it is worth fighting for it, not a question at all! We have also agreed – even if this is not the subject of the request now, but I think it is an important political package – that, after the Copenhagen Summit, if there will be a legally binding agreement, or if there is no such agreement, then it is likely that, after this legally binding agreement, at a time when it will be clear which mechanisms a post-Kyoto regime will provide, if it is nevertheless necessary for Austria's nuclear power to play any role, to bring in a second five-party request, where we will also “connect” that such certificates will at least not buy Austria, will not be used by these projects and will remain so consistently against supporting nuclear power abroad through projects. I would also like to justify our rejection of Mrs Brunner's request concerning the positioning of the Federal Government at the Copenhagen Climate Change Conference. I can live very well with points 2, 3 and 4, these are not at all the problem, which I have a problem with, however, is the point 1, where a little bit is being done, as if it were only realistically realistic that we are going here two weeks before the Copenhagen conference and – swupp! – change the EU's position and say: Okay, not 20 percent greenhouse gas reduction by 2020 or 30 percent, if still other important industrialized countries go along, but we're just making 40 percent of it now! We all know that this 20-20-20 rule has been negotiated over years and that the Burden Sharing has been hotly debated for years. I'm from a youth organization myself. It is very important to me to take young people seriously, but to teach young people: We do!, knowing that it is impossible, I do not think it is a way to take it seriously, but rather I think it is a provider. That is why this request will not exist with us as a SPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12939	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12960	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am also very pleased that we have been able to bring this joint motion for a resolution to the rails because that is a very clear sign. I would like to present a few figures on nuclear energy. Because of the increasing cost of renewable energy again and again, I will not only present to you the figures from the field of nuclear energy, but also those from the fossil energy sector, which is happening very quickly. There is a study on external costs of fossil and atomic energy. This study shows that in the field of gas external costs account for 4.9 cents per kilowatt hour, 13.7 cents in the range of lignite, 11.5 cents in stone and 180 cents per kilowatt hour in the core force. This means that nuclear power is in fact, when you see it in the big context, a very expensive form of energy generation. If we look at the figures from Germany, 20 billion € have been spent on the construction of research reactors, 2.5 billion € have been spent on the decommissioning and reconstruction of nuclear installations, 1.2 billion € for the operation and decommissioning of the Morsleben End Camp, 9 billion € in public financing for failed projects, 6.6 billion € for the Wismuth Rehabilitation, for demolition/End Camp Greifswald, 3.7 billion €. The loss of tax revenue due to non-taxable provisions was €20 billion. And the state liability is not even quantified, because, if there are really accidents, one would have to submit for the costs, because the nuclear power plants are not insured to the extent that we imagine it. The liability amount for nuclear power plants in Germany was only recently increased from € 15 million to € 700 million per nuclear power station. You have to imagine this: 15 million €, that's very, very little, actually nothing! In order to ensure that renewable energy sources are actually used more frequently and competitively, I suggest that we seek to amend the EU Value Added Tax Directive and also work towards it at European level so that renewable energy sources become cheaper for end-users. This would also benefit domestic companies because those companies operating in Austria produce mainly renewable energy. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This measure would be an advantage for the final consumer, especially for the domestic economy, and this would ultimately contribute to the introduction of less nuclear power, less nuclear power than before. You need to know: Today we import much more nuclear power than Zwentendorf had ever produced!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13018	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13085	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13106	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! In principle, I am pleased that it has succeeded in the form of a five-party antra- In this context, it is clear that nuclear energy is not an issue for Austria, and that we represent a clear common position in this context. Nuclear energy – as has already been said by my previous speakers – is a very dangerous technology in operation, the disposal of certain wastes has not been solved for centuries, very cost-intensive, and uranium is one of the scarcest raw materials and energy sources in the world. It is therefore important for us in Austria to have a clear common approach to the Copenhagen conference and to say: We have no interest at all in the fact that this technology is experiencing an upturn, a renaissance! We do not see a meaningful future for this technology area! But: It must be clear to us, of course, that if we reject one thing, alternatives are necessary. This requires a comprehensive and holistic discussion. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the morning, intensive discussions were held on the achievement of the Kyoto target. I can provide background information on this. The European Union has agreed on an average reduction of 8 per cent. It must be noted that there are countries like Portugal that will reach plus 27 percent, Greece plus 25 percent, Spain plus 15 percent, Ireland plus 13 percent, Sweden plus 4 percent, France a zero, Finland a zero – no reduction! – the Netherlands 6 percent, Italy minus 6.5 percent, Belgium minus 7.5 percent, United Kingdom minus 12.5 percent and Austria minus 13 percent! If you then remember who has already achieved its goals, then you have to say that these are primarily those countries in which, in the past, massive nuclear currents have already been applied, as is the case in France, and Sweden – and this is positive and pleasing – is massively dealing with hydropower. This is of course also instructive for us to ask: Where are our chances in Austria? That is to say, to focus attention clearly and clearly on those areas where, on the one hand, there are savings potentials, but on the other hand, there is also scope for expansion in the renewable sector, in the field of hydropower. Then you have to decide: Do I stand for hydropower and I honestly believe it with the objectives of renewable energy, or do I see it populist? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] If you, Mrs Brunner, are speaking, it is interesting that Mr Kogler is turning his back on me, because he has also turned his back on the hydropower. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In a project in the Styria, he expressed himself clearly and clearly against hydropower. He was asked by a magazine for a recall to hear from him an alternative to this procedure – unfortunately, he never came. [[Calls to the Greens.]] No answers, Mrs Brunner, that is too little! Here pragmatic answers are necessary. There are areas in which the objectives have been achieved in Austria. This is agriculture, which is the waste sector – a clear check below. We need to deal objectively with the issue of transport – a third is tank tourism. Answers have been asked. Next point: clear approaches in the field of space heat. My approach and my answer are clear: Electricity is not suitable for heating because technologically too high-quality, in reality far too expensive. But heating oil didn't lose anything in a kiln either.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13188	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13209	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make a few comments on the report by the European Commission on the Kyoto target, which is not very pleasing for Austria. We have not achieved our self-esteemed goals. In this context, I would like to highlight the climate report, which lists all the contaminants. A segment is the space heat; it is a total of 13 percent. We have seen a decline in 2007, and this is very encouraging. This is the only parameter that shows this decline. An important instrument for improving efficiency, highlighted in this report, in the housing and building system, is the promotion of housing, which makes it possible. In the area of space heating, there is still great potential for savings, and in the area of thermal renovation, additional resources will not be possible in the future. Finally, on the motion for a resolution: Of course, I also find it very gratifying that there is a five-party request here, where we have agreed on a clear anti-atomic consensus. I am convinced that, with our Environment Minister in Copenhagen, the delegation will be properly represented by this motion for a resolution and will work to ensure that nuclear energy is not provided as a strategy for greenhouse gas prevention in a Kyoto successor regime. It will not only be easy in the international context, but also within the EU we will have a lot to do for our anti-atomic policy, which is why this consensus is all the more important in Austria. In this sense, I wish you, Mr Minister, and the delegation a great deal of success in the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13249	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13271	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that nuclear energy is not a climate action no longer needs to be carried out further, it was also discussed in detail during the current hour in the morning. The efforts for climate protection are very ambitious in Austria, but not enough yet. Based on the publications of the European Environment Agency, there is still a need to catch up in Austria. That means everyone has to pull on one strand. This applies, on the one hand, to the Federal Government, to the countries, but also to areas such as transport and economy. An effective instrument for this is a clearly defined federal climate protection law. Climate action is a mix of energy efficiency on the one hand and renewable energy on the other. An important step has been taken in the area of energy efficiency with the help of thermal renovation for old buildings. This will continue to be the case in the future. But every one of us is also required to deal with energy carefully. Renewable energy is of enormous importance for achieving climate objectives. That's what many studies confirm. Whether it's green electricity, biomass, solar energy, wind power and so on, all this makes an important contribution. But also from strategi- It is a matter of great importance for renewable energy, but it will continue to provide value added and jobs in the country, rather than being exported for fossil energy. However, this area is very important for us also in terms of the sabering that Russia is in the direction of gas supply. The topic of energy, energy supply and energy strategy is competent in both Federal Ministers Berlakovich and Mitterlehner.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13313	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13363	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This five-party proposal is, I believe, not much to say, because a lot has already been said about it. All of us are very pleased, of course, and he also has his authority. Mrs Mag. Brunner: Mrs Mag. Brunner, it has already been given to you by my colleague, Petra Bayr, the reason why we unfortunately have to let him fall into the well. There's nothing we can do. It's all explained, and I think you've understood the argument when you show good will. I'm sorry. I have considered how many countries all over the world use nuclear energy for energy use. They are saying and writing 31 countries. That's a lot. 438 nuclear power plants are currently in operation. In December 2008, even more than 80 nuclear power plants were in concrete planning for the future. What makes me very concerned is the use in England. England continues to rely on its nuclear power, and this makes me very concerned, even if one knows – and I do not want to value it politically – that any civil nuclear programme of course also tends to hide a weapons programme behind it. That's not what I'm saying, but that's what a leading nuclear energy expert says. We all know about the problem in Iran, how difficult it is to negotiate internationally. The argument of the nuclear advocates is very clear. This is also the reason why we now demand that nuclear power plants be regarded as non-CO2-reducing. The nuclear energy proponents always say that nuclear power plants would be more or less CO2-neutral or would not have CO2 emissions. But that's not true, because there's a lot of CO2 to be spent on the construction and so on. All in all, then, we must say that this decision is certainly making sense for our country today. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13406	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13427	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! With this five-party proposal, we also express our concern about the use of nuclear energy in Europe. The leading nations, such as Germany or France, are slowing down the nuclear exodus Keep going. Italy intends to reactivate its decommissioned nuclear power plants, and Sweden, too, has been considering this February's re-entry into nuclear power. The share of nuclear power plants in electricity generation is 17 percent worldwide and 31 percent across Europe. In Europe, 13 new nuclear power plants are currently being built, and for three more, there are concrete plans. In the past, as with Russia's supply of gas by the Ukrainian pipelines, incidents have led, above all, Eastern and Middle Eastern European states to consider building new nuclear power plants. The fight against climate change is also giving new impetus to nuclear energy in Europe. At the spearhead of the advocates is France. Ladies and gentlemen, the price for this so-called climate-friendly energy generation is high. Already in the field of uranium production, highly hazardous radioactive substances are largely released. Smaller incidents, where radioactivity is partially released, are relatively common. The non-interruptible normal operation of nuclear power plants also has a negative impact on human health. Studies show significantly increased leukemia rates in children near nuclear power plants. In addition, the question of disposal of the highly radioactive fuel components arises, as they have very long half-lifes. Furthermore, most European nuclear power plants do not even have liability insurance for uncontrollable interference. The lack of such insurance and the non-respect of the follow-up costs are a reason for the favourable electricity prices. There must therefore finally be an energy policy turnaround. Electricity from renewable energy sources must finally become competitive, and it must be made clear to people that most low-cost nuclear power providers have a high share of nuclear power, as well as the 2009 electricity identification report of the independent E-Control authority. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no other way we could account for our children and children than that of an uncompromising no on nuclear energy. This No also includes the exit from the EURATOM Treaty. That is why I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13507	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13574	As the last speaker, Mr Schopf has spoken. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13595	Mr President. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make a few points, in particular, about the very important conference in Copenhagen. It has already been mentioned, and I would like to underline this because it is important to me: Climate policy must not, of course, be It is based on measures in which nuclear energy plays a role. Mr Minister, perhaps it is possible for you to meet with colleagues from other countries on this point and, if possible, to draw up a protocol on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that climate protection, that energy efficiency measures cost a lot of money. And I think it would be a consideration if we could get through at EU level to introduce its own tax, its own tax, a levy on those energies produced in nuclear power plants. The financial resources available to us then could be used for these things that I have mentioned. Anti-atomic policy and, above all, the fight against nuclear power plants are important to me, and I therefore ask you, Mr Minister, to hold talks with the representatives of the Czech Republic, particularly with regard to Temelín. We all know that we have regulated in the Milker Treaty that all security problems, security failures, which have not been identified by politics, but by experts, will be eliminated. If we look at the current situation of Temelín, we must unfortunately note that, for the first time, the shortcomings have not been eliminated and, on the second hand, they are constantly on the agenda in Temelín. Ladies and gentlemen! The people not only around Temelín, but also in our federal state Upper Austria, at the Bordering is massively uncertain due to these incidents. We know that the first block has just been switched off. We know there are problems with the oil pipelines. We know that there is still no timetable, when and how these oil pipelines are repaired. And we also know that with these turbines there seems to be no trouble-free permanent operation in Temelín. Mr Minister, it's a lot to do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13641	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 425 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 56.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Neubauer, colleagues and colleagues on Austria's exit from the EURATOM Treaty. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 426 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 427 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. [[14:36:12]] 12. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (395, B.C.E._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Law on the Environment Senate (USG-Novelle 2009) (423 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13735	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13762	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! We will not vote in favour of this bill, but we will not currently give our approval to general laws with a necessary majority of two-thirds. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The groups of the opposition parties are trying to load ministers in the investigation committee currently under way. The Austrian People's Party with the support of SPÖ – now I do not even go into a SPÖ's qualification in this context – believes that the opposition in its control activity can lead around the nose. There is a wild determination to vote under the table on the Committee of Inquiry by December at the latest. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: That was agreed with you!]] No, no, that wasn't agreed! It was agreed, Mr Bartenstein – it is good for you to put the word “agreeable” in the mouth – that after each chapter, when one is completed, the respective ministers will be invited into the committee. That was agreed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Amon: No, that was not agreed!]] And this agreement immediately broke the Austrian People's Party, on the first occasion! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It was agreed that former Minister Strasser would be invited to the committee. [[Abg. Amon: Perhaps among the opposition fractions! You broke up with the blues, not with us!]] At present, the Austrian People's Party fears nothing as much as the appearance of Mr Ernst Strasser in front of the committee of inquiry; I also tell you why. Ladies and gentlemen! Ernst Strasser is the inventor of the BIA, the Spittelinstitut Office for Internal Affairs, who has ordered investigations against misguided members of the opposition at the prosecutor's office. Straster is the one who, with unproven claims, initiated investigations against Mr Pilz about the prosecutor's office, without any evidence of evidence. The mere claim made by Mr Strasser is sufficient. [[Abg. Head: At least once in a while, say, “Environmental Senate! ” At least once!]] Straster is the one who is the party political...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13850	Mr Stadler, it is your right to give the reasons why you have laws which are a two-thirds majority. require that your consent be denied, but it should always be made a reference to the matter. I would ask you to pay attention to this. Please, keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13876	Mr President. The Connex to the Environmental Senate is quite simple: We request that this be referred back to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We see a close link between what is to be changed or extended here in constitutional terms, and what is currently being broken down by the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Of course, with your refusal to invite ministers to the committee, you have raised constitutional principles! And one of the essential constitutional principles is the principle of checks and balances, namely control and power of government. And with the support of the Socialist Group, which is embarrassing enough, you use your government's power to make the government the robbers to prevent Parliament's control. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the connex of the forthcoming constitutional matter. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We will not allow you to try, where it goes near the Austrian People's Party, to the responsibilities of ministers of the ÖVP, where things are to be clarified in the context and in the context of the Austrian People's Party, where there were also cabinet secretaries – Mr Kloibmüller, who was responsible for the entire post coloring, or the now head of Red Carpet, a highly interesting company in this context – to prevent the investigation. You don't want to explain all these things. They want to prevent awareness, on the other hand we want to force clarification in this House, ladies and gentlemen, and we will force them to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Stop!]] That is why we are not prepared to give our support to the coalition for a two-thirds matter. I hope that the whole opposition to this law today will be rejected. We understand that the Federal Minister is trying to extend the Environmental Senate as a vocational agency, but if you do not do so today, Minister Berlakovich, thank you at the Austrian People's Party that prevents control! It is your own party that prevents this. Their own party needs the opposition to use these means to preserve constitutional rights. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] – Please, Mr Federal Minister, have You're making a contribution? You need information not at my side and not at the opposition, but in your own ranks! Teach your own party that it cannot destroy this house! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let your party teach you that the responsibility of the department also means to speak and answer before a committee of inquiry! Let your own group know that ministers can't get away from the responsibility for the biggest party-political recoloration actions to be taken in the area of criminal law! You should teach all of this to your own group, ladies and gentlemen, and then you can talk to the opposition again about whether you can achieve a two-thirds majority with the support of the opposition. High house! I know that this is not a daily political situation, but the voters and the spectators in front of the television screens should know that it is only your party, Mr. Federal Minister – exclusively your party! – which prevents control in this House at the moment when one comes near a black minister or a black cabinet secretary. That's fact! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why, Mr Federal Minister, you do not need to knock at the opposition at the moment if you lead the House a matter that needs a two-thirds majority. By the way, the same applies to the ORF law – if you don't mind, we won't be willing to help the coalition out of the Bredouille either! – and also for any other two-thirds of matter. If you believe that you can lead the opposition to the nose ring through the house, you'll be fooled. You can only do this with the Social Democrats at the moment!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13972	The next item is the report by Mr Amon, which is an actual correction. I refer to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure and give it the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13996	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler claimed that it had been agreed that the competent members of the government should be loaded after each subject in the committee of inquiry. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] It is rather true that it has been agreed to carry out an assessment after each chapter of whether it is necessary to load the members of the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14057	Mr Amon, that was at the very border of a real correction, because there are conflicting views which have been dealt with very often in this House. [[Abg. Amon: Why?]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Amon:... Interpretation of the Rules of Procedure by you! That was completely correct!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: There is a Rules of Procedure!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Hörl. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14119	Mr. Federal Minister! High house! For the past 15 years, the Environmental Senate has decided with high acceptance and quality on the vocations of national governments' decisions on environmental impact assessments. Of the approximately 230 proceedings which have been dealt with since its existence, only in three cases was a correction by the Administrative Court. You said this in your press release on the occasion of the 15th anniversary of the Environment Senate. I fully agree with you on this point. Dr. Baumgartner as Managing Director and also the Deputy Section Chef Dr. Petek do excellent and committed work with their employees. They also say that the high standard of environmental protection depends not only on the quality of the relevant laws, but also on those of implementation. You are, of course, right, Mr Federal Minister – even very special on this point! If, as decided in the Committee on the Environment, we now decide on the permanent extension of the Environment Senate, then I am sure many will be pleased. There are also Good reasons for this: Legal certainty, uniform case law in the second instance, high expertise of the experienced and repeatedly employed Senates. However, I am curious about how we can regulate this area of justice if the courts of my own country are to come. To transfer jurisdiction to countries, but to present the environment as too complex and too complicated for the national courts, corresponds to a certain arrogance of the capital Vienna. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] There may then be interesting discussions. If I can make the contributions to the EIA Act of 1 January 1990, I shall be voting in favour of the EIA Act. I have to say, on July 1994, and on the numerous innovations: In addition to improved civil participation and increased environmental protection, a massive administrative simplification and streamlining and concentration of procedures were promised. However, there is a total failure in this matter. In my home country, an EIA procedure is currently under way for a golf course to be built on intensive agricultural soils. The flowing stream has been upgraded, each still so small swamp has been successfully dried by the farmers in recent years. The highest elevation is a mole, and there are about three trees on 60 hectares. The operator must contract more than 30 landowners in accordance with the country's golf course concept, and a year and a half ago there was the first EIA meeting, which involved 48 persons: the operator, some lawyers, a few mayors, the rest were planners and experts. The results of the work in 20 departments have now been available for months. One would like to think that the authority is involved in summing up a decision in a decision and drawing up the notice. - Please don't! The Authority is now too much the size of the 20 departments that have been developed! What do bureaucrats do when the results found become too extensive for them? You're focusing? – No, of course not! They set up another level of bureaucracy, namely the co-ordinator, who summarizes everything, maintains the sensitivity and allure of the individual experts, and submits a concentrated summary to the Authority for notification. By the way, this costs € 14 000 – at the costs incurred so far of € 380 000 comparatively cheap. - That's not how it is! It is not possible for a project operator who is willing, patient, rich and able to apply for or have an EIA procedure carried out through a particular project, because it must be carried out by means of a case-by-case check. This was originally introduced as a rough test to the actual EIA procedure. Actually, a good idea: In appropriate time, the project promoter shall find out whether something is feasible or not at reasonable cost and project costs. In the meantime, however, this filter is handled as an EIA: The documents are required in this high and expensive quality, and these procedures take already over a year. What, then, is this practice for? In the best case, the project operator knows after a year that he has to carry out an EIA. The detailed documents may be freely used for this purpose. So we're checking several times, and that's got to be stopped! I therefore call for the promised process acceleration. We guided this in the right direction in July, but it needs to be improved. Double and triple tests shall be performed. The project promoter must be able to get directly into an EIA – that would save time. We will look very closely at the monitoring decided in the last EIA-Novelle and check whether the acceleration of the process duration is achieved. We also probably need an implementing regulation to ensure that uniform procedures are carried out in the federal territory. The number of opinions must be limited to the necessary ones – there are numerous growths – as I even advise house mind and eye-size. We are preferred students in the implementation of directives. I call on all of you to rethink in view of the rising unemployment in the sense of economic development: The creation of new investments cannot be explained as an enemy, but investment can be seen as a basis for economic development and thus as a safeguarding of jobs and the location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14182	The next speaker was Mrs Bayr. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14203	Ladies and gentlemen! The Environmental Senate Act will, if we decide today – and we will decide, I think it is very fine – remove the time-limit of the Environmental Senate and use it indefinitely. The Environmental Senate is a very important non-thinking body in the implementation of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act and is generally recognized for the very high quality of its sayings. That is why it is not only a pleasant day for the environment, for the environment-moving people and for environmentally-motivated parties in this country, but I am also very pleased that it has succeeded in establishing a further regulation, namely as regards the age limit of orders or re-orders in this Senate. In future, it will be established at the age of 65, which means that many young lawyers working in the field of the environment will also have the opportunity to participate in this important body and ensure that the State of the Art is actually implemented in environmental legislation, in science, in jurisdiction. I believe that this is very important for the lifting or further raising of quality in the environment Senate. I am sure that the Environmental Senate is a real milestone in history as an institution of environmental law enforcement that is set up in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14234	The next item is the speech by Mrs D. Winter. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14255	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Advisor at the visitor gallery, I have to compliment you, because you are definitely more than we Members here. [[Abg. Steibl: Mrs Colleague! In your own rows...!]] This is a sign that environmental policy seems to be much more important to you than we are down here – and then we are talking about a failure in Copenhagen?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: You're making fun of yourself!]] Mr Stadler, one more word for you. You, as the BZÖ's parade judge, would have to know that your speech was purely polemic and a word message on your own. This is a sign to me that the BZÖ is absolutely not important to the environment, because what would happen if there were no environmental senate? There would remain projects – such as construction projects – that there could be no second instance in the EIA process – and that at a time of economic crisis! In principle, the law: We of the FPÖ will give our consent to this amendment of the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Law on the Environment Senate, because the Environmental Senate as the vocational authority is simply important. Members exercise their duties – and this must also be mentioned – in addition to their profession, they are independent and non-dispute and are currently appointed for a term of six years by the state government or by the competent Federal Ministers and the Federal President. The changes that are envisaged to make this environment senate a permanent establishment are absolutely in line with the harmonisation of organised case law and are simply a necessity both for the environment and for the environment. If you read the cover and the explanations about this law, you have to say that there is rarely a law that has so few negative effects on other materials like this. There is no negative financial impact, there is no impact on employment policy, there is no impact on the administrative burden on businesses – that is very important – and there is – and I now want to bring this to all the so-called gender-wounds in this area or to those people who are very arrested by the gender goods – nor do they have any gender-specific effects through this Senate. That is, a Member who stands for the environment, a Member who simply wants to work in this system for our future, must agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14311	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Brunner. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14332	Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! It has already been mentioned: The Environmental Senate is the second audit body in the environmental impact assessment process. And the environmental senate is the instance in Austria, which really checks environmental interests and the interests of the citizens and the people. If we do not decide on this law today, that would mean that the environmental senate expired at the end of this year, and that would be a disaster for Austrian environmental policy. We will therefore vote in favour of the amendment, but not because it has just arrived recently and we are therefore criticising the procedure. I have already mentioned that Austria has no independent Ministry of the Environment. The first instance in the environmental impact assessment process is the state governments, and as independent as they decide, we are experiencing this, for example in the many citizens' initiatives. There are often close relationships with project promoters, industrialists, and decisions there are far from independent. Therefore, we absolutely need an independent test body in the EIA procedure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The environmental impact assessment itself means environmental impact assessment, but is so equipped that the economy is clearly in favour. We experience it in Austria: There is a wild growth of waste combustion plants, although we don't even need them all. A coal power plant will be built in the Styria in Voitsberg, once again put into operation – in a fine dust treatment area, so that our ever-increasing climate balance will be further deteriorated! [[Abg. Grosz: There is already!]] That is where we need an independent authority that carefully examines such projects. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: From Mr. Hirschmann of the ÖVP! Ood! He's doing this now!]] Just as the Environmental Impact Assessment Act is now designed, not only is the environment disadvantaged towards the economy, but environmental interests, people, citizens' initiatives and NGOs at all are disadvantaged when it comes to asserting their rights in the procedures. The Environment Senate is often the only hope for these people that their interests will be truly perceived and seriously tested there. That is why we need this environmental senate. It must not expire and must be extended or finally secured in Austria. For Austrian environmental policy, for more environmental protection in Austria, the Environmental Senate must be permanently established and the overall environmental impact assessment law must be improved. I would like to repeat: Austria also needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14400	Before I now give the floor to the Federal Minister, I should like to draw attention to the fact that we are going to interrupt this debate at 3 p.m. to call on the urgent question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14421	Mr President. High house! Thank you very much for your contributions and for the fact that almost all political groups agree with the amendment of this law. If you don't do this from the BZÖ and use it to refresh the discussion about the investigation committee, then be it stupid to you, but it's a shame because the environmental senate has proved itself in the matter – many speakers have mentioned this – as a body that is free of direction, which has a judicial impact and enjoys the high reputation – for 15 years. I would like to remind you that the debate on this was not easy when the Environmental Impact Assessment Act was adopted in 1993, conflicting interests were brought into a hat and accompanied by the Environmental Senate. We are celebrating this 15 years of environmental Senate and have recently thought of a celebration of this institution, which has proved successful because it is doing 25 processes a year and succeeds in bringing together the various interests that exist on the part of the economy, but also of the citizens, citizens' initiatives or of the countries and communities. The environment senate is an instance that enjoys high reputation, and that should also be the case in the future. It is therefore important that we extend the environmental Senate for legal reasons. Twice it has already happened, the third time is now taking place in order to have accompanying control and to help environmental protection to break through. In this context, I would like to mention that the novel of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act was important, with which we have made an attempt to combine ecological interests with economic interests. This has been achieved because, on the one hand, we need progress not only in the field of hydropower, but also in other infrastructure, on the other hand, we want to maintain our high level of environmental protection, water protection and civil rights. The EIA law novelle was necessary to extend the environmental Senate as well, because one fits into another and because it is important to maintain continuity here. To discuss the views of Austria in Copenhagen from now on and also on the discussion: The UN World Climate Conference will begin in 18 days. It is clear that, for Austria, nuclear energy is not an option – nor is it an option in the direction of achieving climate change targets, although, for example, France benefits greatly from it, especially now when it comes to achieving the Kyoto targets, because France is very committed to nuclear energy. For us, however, the peaceful use of nuclear energy remains no option. It is also clear that we as the European Union are acting together to achieve a successful climate agreement in Copenhagen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14473	I am now interrupting the debate on item 12 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:59]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on Faymann's complete failure in current EU policy (3733/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14503	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 3733/J. As this has since been reached by all the Members, his reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14691	I give to Mr Deputies Strache as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14713	Mr President. Empty government bank! I wonder where the Federal Chancellor is today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Maybe someone can quote him!]] He probably slept, as has happened more often in EU issues. But if you get the... Ah, you're here! [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: (entering the meeting room) Here!]] You still did it. Well, I'm glad. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] If you look at the unbearable and untold idea that the Federal Government – above all the responsible German chancellors – has given over the past few weeks and months to various areas and EU issues, then you can only find out more about the following sentence by Friedrich Schiller, whose 250. Birthday was celebrated recently, thinking there is: “This is where the guest turns with greys.” This is a phrase that comes to mind when you look at the policies you pursue on EU issues. In particular, you, Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann, have shot down a few goats in relation to questions of the European Union, and have aroused due attention – in the negative sense. In the last few weeks and months alone, the way in which we have discussed the question of the occupation of the Commissioner of the EU and how we have done so has been made public ridiculous, which is beyond national borders. As far as the Treaty of Lisbon and the EU taxes envisaged are concerned, we miss a clear position from you: that we do not want new taxes, even an EU-wide tax for our country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As you are probably overwhelmed, Mr President-in-Office, I think that you will not be able to represent the Austrian interests, and of course you have to ask yourself the question: Is it excessive, is it evil will, or is it just pure indifference that you show in these questions? That is why we have addressed this urgent question to you today, because we want to clarify a few questions. We want to know about absurd, questionable decisions taken in the past few weeks. We also want to know what you are actually interested in: Party policy and party policy concerns or a strong red and white-red appearance of Austria within the European Union. Let us take a look at the whole theatre around the nomination of the Austrian Commissioner for the EU, the way in which this was decided by the Austrian side! There has been a month-long Hickhack, a party-political fight between ÖVP and SPÖ. This has also made us ridiculous internationally. And the result of this absurd theatre was that now, as an Austrian Commissioner, the Minister of Science, Hahn, the man who was not really successful in the field of science policy, but also as an ÖVP country party, Vienna. So you have the impression that this has been an emergency solution. There would have been other possibilities, other solutions. Once again, it appears that our demand was quite right to carry out an objective procedure on this issue, in which we first debate what positions we can occupy – there have been quite high EU positions in the discussion, yes, are still in the discussion – and only then decide which people would be the most appropriate ones. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, we have not met this demand. Even your coalition partner, the Austrian People's Party, has announced behind the scenes – but also in public terms – that decision-making has not really been optimal. One has the impression that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, consciously tried to put the ÖVP a haxl, because the agreement was actually reached that the ÖVP should determine the Commissioner but that they could drive it in the ORF as you want. Apparently, this agreement did not work completely. That's the background why you're now trying to put each other up with a haxl. Our main criticism points are the intra-coalitional dispute over people, which unfortunately has not been considered in advance, which functions can be achieved in the EU, and which people have only decided to do so. The result of this process is now that we are in danger of receiving in the European Union an insignificant resort, a mini-ressort – one can also say “micky mouse resort” – even though quite different possibilities have existed, namely the possibility that we are very well... [[Abg. Grosz: I get a place – a miniressort!]] It’s nice to have such a nickname; there you can really be “spoil, ” gal?- Oh, my God! Other people have also been mentioned in the European Union, such as former German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, but also former Chancellor Gusenbauer. There are also very interesting positions in the discussion, namely those of the EU Council President or the High Commissioner for Common Foreign and Security Policy. So these are very interesting areas, and in fact the Chancellor should not pursue party-political interests but seek such high functions in the European Union and take the decision which personalities can best fill these positions across party borders. Even if these two positions were not in question, perhaps the agricultural area would still have to be obtained, for which the former vice chancellor Molterer would certainly be suitable. That's not a question! You could have thought about that too. But after closing the procedure that you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, have chosen, you are interested in putting everyone a haxl – up to your former party friend Gusenbauer, whom you have disassembled as party chairperson. This is a very sad fact, as you have done. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it is also sad how you are doing now, because you say that you only heard the proposals in Austria that they were only debated in Austria. This is surprising, because even in the Financial Times, there have been reports that there would very likely be intact opportunities for the function of the High Representative. Even the spokesperson of SPE-chef Rasmussen, Mrs Thomson, and the speaker of Javier Solana, Mrs Christina Gallach, have confirmed this. So these proposals were discussed not only in Austria, but far beyond the Austrian borders. This shows that you are deliberately trying to play this down because you are pursuing personal interests – and not Austrian interests! All of this is very significant for your entire political understanding, because as the Federal Chancellor, one should decide on such issues across party political boundaries. But unfortunately, you operate party-political agitation here – and do not perceive the representation of the interests of Austria by taking advantage of the opportunities that exist and which are discussed in public. I would also like a clear answer from you today to the question whether it is right that you have given the ÖVP the right to the nomination of an EU Commissioner to be proposed by Austria in exchange for access to the ORF General Director. All of this is topics that have been discussed very openly in the Austrian media landscape, and it would be particularly irresponsible and unacceptable if one were to deal with co-design within the European Union in such a way as to make such a deal. As far as participation in a modern European Union is concerned, you, Mr Faymann, have not yet learned your lesson in terms of democratic participation of the Austrian population. I mean that you – and I am speaking here of arrogance – have so far refused a referendum on the EU Constitutional Treaty, on the Treaty of Lisbon. In this House, we have tabled a total of seven requests for a binding referendum in Austria. Unfortunately, all these seven amendments have been rejected by all the other groups in this House, which was a very sad fact. You have given your word on the issue of referendum, Federal Chancellor! You even sent an open letter to the largest daily newspaper in Austria, before a large election decision, and in this letter you promised the Austrians that this referendum would take place, if the Treaty of Lisbon were to be amended. [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of Chancellor Faymann) Don't laugh!]] Sure, that's where the "Bundeskanzler-Grinsekatze" comes back behind me. I heard the laughter too, I don't necessarily have to see it. But you will still be laughed if you do not comply with promises made by you, Federal Chancellor. I can assure you from this pult. Of course, something has changed in the Treaty of Lisbon. In the meantime, the Treaty of Lisbon has been signed by the Czech President, Vaclav Klaus, on the one hand, because of the fact that the Treaty of Lisbon was signed on 3 March. In November 2009, the appeal against the Treaty in the Czech Republic was rejected, and on the other hand, because the European Council of the Czech Republic guaranteed an exception clause for the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which indirectly sanctioned the Beneš Decree. And that's exactly the scandal it's all about! In the main committee, all the government representatives, from the Federal Chancellor to the Foreign Minister, have said that you will not allow it, as there must be no change. And then you have slept on this important question or have pressed both eyes – and also the chicken tails – again. This is really a cleaner, because this is about illegal human rights decrees that are abolished! I'm expecting you to finally really go to the table instead of just watching. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is precisely because of such an immense process that we are faced with the situation today that the Treaty of Lisbon on 1 January 1989. ==References====External links== However, we have prepared a constitutional action in case this really occurs. The Beneš decrees, with which after the end of the war 3.5 million Sudeten Germans have been banished, expropriated and hundreds of thousands have been murdered, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians have also been affected, are and remain a cryout injustice, and there you cannot simply go to the agenda, but there you have to finally make sure that this injustice is dealt with again, regardless of the Treaty of Lisbon. Such anti-human and criminal provisions as the Beneš decrees have lost nothing in a European Union, because that would justify crimes against humanity – and that can't be it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I expect you to be different from those you have now shown. Let me remind you once again that, in the run-up to the European Council, in the EU's main committee, we have talked about this, and you have promised to do so in the context of which you believe that an amendment to the present Treaty is to be ruled out and that a sanctioning of the Beneš decrees for Austria is an insurmountable obstacle. That's exactly what you said! But all of a sudden, you don't want to know anything about it? These are the promises made by this federal government? And if that happens, what you've assumed, then you just go over to the agenda and act like you never promised or promised anything. This is not the way to make politics! If you promise something, the citizens expect you to do so and follow it consistently. Unfortunately, this is not the case with you. I wonder if you can even look in the mirror if you do that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Will you do anything about this, Mr. Bundeskanzler? After the Treaty of Lisbon has entered into force, what opportunities will the victims of the Czech crime have for reimbursing the injustice suffered? Or are these people really indifferent to you? I want a clear answer from you today whether you will really be working for the abolition of this anti-human and criminal Beneš decree – and not simply going to the agenda. Another point that we believe it is important for him to be illuminated, because he is very concerned and extremely negative, is your silence, Mr Bundeskanzler, on the current issue of the introduction of EU-wide taxes, which is currently being debated. At the beginning of November, the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” reported on this. That's what it said: The Commission proposes to provide the EU with its own direct revenue: introduce its own EU tax to go directly to Brussels. I ask you, Federal Chancellor: What's your position on this? We're net payers. We are paying billions of net contributions to the European Union each year. We do not want to have to introduce additional EU taxes. [[Abg. Amon: How much is that?]] At last we have to think about it and see that we ourselves have enough problems in our own country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With regard to these EU net contributions, these billions that flow from Austria to Brussels and simmer somewhere in dark channels, we should consider implementing at least 50 percent reduction, and not simply following the motto : [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Can it be a little more? The Austrian taxpayers can anyway be removed and cut out, they are already ready for us to tax them! That's your thinking! It's not our thinking. I think that a reduction in net contributions would be necessary, because we need every cent in our own country in terms of unemployment, which has increased dramatically in recent times, and the social problems we have, and we should not think about additional EU-wide taxes. This is certainly the wrong way! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today we ask you to answer this question clearly – no discussion, perhaps you will think about it and start a working group, according to the motto: If you don't know what's going on, you start a working group. – These are always the messages we hear from you. Today, we want a concrete answer from you to the question of what the negotiating position on EU-wide tax looks like. In any case, a clear no comes from the Freedom Party. I ask the Austrian Federal Government to have the same position in which a clear rejection is given to these EU plans. However, it is to be feared that you will again take a different position in this respect. I have never experienced before that this federal government would have acted differently than was stated by the EU central government. There we are always absolute pattern students, there you can do with us what you want. It can be the biggest nonsense, we always hop right after. And that's exactly how you shouldn't do it. I believe that the Austrian population has a right to be more self-confidence on all these issues and to put red and white-red interests in the foreground. That should be the task of the Federal Government! I therefore ask you, Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann, but of course also Vice-Cancellor Josef Faymann for an immediate opinion on this. [[Abg. Grosz: Pröll!]] Pröll! Now we've got a double cast, huh? Basically, you have to turn it around: The secret Federal Chancellor is called Josef Pröll, you have to say. [[Abg. Grosz: "Werner Pröll"!]] “Werner Pröll” probably, yes. But the vice chancellor Josef Pröll is actually the secret German chancellor today when you look at his activities. In the way he represents and communicates politics in the public, one actually has the impression that you, Mr Faymann, are actually no longer German chancellors. In the coming years, Austria will have to deliver, on average, 0.3 percent of gross domestic product net to Brussels, because it was previously asked by the EIA. The estimated net contribution in the years 2007 to 2013 amounts to €6.02 billion. Because you wanted to know exactly, I'll figure it out: In old currency, it is 83 billion schilling. Well, good night! 83 billion schillings we have to transfer to Brussels, and the siftings in some olive plantations, or elsewhere, where we do not know afterwards who actually held the hand. The gross contribution we have to pay between 2007 and 2013 is €16.1 billion. This corresponds to old currency saying and writing 220 billion schilling. These are probably peanuts for you – for the Austrian population, they are not peanuts, and at which you get so to speak on the question. In reality, these are huge amounts! Not too long ago, we had to experience that one was willing to take 15 billion € for bank packages. In the near future, the Hypo Alpe Adria will be back at the door to apply for another billion. Its own population is always meant to stand there, and it is so to speak, when it comes to anyone who has to stand up for it. But when it comes to redundancies for their own people, you have no money, because you need this money for other channels. That's the wrong way, we don't want to carry it! Therefore, instead of sinning via an EU-wide tax, Austria's net contributions must finally be reduced by at least 50 percent and the Austrians' hard-earned tax money must also be used here in the country. There's a lot to do! There's a lot of work in our own country, and we don't need to get these funds sent into any dubious EU channels anymore. We need this money in Austria! – I mentioned it today in the area of mass unemployment, which we unfortunately have to suffer at the moment: There are some experts who are already talking about the need to fear that the 320 000 unemployed we already have today will be experiencing an increase of up to 400 000. – That is, we must do all the effort we can to prevent this from happening, and here, in our own country, we must stop with investment programmes. That's why it just needs a rethink! In my opinion, however, what this government is doing on this issue is, unfortunately, not responsible, but in some cases even dangerous: One simply continues as before, is not ready to rethink, and operates a policy which is not necessarily for the benefit of Austria on these issues. We will therefore not leave you out of the drawing either. For us, one thing is certain: Of course, an Austrian Federal Government has to take care of the Austrian interests first and then like to think about other and beyond political initiatives – but you should finally start living this very principle, Mr. Federal Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14985	Mr Faymann spoke in response to the question. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15006	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is not necessary to introduce Mr Strache to you; To remind you of two or three quotations from Mr Strache – what he said about the European Union – is not uninteresting for the discussion, since the occurrence of red and white red within the European Union is such a great concern. Quote Street: “Eighty years after its foundation, the Republic of Austria ceases to exist and will be wiped out just as it did in 1938” – in connection with the Lisbon Treaty. [[Abg. That's right!]] ‘It threatens the downfall of Europe.’ “Austria will be connected to a dictatorial EU structure.” See, all this isn't our attitude: Our red and white-red appearance in the European Union looks different! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Deputies Dr. Rosenkranz and Dr. Königshofer:Leider!]] To your questions: There are, of course, various opinions on the question of the Commissioner, such as all staff questions, different opinions, different ratings about a person and his qualifications, his ability and personal history. I do not want to stress again that I consider Dr. Johannes Hahn to be an excellent proposal for the function of a Commissioner and that his activity in the private sector, his suitability, his comprehensible political activity in Vienna, but also at the federal level and his activity as ministers underline this from my point of view. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Weinzinger:... 5, Area Politics in Vienna: 5,... 5!]] There was no right of nomination of the ÖVP – the difference between a proposal and a nomination right, I think, is known to you, as you probably know the answer from the public discussions as well as I do in many of your questions. Nevertheless, you do not mind asking the questions that have long been publicly clarified again; They will, however, consider it consistent that I will therefore make the clarifications that have long been made publicly clear here once again. It has not in any way been offered by Commission President Barroso a place, a portfolio – neither indirectly, half or quarter, nor concretely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] – On the contrary: The public clarifications of the President of the Commission – in general! – also his broadcasts, including his interviews he gave in Austria, have shown very clearly that no country in Europe, including Austria, was in view or even offered any particular place. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Why...?]] – You should at least read your own questions, then you know what you asked. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: For the protocol: The ÖVP shakes...!]] [[Abg. Grill: This is important to hold!]] I too am surprised because it has long been clarified, but at least you have to make this effort. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Krainer: But that has been divided anyway!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Political residual user!]] As to whether there has been a chance for the Austrians or whether there is a chance of someone belonging to the smaller circle of candidates – I am not talking about newspaper articles, I am talking about discussions, many political discussions that I have held in the last few days, which I am also leading today and which I will lead tomorrow: I can tell you that the people who belong to the narrower circle of candidates today do not include a proposal by Austrian politicians or former Austrian politicians. [[Abg. Vilimsky: You have successfully prevented this!]] That in the list of Heads of Government and former Heads of Government, by politicians who hold or hold functions, but also in reporting all kinds of things, you know and have partly quoted them. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Vilimsky]] However, you have quoted a person – inadvertently, I suppose – who is the press officer of the SPE chief and current EU President Rasmussen: However, it has long been publicly clear that there has never been a list of candidates on which an Austrian name was to be found. Since this was even reflected in the “time in the picture” – perhaps you have not seen it, but the public statement about the APA – you have deliberately called it wrong again. [[Abg. Kickl: Well, then!]] But it is also indifferent who you call everything, I say to you again: If an Austrian or an Austrian – this also applies to the discussion to be expected tomorrow – an Austrian or an Austrian has a chance, then of course we fully support each candidate or candidate if this opportunity arises. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There will be quite a surprise tomorrow...!]] Question 15 concerns the opening of the European House: In fact, a few weeks earlier, when planning ahead, I spoke to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany about whether he is taking part in this event. – After he said he was taking part in this event, I saw our head of state well. I have also seen our head of state well represented by many other politicians of this House, the government that was represented there. – If such an event takes place again, you will find me there. Questions 16 to 23 – European taxes, financial transaction tax, VAT –: There is a five-party agreement in this House on that we want a financial transaction tax; since it is a five-party agreement, it is also related to you. So it is a question of me - and I can say that this applies equally to the Minister for Finance, in the same way to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and other representatives of the Government - in all discussions at European level. The content of this five-party request represents the introduction of a financial transaction tax at European level – yes, in addition, the introduction at international level would be desirable. We were almost alone in this regard at the beginning: France has put similar considerations in the room, but there are hardly any other countries that have spoken in this way. . Although we know that the subject-matter question is to be answered, who, at the end of the day, pays some of the additional debt that will be entered into Europe to combat this crisis, although we know that there will be more countries that will join this idea, I cannot seriously tell you at the hour whether, and not at all, what form such tax revenue can be introduced for the countries in Europe – at European level. So, like a discussion that is not taking place at present, the question of whether such a financial transaction tax will come at the same time as possible, agreed, coordinated – as well as the economic packages that we have created together. – There are more and more countries that join this common opinion, and we will continue to do everything we can to represent this proposal, which is at least wanted by five parties in the Austrian Parliament at the same time, at European level. Question 24: “When will the Treaty of Lisbon come into force exactly?” – The Treaty of Lisbon will, as you should know, enter into force on 1 January. December in force; if you mean the time: 0.00h, if you want to know what time zone: Central European time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: Bravo! That's how you imagine a German chancellor!]] Question 25: The advantage of a letter to the reader – believe me, I also know the disadvantages – is that you can always quote exactly what it says: Should future Treaty changes affect important Austrian interests, this should be a referendum in Austria and so on and so on. - I'm a hundred percent. [[Abg. Strache: But that is...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I therefore come to these amendments, first properly with Turkey, as your question 26 is: If the accession negotiations with Turkey – you know our opinion on the privileged partnership, that is a fictitious discussion – should come to an end that could mean accession, a referendum will of course be held in Austria. [[Abg. Weinzinger:... Lisbon Treaty!]] Questions 27 to 31, which mainly include the question of Beneš decrees. In the context of Question 32, I have to say the following: Theoretically – I emphasize, theoretically, because it would not be my opinion at all –, of course, the negotiations in 2002, when you were in the government, in dialogue with the Czechs, were a realistic way of negotiating also the elimination of the Beneš decrees. I myself would say in retrospect, as if someone had asked me at the time, that is no reason to prevent accession. I just want to say: You were in the government at the time, it was negotiated... – your party; I know you want to forget the past. [[Abg. Strache: I wasn't in the government! (Showing towards BZÖ) Who over there...!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Your seat next door!]] – So the seat neighbor, please. Others of your friends and yourself, politically involved in the same party, then have them – I emphasize: theoretical! – The opportunity was not given to move forward on a certain point in the negotiations, particularly the abolition of the Beneš decrees. This time, with the agreement you know – you ask me to give you the exact text, but the text is on the homepage, if you have ever had the opportunity to look at it carefully, www.europa.eu – this is not a change to the Lisbon Treaty, because it occurs on 1 January. It shall enter into force on 1 December 2009. [[Abg. Strache:... legal non-bindingness!]] The agreement you mean does not concern the 1. December – I hope you know that too and it is only part of your overall strategy to ask again. The question of whether we will approve an exception from the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, just as there is an exception from this clause, from the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights for two other countries – for the British and for the Poles who wanted it, we have already provided for it in the Treaty – whether this change is made in the case of a possible accession of another country to the EU, from our point of view, does not change the Treaty of Lisbon – otherwise the two former exceptions would have changed the Treaty of Lisbon – and from our point of view and from all our legal services – I would also like to mention those at European level, the clarification of the Presidency of the European Union, but of course also our own constitutional services – not at all a connection and therefore no deterioration in the question of the Beneš decrees or even the rights of displaced people. It is therefore for me, of course, that we are committed to ensuring that the claims of displaced persons are not reduced, it is therefore for me – in order to answer this question as well – that we continue to use all the talks at the official and informal level to address these illegal decrees clearly and for their removal and that we should represent the rights, should this also make further concrete steps necessary, of displaced people with all their commitment and all their strength. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: What concrete discussions have you held since you were in office?]] – I have already had many conversations and had opportunities to address this issue in this way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would therefore like to conclude by saying: In fact, tomorrow, in the context of the selection of two people for the representation of the European Union – on the one hand, for the Presidency of the European Council, on the other, for the function of the Vice-President of the Commission, together with the field of foreign policy, that is to say, the High Representative – to select people, and in the foreground of this selection – and this is also important to me at this staff discussion – should not be a purely personal discussion, but in whose foreground the concerns of the work in the common Europe must stand. Therefore, in selecting these candidates, we will also pay very close attention to whether the people we consider to be the common fight against the crisis in the present day, our view of a stronger social balance in Europe, our view to speedily boosting economic growth, our view that the wrong ones are not paying the bill for the crisis, our view of social cohesion in Europe, our belief that we are promoting environmental and climate-right action and security in Europe, whether they feel committed to these objectives. This is a priority for me so that I, as the Austrian head of government, will then agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15393	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Hübner is the first to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15442	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Federal Chancellor! Foreign Minister! Dear viewer! I do not have the time, here a co-referat to Mr Bun- to keep deskanzler to show now all the answers he has not given to legitimate, clear and all interested questions, but I want to pick out some highlights or a few shine lights. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Let us go, for example, to the financial transaction tax: The Federal Chancellor has told us that there is a five-party consensus on this tax. - Right, that wasn't the question. The question was whether you are in favour of introducing EU taxes – say: whether the SPÖ and the Austrian Federal Chancellor are to have a tax authority of the EU. I didn't hear a reply to that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] – It is probably a difference whether a transaction tax is created on a national basis, whether national tax authorities and national states are collecting a tax, or whether the EU is doing so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is particularly true if we are aware of the speed at which the EU’s “hydra” – the EU’s bureaucracy – is growing. Today, we have a framework for spending on the basic costs of the EU of about €120 billion – several funds are not calculated at all. This alone accounts for about €6.7 billion for the so-called external presence of the EU, i.e. the representation of the EU outside. And now, as we were able to read all the newspapers today and yesterday, at least 7 000 other officials for the so-called High Representative – staff, so I take back the word “official”; I say: Staff at EU level. If we put that up, it's about 7 000. It is not difficult to see the scale of this increase in costs. It is therefore particularly difficult for us to describe with “failing” and not sufficiently if the Austrian Federal Government gives only one finger to the creation of EU tax competences here. If the EU is able to generate taxes on its own, there will no longer be any holding on the expenditure framework. Once we open the door, the growth will no longer be limited. This is a matter of course for every Austrian politician who stands up for the people, for the taxpayer, for the individual citizen, for one thing to say no, in the case of EU taxes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, what is happening in the EU is extremely important for each individual. The SPÖ is now ready, as we have taken out the media, to question the people of Vienna about the future of the home-giver and similar things – although this may be very important regionally, but when it comes to essential parts, matters that concern the core of our future, the core of our democratic self-determination, the vehement and by all means, and not only in Austria, but throughout the EU, as we have seen, with the exception of Ireland. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] When it comes to Austria being subject to a foreign legal system, that is, to the EU through the Lisbon Treaty – and here we can talk and do as we wish – it is expressly in the Treaty that Community law applies, i.e. the right is no longer from the people, but from the ECJ – if such a decision is to be made, where it would be natural to ask the people, regardless of constitutionalist players, whether we are making a referendum or a popular survey – then it is walled, that is unthinkable! Not only you, Federal Chancellor Faymann, but also the coalition partner and at least one of the opposition parties can be found in a well-understood community. Let us go to the questions of fundamental rights, to the Beneš decrees. Both the Austrian opinions on European affairs and the Stockholm programme are full of beautiful words about historical awareness, memory culture, anti-discrimination, anti-racism and the like. Fundamental rights speak of it. However, when it comes to talking about concrete existing discrimination, concrete racism, concrete refusal of history, and concrete forgery of memory or refusal of memory, it is turned down. That's what we heard today. Well, we didn't really recognize the Beneš decrees, but we kind of pushed it to the long bank, we don't have yes and not No, we said they might be able to leave in the future. The fact is, in the negotiations of – I believe – 6. It was in the Council on November that the Czech Government or the Czech President asked for protection against the hallucination or abolition of the Beneš decrees – and only for that reason! – to get an exception from the European catalogue of values – exclusively for that reason! This is not comparable to what was granted to England or Poland, where the backgrounds were quite different, starting from abortion. Here it was only about securing the Beneš decrees – exclusively! There was no resistance, at least in public. Heinz-Christian Strachehat said that on the day before, both the Foreign Minister and the Federal Chancellor made it clear: All that the Beneš decree insements is a red line for us. – And now a state comes and says: To ensure that the Beneš decrees are set up, we do not want to know the fundamental rights applied to the Czech Republic! And what happens? – There will be an opt-out, as it is so beautiful, that the Czech Republic will be given the opportunity to declare when the next country comes, that it does not apply fundamental rights. The Czech Republic can therefore look at the development, and if it sees the fundamental rights are dangerous for the Beneš decrees, there may be pending procedures at the ECJ or anywhere, then they can “open out” to end this danger. Let us perhaps look at the Beneš decrees on this occasion – we are talking a lot about memory and culture of memory in this House, and that should be so in this context. § 2 para. 1 of the so-called Decree of the President of the Czech Republic of 19 December 1970. May 1945, the so-called Beneš decree: § 2 (1): ‘The assets of the State unreliable persons in the territory of the Czechoslovak Republic shall be placed under national administration in accordance with the further provisions of this Decree...’. To be understood as "national administration" was an indemnity-free robbery, so not compensation, as we know it in our legal systems, but a transfer without the right to compensation, to inheritance or anything similar. What are “untrustworthy persons ”? § 4 of the Beneš Decree: ‘The following shall be considered as unreliable persons: (a) persons of German or Magyar (=Hungarian) nationality...’; – There are then still b) and c), there are others; these are these antifascist things, the those who did not resist or drank a beer with a German and the like. What are people of magic or German nationality now? § 6: “As persons of German or Magyar nationality, persons who have become known to any one of them” – in any case – “have been known as German or Magyar nationality since 1929, or members of national groups, formations or political parties” – these peoples have become “....” Is there a naked racism? Is there any more nude discrimination? Is there a nakeder arbitrariness than these decrees? - No! And yet the Federal Government – and I say this with all the hardness! – made here to be the compliment of the other European countries – for we have not been alone here at Weitem – the state that has looked at these laws which we have now addressed as the existence of its legal order and wants to preserve all possibilities to secure them in the future. I would have liked to explain that in other words, when the Federal Chancellor used it, and in other words, in other words, as the Foreign Minister used in the last Foreign Policy Committee, in other words: Yes, we have not explicitly approved it. I would also like to remind the Foreign Minister of what happened in February 2000. If you remember: In February 2000, the ÖVP/FPÖ government was formed, and the EU responded at the time, following this Stockholm Holocaust conference, to the fact that it imposed a diplomatic quarantine over Austria because this government was not in general consensus. This is only a part of the culture of memory and should help us to understand the EU better and to understand what is under fundamental rights, what is meant by anti-discrimination, what is meant by anti-racism and the like. Last: Back to the case of Hahn. – I believe that even the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has not really been able to tell us why Mr. Dr. Hahn has been the best choice in Austria. Why it came to Hahn, we know – we can at least know it from the news, from media and from friends we have in the other parties. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We have therefore decided to put forward a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15619	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask a subsequent speaker to present the motion for a resolution because your 10 minutes have already been used.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15634	Then it's next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15678	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15699	Madam President. High house! When reading this urgent request, you simply and simply ask yourself the question: Who's writing something like that in the club? Did you use the most imaginable Ty- Pen you have employed to write this request? [[Abg. Neubauer: How do you talk about our club staff?- Oh, my God!]] What is not contained in this urgent request alone is worth noting, because we are now facing the climate summit in Copenhagen. Why is there no question about this? This is very important, the whole world – and today also the High House – is discussing whether the Obama is, whether the Danish Prime Minister is, whether it is about supporting developing countries, that they can also contribute in this area. [[Abg. Grosz: Not Obama again! You're hurting Obama!]] Everyone is discussing – not you! You are passing a day before the European Council of the Copenhagen Climate Summit. Energy security – something that interests the people in the households in Austria – is passing without a trace of your urgency. The Federal Chancellor was in Russia, the Federal Chancellor has tried to ensure energy security, there has been talks with Putin, something has been done in this area. – Energy security simply does not occur in this urgent request. [[Abg. Grosz: Was State Secretary Ostermayer also with us in Moscow?]] Where are the questions about dealing with the economic crisis? – It does not appear in this request. Mr Neubauer, I think you have written this, because you are currently looking at the most outrageous three! I can give you a big “not enough” for this request, which is a very weak matter! [[Abg. Strache: Did you sleep in the current hour today?]] Where does the economic crisis occur? Where are the measures to be pursued or to be pursued at European level? Where's that? Next point: Addressing the financial market crisis, new regulations. – I am even one of those who have the criticism. Where is the European Financial Market Supervision? What about competition in rating agencies and transparency there? How can we improve the control of hedge funds? That's where I've got criticism. You just don't have that in the urgent inquiry! It's a game of mourning! I haven't experienced such a request for a long time. I think the job of the one who wrote this in your club is going off today, because I'm telling you: It is courageous to make such a request here in the house in this situation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But now I come to those points that are really addressed in the urgent question. [[Abg. Neubauer: Do you want to censor us the questions?]] [[Abg. In the future, we will ask you how to formulate the questions!]] – Don’t be so offended, you will be able to endure a bit of criticism! The first 16 questions I would like to take away, because this is a mixture of trach, half-truths and untruths. It has already been made clear to the public a hundred times that President Barroso has not proposed a place of business. It is always said that he did not propose it, and again the question is asked, and again it is claimed. So, the first 16 questions, I think, we will not contribute to a serious discussion. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Questions 16 to 23 deal with tax issues. I must say that it has been said several times in public discussions and also here in the house: Tax harmonisation, tax dumping, safeguarding Austria's economic location and Europe's global competition. – No, you ask the question again: “Are you in favour of the harmonisation of VAT at European level?” – It is as if no one would have thought that this tax dumping and competition should be met! You yourself agree to a five-party arrangement on EU transaction tax – and you do not ask here: What is the EU transaction tax? When did we get to the world, did we really decide? – What kind of question is that?- Oh, my God! We have decided this in the House, we want the EU transaction tax to exist. It is not only a source of revenue, it is also an attempt to counteract these speculations. [[Abg. Grosz: We would like an answer to question 3!]] There are already governments that support this, up to the G20, that has spoken about that being an objective, and the Austrian Federal Government represents it as well. That is why I do not understand what you are asking. [[Abg. Stache: This has been explained to you by honourable Members Hübner!]] You know very well that EU transaction tax is either a nationally coordinated tax, and should it be an EU transaction tax, as a new introduction, this naturally leads to reductions in net payment amounts. You know that anyway! Why write You don't just: I know that anyway, so I don't ask the question. This might be easier, then you would have fewer questions instead of 27 or 28 questions. But it doesn't help what you're actually doing! [[Abg. Grosz: Question 3, please!]] You will address the net contribution from Austria. You know he's been halving. You can read this on all the homepages, everywhere: He has halved – because we get so much because we're just smarter because we put much more money in motion. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] Therefore, the net contribution from Austria is lower in this sense. To Lisbon. [[Abg. Grosz: Question 3?- Oh, my God!]] – You can say something anyway. – Lisbon is worth exactly two questions. The best question is: “When will the Treaty of Lisbon come into force exactly?” – That is a reason for dismissal! If I have someone at my club who writes in a urgent request: And when does the Lisbon Treaty come?, I say: You know what, I think you've got the wrong job, because you have to know that! Each of us here knows this – only you don't know. That is, you know, you know, you know – and you are the sector of the ignorant. [[turn to the ÖVP, to the BZÖ, to the Greens]] [[to the FPÖ]] I don't understand! Why you're public, too, is a mystery to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Mr Klubobmann, question 3, please!]] So, anyway, Question 25 is cut off. It would be much more interesting to discuss: What must we do under the Lisbon Treaty to strengthen national parliaments – the Austrian Parliament –? What is the implementation to enable us to perceive the opportunities to realize and speak with more democracy? These are the crucial questions, but they do not happen here! European Citizens' Initiative – is not present here, but we should already implement it. Turkey's accession is worth a single question – a single one! This is also a question I do not understand, because it is quite clear in the Government Convention: There's a referendum. If you ask me personally: I am against Turkey's accession – you know, I have already said this a few times – for many, many reasons, because I believe that the EU is unable to handle the economic, financial, in whatever form. That's another discussion, but that's worth exactly one question to you. [[Abg. Grosz: Question 3!]] Then come the Beneš decrees; they are worth five questions to you. We have already discussed this in the main committee. The fact that we condemn the illegal nature of human rights is undisputed. I say that there will be a political uprising of the Czech population, namely against this derogation to the Charter of Fundamental Social Rights, which is unsocial. This limits workers' rights, and that is the true scandal. The Czech government and Mr. Václav Klaus must do this with its people, but this does not have the effect of legitimacy. This has already been presented to the public a hundred times! That's a urgent request with 32 questions counted. 16 at the beginning we cut off, the really important questions you have unfortunately not been looking at. I have to say honestly, in the context of the Copenhagen climate summit, in the context of the economic crisis, in the light of the need to develop new rules for financial markets, in the light of the need to set employment initiatives, before all these backgrounds, to ask 32 such questions, which is really modest! I have to tell you that honestly. And that's why, I think, you're not gonna get any real hit today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15967	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16017	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There were indeed large statesmen who took on responsibility in the immediate post-war period, who have shown great responsibility far beyond the edge of their countries and are responsible for having peace in Europe for over 60 years and above all a prosperity development that is breathtaking. These statesmen are also responsible for the fact that in the meantime there are 27 countries that, where it is necessary – in some acceding countries – to adapt and raise common standards of democracy, together raise human rights standards, unite common competition rules for the benefit of the economy and thus for the sake of our prosperity, improve living conditions, also improve law enforcement and help the rule of law to break through in all countries, even where it is not the case. So, as I said, a breathtaking development! A small footnote on the edge: Personally, I am a little proud that exactly 15 years ago, when I came to this House, I was allowed to give my virgin speech to Austria's accession treaty to the European Union. Austria's membership of the European Union is a success story from the beginning to the present day, and we only benefit from it! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am less pleased, however, that is so many discussions we have here – and I say quite clearly: a pitiful discussion in some cases – but also at European level, also in some media. It is pathetic how the subject of Europe and this great history of peace are dealt with here, this great peace project. The issue of solidarity is made poor, only with the cult net payer. Dear friends, let's take a look at the numbers! [[Abg. New builder: You send the weakest to Europe and complain!]] They are constantly criticizing the Austrian payment amount. Look at the balance of Austria! That's just 356 million € under the line. Germany has a negative balance in the amount of the 25-fold Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What is it?- Oh, my God!]] So we really don't need to hide there. One of them is: Solidarity in a community that needs to develop as a community is necessary. [[Abg. Bucher: Where is the solidarity of the SPÖ, the living?]] Let us be glad that we are an economy which is net payers, because that only results from our being better than other countries! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Dear friends, the same applies to the topic of sovereignty, the same applies to the topic of game rules. [[Abg. Strache: “One-way solidarity” is called something like this!]] I am already in the Treaty of Lisbon. Dear friends, a community as big as the European Union, needs rules of play, and the Lisbon Treaty is a further development of rules of play that were made at a time when the Union was still significantly smaller. We need these changed rules. [[Abg. Bucher: What are those rules of play where the people are excluded?]] However, we must also take note and accept that, if we want to keep this Union functioning, it is necessary to do so because, or there, some right of sovereignty – for example – to replace majority decisions, otherwise this Union and this community simply cannot function. This is necessary, and this must also be accepted by reasonable people who are interested in the functioning of this Community. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this connection to the Beneš decrees. This exception, agreed with the Czech Republic on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, does not work now, does not change the Treaty in any way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] It is therefore in principle really to grasp what you intend to do here. It is neither to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic nor to the Foreign Minister that they would have become writty here. On the contrary: They have strictly adhered to what we discussed in the main committee. That is why every accusation in this respect is completely empty and ridiculous for you. [[Abg. Neubauer: The Czechs see this differently!]] – They say it, but that doesn’t change the legal situation. For financing. I believe that a community that has something to hold on to its self-confidence must strive to achieve self-financing over time. [[Ah-run of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Bucher: But not in here!]] The financial transaction tax, to which all of us have come to know in this House, is an ideal instrument to justify this in particular from the net payment position. After all, we would be the “G’schnapsten” – in German – if we wanted to continue doing so. That is to say, it is also to be welcomed, in particular, from the net payment position, to promote such a Union self-financing option. This does not have to be said for a long time that there is therefore a general increase in the tax and tax burden. Next to the question of staffing and staffing. It is probably an indisputable task for a President of the Commission, for a President of the Council to put 27 countries under a hat, to occupy 27 resorts, to find people to satisfy countries, parties, to resolve gender issues, to occupy four high-level functions, two of which are now occupied, namely the President of Parliament and the President of the Commission, the two of which are still open. Assigned: It is clearly easier to find and appoint a Commissioner in each Member State. Nevertheless, at the European level – and I am saying quite clearly about this too; also at the Austrian level – it is not a reputation or a success story, how this decision-making at the European level continues to take place and what has happened at the Austrian level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This has nothing to do with the fact that Johannes Hahn will, of course, be an excellent Commissioner, but the rest of history is not a leaf of fame for us. A final comment on the future, both in Austria and in the European Union. This applies both to the government parties and to opposition, ladies and gentlemen. In the future, we are dealing with Europe in a state-of-the-art manner with a further development of the European Union, which will benefit all of us, or whether we want to behave small-scale here and also at European level, to represent particular interests, to which one or another small format would like to please – but to the detriment of the whole. [[Abg. Petzner: That's what you're saying?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have it in our hands! We have the choice of how we behave.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16199	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16220	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! To Colleague Cap: On every occasion, they are building up democratic rights and opposition rights here in our house. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Lisbon Treaty!]] – No, you are always very passionate about speaking when it comes to upholding opposition rights, but then you criticize the urgent request of the FPÖ and its content. [[Abg. Strache: This does not fit Mr. Klubobmann!]] I believe that every group in the House has a right to ask a urgent question and to formulate the questions as it considers them to be right. It is not for you to criticize who meets which choice of words in this House. Take note of this at last! In principle, there is agreement across all political borders. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That this was an order drama of the very first goodness that the head of government, Faymann, showed, is not from us, that is not from the BZÖ, from the FPÖ or from the Greens. That's what we read in the international newspapers. You probably did not miss out on your attention in the press review, which you can see daily, that other commentators in Brussels have heard something completely different in this regard. Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, you're always talking about it, you haven't heard any voices. – I’m calmed if you don’t hear any voices, but there has already been a predecessor who vehemently resisted having any visions. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with BZÖ, FPÖ and Greens]] But that's not what it's all about. I am only concerned, Federal Chancellor Faymann, that you have made a very clear political action here, by not giving Mr Molterer the preference, as originally agreed, but by nominated Mr Hahn as an EU Commissioner. It was a purely party-political action – and nothing else! You have not put the interests of Austria in the foreground, but have given preference to your own party-political interests, just to influence the Vienna election campaign. That's the truth. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you have just withdrawn the Minister of Science at a very sensitive stage, as there is a huge chaos at the universities and no one knows how to proceed; Claims on claims, unfulfilled et cetera. But now you are the head of government of this government and you have it in your hand by subtracting the Minister of Science from taking care of order there. Make sure that the diligent students at the universities can come to their right, study and study there and are not hindered by any left-left anarchists who make access to the audience impossible for them! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] We are always familiar with a principle, and we hear this in all the speeches we follow in our country – whether in the course of the EU election campaign or in similar events –: Let's send the best heads to Brussels! Clearly, there is an agreement between all the political groups here in the House, because we ourselves are aware that over 60 percent of the laws we are dealing with here are from Brussels, 60 percent are EU directives which we adopt, wink through, have a comment; more let us not do more, perhaps put on gold plating, but basically the preliminary work is taking place in Brussels. What are we doing? – We send senior politicians to Brussels. This is not just something we criticize in Austria. This is something that takes place throughout the European Union: The fact is that all over the world we are sending out to Brussels, which is no longer beloved, because we no longer want to have them in our own country. And then we wonder in Austria about the crap, which is often sent from Brussels, what is going on in Brussels, ladies and gentlemen! Let's go the other way! Let's send the best heads – really the best heads! – to Brussels, then we will make it easier to argue! Then we will also be able to take citizens into the European Union and win them for a European position. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why it is completely incomprehensible for me, Mr Bundeskanzler, as you can deny, that Mr Barroso has shown himself surprised that you have not nominated Mr Molterer, to whom the agricultural resort would actually have come – an excellent agriculturaler who has already been an expert in the past. They are surprised and have not heard any voices. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] I hope it is not a lack of English knowledge that you are unable to understand what is being spoken at European level. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] But please take it seriously that a farm resort – one of the most important centres at European level – would have benefited Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that we show more patriotism when it comes to European issues. It is about the fact that if we want to have one, namely Austria as an EU slender, we must also make an honest EU policy out of the final light position. We cannot behave in such a way that we send everything to Brussels and make demands in Austria, such as the introduction of a speculation tax – here in this House a five-party request. Everyone wants this, but if our ministers and our head of government are going to Brussels, the latter will not know anything about it. Then he is not courageous enough, not self-confident enough to take the Austrian attitude and position there very clearly. And that is what we demand from our representatives in Brussels! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We do not demand this from an EU Commissioner, but we ask the head of government to do so, we also call on the Minister of Finance to be self-confident and strong in the interests of Austria in Brussels and finally to make it clear that we want an EU transaction tax. It is precisely a necessary courage to represent all these positions clearly and clearly. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, also as regards budget financing, we must say: In the future, we will all find it difficult to do what we can to clean up our budgets. But this is not a problem of Austria, but one of all 27 countries. That is why I ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to show more self-confidence in the future and to say clearly in Brussels what is the Austrian attitude! You don't need to hide. Austria is net payer, Austria can quietly demand something for it. The Poles introduce us every time, they are net recipients, each time they put up a latte of demands and are also respected in their own country. You are now required to finally represent the Austrian positions in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16350	Mr Van der Bellen has now come to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16371	Madam President. I must admit that on the one hand, I am grateful for the opportunity to move through the cocoa once again through the unscrupulous European personnel policy of the Federal Government. This is not the first opportunity, but has never been the case in this forum. On the other hand, I ask: Why do the colleagues and colleagues from the FPÖ act like this? That's honestly obscene to me. They want a toothless EU, and the Federal Government is doing everything it can to promote this image. They do not want a strong European Union. [[Abg. Neubauer: How do you know that?]] They do not want to be a strong Commissioner who is able – who or who – to say in that case – to provide multinational corporations with the forehead, such as the Nellie Kroes or Viviane Reding, for example. I notice, of course, that there are two women who offer their foreheads to Microsoft and the Internet companies. [[Abg. Street:...! You're right!]] You don't want to do that. They want the EU to cost nothing. They want the EU's budget to be about enough to provide adequate funding to the Community Council of Gramatneususidl. That's your goal. Why you say only 50 percent, I was, honestly, enigmatic. Why Saying You're not 90 or 99 percent? They want to break up the whole EU. So why so little populist, Mr. Strache? [[Abg. No, that's not right, Mr. Van der Bellen! We want a federal Europe, not a centralist one!]] If you were a little more radical here, you would surely have received some reader’s letter in the “Kronen Zeitung”. [[Abg. Straw: Your untruths do not become more true!]] That is to say, you want to continue the political force of Austria, which we unfortunately observe in recent times, at the European level. And the Federal Government is doing its best in personnel policy to promote this goal, Mr. Strache. [[Abg. We want a federal Europe!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But briefly to the Beneš decrees. You are right in one point: The Beneš decrees – part of the Beneš decrees – must be said, a part is clearly illegal and illegal. [[Call the FPÖ:Thank you!]] In my opinion – and I believe I am not alone with this opinion – the Lisbon Treaty does not lift the Beneš decrees in this part either, but it does not call them good either. In other words: He's neutral. Only: I'm interested in a point, Mr. Strache. If you think that the Charter of Fundamental Rights under the Lisbon Treaty would have a great meaning as a lever for the abolition of the Beneš decrees, I really wonder: Why did you not agree to the Lisbon Treaty if that is so important to you? [[Abg. Strache: We bring in a constitutional suit! A constitutional suit will be filed!]] That would be the lever. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] One more thing, Mr. Strache: ==References== The Lisbon Treaty is in force on December! The Charter of Fundamental Rights applies to the Czech Republic in this still undetermined but long time window. Try it before the ECJ! The Lisbon Treaty now applies. [[Abg. Strache: We bring in a constitutional suit!]] - Yeah, that's all right. In the Czech Republic, or where? [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Before the ECJ? In Austria do you want to fight the Beneš decrees? Well, please! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Street: Against the Lisbon Treaty, Mr Van der Bellen! A referendum was refused! It's unconstitutional!]] The Lisbon Treaty, which, in your opinion, is supposed to provide a lever against the Beneš decrees, which you want to fight in Austria?- Oh, my God! Once you explain this to a somewhat logically gifted person. [[Abg. Strache:...that still does not...! This is Austrian...!]] So: Now I come to the ÖVP, the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Stache: You can't kill everyone, Professor, with your exonerated way of choosing you! Let us take note that the process of the Lisbon Treaty...!]] – If I look at you, Mr Strache – excuse me, if I say so – I am not left with anything but to act removed. Sorry! – I thank you for the applause, also in the ranks of the People’s Party, but now I am moving over the People’s Party. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens as well as with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Look at this. You have in your ranks a former Federal Chancellor, who is also former Foreign Minister and former Minister of Economic Affairs and what I know what was still. Is he in question as a Commissioner? Did he play a role in this game? - No! They have in their ranks a D. D., who was Minister of the Environment and Agriculture, who was Minister of Finance. Was he named as Commissioner? - No! You have in your ranks a former foreign minister, who is now EU Commissioner for External Relations, and another former foreign minister, who would have been in question without a doubt. Are they named as Commissioners? - No, I don't. A profileless and unsuccessful science minister is named. This is the perverting of the thought I hear from your side again and again: Benefits must be paid, or: Performance must be rewarded again. Here the unemployed are rewarded with a career jump to Brussels. You need to explain that in your party. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For some of the reasons that are not known to me, Vice Chancellor Pröll threw the towel sometime in these talks and negotiations. Whether that was necessary at that time? We were still not the last country to appoint the potential candidates for the Commission. I can already imagine that quite a lot are now mad in the ÖVP. The farmers, but not only; the affected persons, who have been damaged without their own debts, et cetera, et cetera. And our Federal Chancellor Faymann – what has he won? Has he won any extra respect from this blockade of Molterers and other people? With anyone? – I cannot, of course, rule out the fact that there are foresters in the SPÖ who say: [[Abg. Kickl: What does “additional ” mean?]] Great, now he's shown it to them again! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where nothing is, there is nothing!]] This is European policy? Really? – The policy of dwarfs is that which wants to remain dwarfs! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] But unfortunately, this is only a reflection of the general miscarriage of the EU. There are also two new functions in the Lisbon Treaty, which have already been mentioned, the President of the European Council and the Foreign Minister of the Commission - let us briefly mention it. The competences of these persons, including in this relationship with the President of the EU Parliament, as President of the European Commission, are not governed by the Lisbon Treaty. This is a weakness of the Lisbon Treaty. But the more it comes to the people, to the personalities who will assume these positions in the future. Two prominent faces – that was the original idea –, two faces that embody Europe at certain times, which can, so to speak, communicate with the world’s Heads of State, with Putin, Obama and as they all may call. So I personally would have liked a team of, for example, if it were two men, that wouldn't bother me yet, but I'll be talking to two women, Tony Blair and Joschka Fischer. That would have been a great tension, I would have liked it. [[Ironic hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. May. Ikrath: For God's sake!]] & Reverse: Christine Lagarde, the French Minister of Finance, who has just experienced a side-long appreciation in the Financial Times, and Ursula Plassnik. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The one as President, the other as Foreign Minister of the European Union. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Cohn-Bendit as a press speaker, right?]] You do not like this because you are always shivering on the “Kronen Zeitung”, but I am still impressed by the final greeting that Ursula Plassnik at the time wrote unimpressed to Mr. Dienand from the “Kronen Zeitung”. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We need unimpressed, unimpressable people in these positions who represent European interests, by the way, and not Austria. In the main committee, I have heard this pottering issue again: the Austrian Commissioner as a hub between Austrian and European interests. They are not in the pottering industry, they are not hubs, but they only have to represent European interests to respect the Treaty once they are Commissioners. Maybe we'll get up too early anyway. The Commission is not yet standing, and the women in the European Parliament are rightly upsetting. [[Abg. May. Worm: Right, yes!]] The European Parliament must approve, accept and accept the Commission. And if three out of 27 possible Commissioners are women, I have to say that is probably the bottom line. I hope that the European Parliament will open up this box. Three women of 27 – people, that's not possible! The European Parliament should reject this proposal for a Commission when it comes to Barroso. And then we have another chance to discuss these things again, and then old, new names will appear again. I would be glad if this box would be opened again in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16689	Mrs Kitzmüller has now been spoken. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16710	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! High house! I shall start with the request we shall make. This is: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, the EU Treaty of Lisbon has had the worst start we can imagine. It was a blatant breach of human rights, and the head of the Austrian government is responsible for this breach of human rights, ladies and gentlemen, because you have agreed that the Czech Republic has been granted an exception to the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. The Czechs were allowed to maintain the Beneš decrees in order to prevent further claims for compensation from the displaced. Our Federal Chancellor, our Foreign Minister, as we have been used to by the Austrian Government for a long time, has been silent in Brussels, silent when it came to the representation of our own people. They have not taken account of Parliament's mandate and are verbally rejected. You have feigned yourself there, you have taken the applause and, with champagne and other heads of state, have launched the betrayal of the Austrian population. They didn't think at any time of the fact that the interests of hundreds of thousands of displaced people were betrayed. Like unsuspecting, ladies and gentlemen, a German chancellor must be, if he knows nothing about the history of the country he is ruling, and the interests of Austrian citizens who have found refuge here after the expulsion have been involved in the construction of Austria and also to make Austria what it is today, are trampled with feet and only what is required in Brussels. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How far away, ladies and gentlemen, at the heights of the Eurocrats, Mr Foreign Minister, do we have to float if we are to call this betrayal a success?- Oh, my God! Debates of the European Parliament And that, Mr. Cap, is not worthy of SPÖ. Only because the Beneš decrees are now no longer referred to as such, which may make it easier to implement and have been replaced by the term “administrative standards” has not yet been said that the Beneš decrees will not continue to live on and continue to be discussed. How far must one have been spiritually and emotionally removed from his compatriots when precisely these administrative standards are celebrated as success – this in the face of those who have lost their property and property! Mrs Frauenminister! Has They ever talked to displaced women who had to leave their home, whose husband may have been murdered, who fled across the border with little children, and who did not know how to feed their children, where they were supposed to eat the food, and who have built up a existence here under the most difficult conditions? You are also responsible for these women, Mrs. Minister, and not only for lesbian women who are poking for a supposed right to a beautiful ceremony at the Standesamt. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs – of course not here – have you ever informed yourself of the great work done by our people who have been displaced in Austria for reconstruction, not only with money, but above all with their knowledge, with their ability and commitment? With the Czech Republic, ladies and gentlemen, Croatia will come next, and then the same will start again with the AVNOJ decrees. And I'm curious if you're going to do something for the Austrian people or if you're going to lie down and say I can't do anything. Then I'll offer you: Let the people decide! Stand by your decision to make a referendum, to make a popular survey! Then you will see how the population decides and how much our domestic displaced people are betrayed and lost under this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16787	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16857	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16878	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kitzmüller said that the Charter of Fundamental Rights should not apply in three out of 27 Member States and that it would also prevent the citizens of these Member States from having fundamental rights. However, the accusation must be addressed to the respective governments and not to the Austrian Federal Government. [[Abg. New builder: You can't do it that easy!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the deep aversion that can be felt by the FPÖ towards one another within the EU is a kind of denial of reality and nothing but a populist attempt to swim on a populist wave. They argue with world destruction, Europe's downfall and the like. Panic mache, that's your method. Where it really burns, don't look, you refuse to look. They do not look where there are the real problems within the EU. All Member States are faced with these problems. They do not look at the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. They do not look at the unemployment rates that are increasing. They also do not look at the serious social consequences in the area of social security and social cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to ensure that the minimum social standards are developed further. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] It is not about ruin, but about the further development of Europe. They also do not ask the question of effective control of financial markets. You do not address issues such as energy security and climate change, although climate change has a major impact on people in Europe, even the whole world. For example, among the main players in the global climate race, including the USA, China, Brazil and India, the EU certainly has a pioneering role. But we can only do that together. Last but not least, you do not look at the issue of internal security in the EU and the fight against cross-border crime. This calls for cooperation. They're talking about very different topics. They do not want to deal with the fundamental problems of the EU. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is important to develop answers and solutions to all these problems, not in isolation, but at a common and sustainable level. The Treaty of Lisbon, which will enter into force, will put the EU on a new basis. The EU's capacity to act and the democratic principle will be strengthened. In view of the fact that it is no longer an EU of 15, but a Union of 27, other mechanisms are necessary in order to function the decision-making processes. So an important forward-looking step. The Lisbon Treaty strengthens social responsibility within the EU. It is about combating social exclusion and discrimination, promoting social justice, equality between men and women, solidarity between generations, and also respect for the rights of the child. This is a big step towards a social Europe, but it must be achieved step by step on the basis of the new foundations. That should interest you, Mr. Strache. However, this Treaty of Lisbon also provides more rights and control for national parliaments. Why Interested You don't? Why don't you talk to me about that? We'll know how to use these. We simply need to work to ensure that the EU does not act beyond its competences. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: The Lisbon Treaty is important and necessary for Europe. This reform ensures the EU's ability to act. Only in this way can we mix in the game of the Global Player. Only in this way can we face countries such as China or the USA. If you look at current surveys, you will find that the EU has long arrived among young citizens. A survey conducted by the Society for European Policy states that 75 percent of students are for a stay in the EU, because according to another survey, the EU also gives security and protection in times of crisis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16933	Mr Schüssel. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report. 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16954	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I should like to add the following to the remarks made by the honourable Member, Mr Muttonen: It is quite right, of course, the Treaty of Lisbon is better for Europe, but it is also better for Austria. The Austrians receive about two seats more in the European Parliament than today. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] - Well, that's not uninteresting. For example, for the Commission, the Treaty of Lisbon is very crucial because it gives us the possibility that every Member State will continue to issue a Commissioner in the future. After the Treaty of Nice, that would not be the case. There was even talk of a decline up to two thirds of the Member States. Parliament will be a full co-decision body, about 95 per cent of the decisions will be taken equally by Parliament. It's getting much easier: Instead of two dozens of decision-making procedures, there will be three procedures. The Charter applies to all citizens, except Poland, the United Kingdom and now the Czech Republic, what is detrimental to these countries, because the Charter imposes the institutions of the European Union on the Charter, and any citizen can sue these institutions. That is the interesting point. To be honest, I do not understand the three countries that want to give up this opportunity for their citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, there is a European popular desire, for which the modalities are now being developed, climate and energy policy as a new task, very central and important, and of course also institutional issues such as President and Foreign Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Lisbon has nothing to do with Beneš at all, for a very simple reason: The Treaty shall apply from 1 January 2014. December for the future and not retroactive. This is a very important point. To be honest, I'm a little jealous because Professor Van der Bellen took the point away from me in his delicious speech. If this were the case, as you think, that Lisbon would have given you the opportunity to have been entitled to bring all this injustice before the European Court of Justice, I ask you: Then why did you vote against it? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you promised...!]] You would have voted against your own concerns. And you would have to appeal to the European Court of Justice, not to the Austrian Constitutional Court, so that we can understand each other properly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To be honest, our argument that Lisbon has nothing to do with Beneš is also very clearly supported by the fact that Slovakia, which was part of the Czechoslovak Republic at the time, did not join the Czech Republic in the exception, in the opting out. So let's leave the story. We are of the same opinion that these are anti-human decrees, but that has nothing to do with Lisbon. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can't leave it that way!]] Now to the staff. It is a rather rather law since our accession almost 15 years ago that we must send the best minds, the best personalities to the European institutions. We have done this, please, with Franz Fischler, two periods of agriculture and fishing, a first-class, great Commissioner who has really moved something, just like Benita Ferrero-Waldner in foreign policy. No question at all. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] And I'm saying something about it: We, that was also my predecessor and I, have always seen this regardless of the party political coloring. We have been very committed, for example, to Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell as Vice-President of the European Central Bank, a great decision. It has absolutely justified the trust placed in it. Or Peter Jann, who was in the European Court of Justice for three periods, most recently vice-president as one of the two chairmen in the European Court of Justice. Or Hubert Weber, President of the European Court of Justice for three years. Or Edith Kitzmandel, the first Director-General responsible for the entire Union budget. Or Heinz Zourek – many of the names on the left are not unknown – who is still the Director-General for business and industry today. So: The best belong to the top positions, no matter where they come from, whether they have a party color or are independent. That was and must be the principle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the current Commissioner's appointment – there Mr. Professor Van der Bellen quite right – there were top candidates who would have been in question anyway, a Willi Molterer, a Ursula Plassnik or a Martin Bartenstein. These are professionals that can be used there at any time. Honestly, I don't need to comment on the echo that this found in the media. I really want to leave it this way, regardless of the people. Just think, Mr Bundeskanzler, of what I found here on this pult a few months ago. In 2004, we proposed several names. At the time, I proposed four that we should have proposed three to four names, including, of course, a woman, and we would have had the opportunity to negotiate an important meeting place for us in internal and confidential negotiations and also to give the President of the Commission the flexibility to put his Commission together according to technical and gender-specific circumstances. With some – I have listened very gladly – our candidates it is love at the second glance; as you know, love at the second glance is often more durable than love at first sight. I am pleased that you, like Professor Van der Bellen or others, have recognized the quality of some proposals. This could have been done without controversy just as much as Maria Berger's proposal to the European Court of Justice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] We know that the most important decisions for the Austrians – you yourself mentioned them, from climate change to foreign policy, from energy to the financial perspective and the future of rural areas and food safety for our consumers – are a strategic concern – no longer nationally here in Parliament or in the government, but together with the other 26 within the European Union. Now you have tomorrow, Federal Chancellor, to make the next decision and take great responsibility. I also say to you very openly – I am of course also now also cautious and hopefully not injuring – that no one who loves Austria and takes Europe seriously can and wants you to not bring Austrians into full responsibility for European top positions, whether it be a Maria Berger or a Ursula Plassnik, a Willi Molterer or a Alfred Gusenbauer. There must be no difference. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] No one, ladies and gentlemen, who wants an active Austria in a strong Union can and wants to imagine that an Austrian Chancellor is waiting for what names are called elsewhere and does not actively bring himself into the discussion, network, advertise and argument. Just one note: There are some names, especially in today’s time, called in the international press, not in Austria – from “Le Monde” to the “Financial Times” to the “Guardian” and today in the “South German newspaper” – such as Vike-Freiberga or our Ursula Plassnik. And I think it is natural for a head of government to be positive and forward to these things and not to be afraid, but to be happy if we have such opportunities and opportunities. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] To be honest, no one – including me – who wants to hear an Austrian voice credible in a European orchestra can and wants to imagine that we do not take on a more important task and rather take anything insignificant just because the Boulevard shoots against highly qualified candidates. In addition to what the Boulevard is worth, the affection of the Boulevard – I don't call it now – I can only say: Read today's editorial of a gentleman who is not unknown to you! The praise from this side is very short term. This is why my advice is: Do what is right and what you can answer before your conscience and before the Austrian public! No one, ladies and gentlemen – and I say that very seriously – who wants an Austria in an actionable Union can and can imagine that an Austrian Chancellor wants to sit in the same boat as the British Conservatives, who have acted against the Treaty of Lisbon, who also want to vote in favour of future treaties and are against a strong candidate from their own country, Tony Blair, just because he is from another party. [[Abg. Dr. Plassnik: Yes!]] I don't think you can do that and you want it. I don't think anyone can seriously imagine that. I wish you a good decision for tomorrow!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17077	Next, Mr Scheibner. I'll set the clock to seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17099	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already difficult with this European Union. For many years, we have been discussing the structures, the constitution, the Treaty of Lisbon, and we are going to bring it to a close – and then we hope that these debates will end with the fact that they are actually secondary issues, and that we will also be concerned at the level of the European Union with the really important things, which people also demand from this Union. One should deal with issues such as a common foreign and security policy, a common financial policy in order to end these speculators, a common energy policy so that one is not extortionable in the European Union due to the efforts of some major powers in the East, or a common economic policy so that one can see the challenge of globalisation towards the Asian markets. This is the hope that should be put as a European advocate in a common and united Europe – but no! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now you have these structures, and it is already being tricked and discussed and intrigued over people and organized a hack of speciality. Austria is particularly European in this regard and shows how it appears to be in Europe. Especially European, because even before the Lisbon Treaty was adopted, there was a preliminary decision in a political agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP that the Commissioner of the ÖVP belongs to. This is also interesting, because if you always say we should send the best minds to Europe, then only SPÖ and ÖVP seem to have leased the power of intelligence and dynamics in their ranks. [[Abg. Amon: Not always, but in that case!]] Otherwise, there are no more personalities in this country that could be said to be Europeans, who could also be sent. Parliament does not want to deal with this either, but it is a part of the party offices. The ÖVP has, apparently to calm internal discussions, nominated Willi Molterer, probably too early, and it has been disassembled in a public debate; it has no experience, no international reputation and that is a bad decision. The Federal Chancellor has already said why he does not support Willi Molterer: because Willi Molterer announced the coalition! That's an interesting argument. [[Abg. Dr. Plassnik: Yes, that's right!]] This is quite honest, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but I am telling you that this is not what we expect to be the basis for this important position. When you say, He can't, he has no experience, there's better!, okay, then you can discuss it. But for purely party-political reasons – no matter who it is – to exclude a person from such a function, that is pure party-political desire, but not an appropriate decision! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I have the feeling that this has also been a similar calculation for you, in your leadership, that you say: Willi Molterer is one of the other group, just like Wolfgang Schüssel or Ursula Plassnik, for which we do not use the same percentage! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What part of the ÖVP do you think now?]] It is not worth it to us either that we stay there hard, since we give the Federal Chancellor already after his party policy and nominate the Minister of Science. Interestingly, the public assessment of the Willi Molterer immediately turns around 180 degrees, and he is suddenly the perfect candidate, and there we would have got the agricultural resort, and everything would have been great. This is also worth an experience, but the international reputation of Austria, the reputation of Austrian politics and Europe's policy has done a great deal of damage. From my point of view, the Chancellors of the Federal Republic of Germany, but also the Vice-Presidents, who made this decision not according to fairer terms, but after a party-political manner, from a party-political, or even out of an insult. Federal Chancellor! You say that no one mentioned Mr Gusenbauer – your predecessor, many of whom now say he was not so bad – to take over this important office. [[Abg. Bucher: The Federal Chancellor just didn't hear it!]] If you say so, it sounds almost like They are glad that no one in Europe would like to nominate Wolfgang Schüssel or Alfred Gusenbauer for this important function. [[Abg. Bucher: You could name him!]] We would be glad if, in the important functions, the Austrians – no matter what couleur – were to be used, and we would expect a German Chancellor to do so, because the President-in-Office is an important function. [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. Shot helmet]] It is a positive institution that not, as in the past, a new President-in-Office travels to Moscow, Washington and Beijing every six months to present himself, and most of the time represents the opposite of what his predecessor said, and so that the European Union, the common line of the European Union, completely abandons ridiculousness. So that would be quite interesting, but for Austrian politics this is apparently not a topic. I tell you, Federal Chancellor, each of your mayors has another thought of the well-being of his community when the Austrian Federal Government shows up for the good of Austria! It's embarrassing and sad. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I'm not surprised that Beneš decrees are not discussed so much. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a question of the Lisbon Treaty, which is already true, but it is a question of the fundamental values of this Union. If the European Union wants to be a fundamental value-added community, there could be no agreement – consistently designed – to maintain these injustices, which were the legal basis for the murder of 300,000 people, then there could be no discussion of accession negotiations with Turkey, since Turkey does not support these fundamental values and does not meet the requirements for the opening of accession negotiations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] But we can see how to bend and break these basic values for political reasons. And as long as this is the case and as long as the Austrian government does not appear more offensive, it does not need to be wondered if the population is at least skeptical of whether this common Europe represents the concerns of the population and the values it sets out to represent into reality. This example, which you have provided in connection with the staffing of the Austrian Commissioner, is a bad one. It has damaged the reputation of Austria and has also done no good for Europe's reputation in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17227	Now comes Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17249	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! High house! I know that women's policy and the promotion of women's policies are not necessarily among the nails, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, nor am I surprised that this is not part of your urgent request, but should it be. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's what the Van der Bellen admitted here on the stage!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's what Van der Bellen said it's not a concern!]] – I know that you are not concerned about this and not about it. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Why should it also be different in Brussels than in Austria? But it is embarrassing that only 3 out of 27 EU Member States have proposed a woman for the new Commission, for the EU Presidency and for the new role of the Foreign Minister – I am consciously using the male forms as no woman was proposed for the position of the President-in-Office or the Foreign Minister. One can clearly only dream of it. This is embarrassing, as the Commission has proposed and adopted a roadmap on equality between women and men by 2010 and has recommended that all Member States focus on women in decision-making positions. But the fact that, when it comes to the proverbial sausage, the top jobs, the men are the faster in the EU – that is obviously everywhere – is no wonder, because in the face of loud greed, all – including large – feminists in the EU forget about women, about the nomination of women. No wonder. But it cannot be that the EU demands more participation of women in politics from its states, but it does not force itself. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Therefore, it would be very important in the context of top-level jobs in the EU to finally nominate women and to do so on the subject. It was also made on the subject today. And fortunately, yesterday, in accordance with all the political groups, a press conference was held in the European Parliament with members of all political groups, especially women, today also an action in front of Parliament, women who demand that there be still changes in this respect, or who are already announcing that they will not agree to the proposed Commission, if it really looks worse than the previous ones – only 8 out of 27 women, and now a much worse outcome announces itself. This is very positive and to be welcomed. In the context of top-level jobs, it is also often mentioned that there were not enough women and that no corresponding women would have applied for them. We know, however, that there are enough top women in this case, namely, excellently qualified women. It was mentioned in this context Mary Robinson, the Irish ex-President and High Commissioner for Human Rights, but also Vike-Freiberga has already been mentioned, which was absolutely able to hold this office. However, from our own ranks, Mr Plassnik would also be absolutely appropriate to become an EU foreign minister. That means there are plenty of ways to nominate women. The list could be continued by the way. What the EU Parliament has ahead of us is obviously the great agreement and the agreement on not being allowed to do so, not only as women, but also as a European Parliament, and that measures are being put in place and not only lip confessions are being made. A survey took place with us, which was very positive and very interesting, but since then no serious proposals have actually been made or measures have been taken that we will change something at the women's rate in Parliament in the future. The new Europe obviously arrived there shortly before the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, not yet being a new Europe, but being governed by national micro-spirits and not by supranational wisdom. What happened in connection with the nomination of a Commissioner of Austria's side of vanity and insults in the carousel of self-interest was just too sad. There are possibilities: You could make a two-proposal. You could go ahead with a good example and nominate a woman and a man. The Greens have also made a proposal in the EU's main committee, namely a three-way nomination, and there to nominate at least one woman. That is to say, there are possibilities to move forward with good example. I very much regret that has not been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17317	Mr Kurzmann has now come to speak. I place the clock at 7 minutes, and by the way I draw attention to the fact that the total rest period is 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17338	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by submitting the motion for a resolution announced by Dr Hübner: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to take all necessary legal steps to identify the Austrian Member of the European Commission by a public invitation to tender with a subsequent hearing before the National Council’s main committee in order to be nominated by a majority decision.” Ladies and gentlemen, I consider this not only as a Member of Parliament to be important, but also personally, so that we can save Austria – that is to say, soon – from a discussion that may break out in Brussels about the doctoral thesis of Dr. Hahn – which we have already discussed in the main committee – of which an expert has said that she has been written off by page, she is sloppy quoted and much more. So if this is the “visit card” that Austria is to represent in the future in Brussels, then, good night! Ladies and gentlemen, on another subject: With astonishment, the Austrian public some weeks ago learned that the Czech Republic is receiving an exemption from the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. The reason for this is known, we took this from the newspapers: It was the refusal of the Czech President to sign the Treaty of Lisbon. Václav Klaus has justified his rejection by claiming that the displaced Sudeten Germans could sue compensation the Czech Republic if it did not impose a derogation for its country in the EU. The surrender of all the relevant EU politicians towards this Czech blackmail – I say quite consciously – has made two very clear from a liberal point of view. First: The Lisbon Treaty should be whipped through at all costs, even though human rights have remained on the road. Secondly, The so-called community of values, which the European Union is supposed to represent or which the European States are supposed to represent, is nothing but a hollow phrase for gullibles, who by no means resists critical examination. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Beneš decrees, and this applies equally to the Tito-Communist AVNOJ laws – today's Slovenia is mostly forgotten – are absolutely incompatible with human rights – at least with them. Beneš decrees were the legal basis for the genocide of 3.5 million Sudeten and Karpaten Germans. University professor Felix Ermacora, who may still know one or the other within the ÖVP, has rightly considered the murder, expulsion and punishment of the Sudeten Germans to be genocide. And this genocide is now being sanctioned by this European Union, by this so-called community of values. Crimes against humanity are simply brought under the table in eye-to-face kumpanei. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: For a time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's really a scandal. It is regrettable that the Austrian Federal Government is playing this game with government representatives and is not strongly committed to the domestic displaced and their legitimate interests. The Czech side, ladies and gentlemen, has repeatedly pointed out that the Beneš decrees are constitutional. However, this also includes the following provisions – Dr. Hübner mentioned a few examples, and I would like to add a few more –: the decree of the Czech President of the 19th century. May 1945, which founded the replacement-free expropriation of Czechs, who were, so to speak, branded as traitors and collaborators, but also by Germans and Hungary. Here it is literally – I quote – saying: “... guided by the striving to take one of the Czech and Slovak soils out of the hands of foreign German and Hungarian farmers, as well as from the hands of the traitors of the Republic, and to give them into the hands of the Czech and Slovak peasantry and the landless, I agree on a proposal from the government:” – and then the expropriation decrees, one after another. ==References====External links== In September 1945, there were further laws, even a general amnesty for the Czechs who committed most serious crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, I can remember very well that the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has said: If the Czechs are only in this European Union, they will not be able to ensure the existence of these Beneš decrees. – Ladies and gentlemen, once again you have deceived yourself! In particular, I find scandalous that contrary to his announcements in the EU's main committee, Chancellor Faymann has fallen once again just two days before the Brussels summit and has agreed to the derogation for the Czech Republic. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, of course we ask ourselves as a liberal: How long Your half-life? Then: If you read social-democratic media, and the newspaper “Der Funke” is socialist, it is already here that soon the end of your occupation will take place. There it says: “From the crisis with the left The head of the party wants to maintain its course despite historic elections. That’s why the construction of a visible and loud SPÖ left is more urgent today than ever.” Ladies and gentlemen, it goes on in the text that has already found a group that wants to create these new links. – Perhaps we have a development ahead of us, as we have seen it in the Federal Republic of Germany with the political left. That would then really be the death blow for social democracy, which no longer refers to its former virtues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17391	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17443	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17464	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kurzmann. You don't need to worry about the SPÖ. We handle our problems ourselves, and tolls live longer! Don't worry! We really don't worry about our state of affairs. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That’s good: “Togethers live longer ”! – We have not yet known that you have already been killed!]] But now I would also like to return to it again – Mr Schwentner has already said it – that you did not even ask the question of gender equality in your request. Not once is there: What about sexual justice? What about justice to half the population within the EU? - Nothing! You obviously don't care about that. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We didn't want to dup the chancellor any more! What did the chancellor do for sexual justice? ...! – You can’t help anymore, that’s the problem!]] Status quo in the EU: 31 percent of the members of the European Parliament were female by 2009, now it is 35 percent – at least but still too few. - Good. European Court of Justice: We nominated a woman as an Austrian. You may have noticed that too. You weren't so excited as far as I can remember. But I say: We have made sure that now of the 35 members are seven women, that is 20 percent. So it has become a bit more female – that's an advantage. [[Call the ÖVP: Where?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: When is a chancellor finally coming? – But in the SPÖ all important positions have men!]] Next: 19 men, eight women at the European Commission so far. And if the nominations were first called four women and the women of all the Member States of the European Parliament have come together and said: We can't do this here, there are more women nominated, then it's good, then it's cross-party. And that is what we have tried with our survey: to ensure that more women are represented here in Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] . You would need a great deal of action, Mrs Belakovich, Mr Graf, if I look at the percentages of your group as it looks at women. Bad looks at the FPÖ, very bad! [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Take a look at the government bank! Where are the women? There are only men!]] Yeah, there's only men. The President of the National Council is a woman – only to your memory! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Your women aren't there at all! Good men on the government bank!]] Now I'm gonna tell you something: If resistance is now announced, resistance by the Vice-President, a Liberal Margot Wallström, when resistance is announced by an ÖVP politician – or EPP, as always called –, although the Social Democrats say, here more needs to be done for gender justice, then it is serious to take it! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We will kick it together in the European Parliament!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We have a majority in Parliament anyway! Let's get it!]] Austria has already made a contribution: Ferrero-Waldner, please, was a woman! We've already nominated a woman. Maria Berger is also a woman. We have also nominated them – only for your memory. Where did your contribution stay here? Let me now say something to you, for example, with regard to the European Court of Human Rights. Dr. Graf, you are a member of the European Assembly. You know how the selection criterion is designed there, so that this more male-dominated court becomes a bit more female: If a proposal list is drawn up by one country, then three candidates must be nominated, and these must not be of the same sex. And that's good. Here too, for example, Austria has nominated a woman, that is, Steiner. And that's good. It is very important that of the 46 or currently 47 members, 17 members are female. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But no one in Malta is holding back! What about Malta?]] We have, of course, rejected Malta – because it is also possible that we reject it. Malta therefore had no judge, no judge for over a year. Now Malta has found a woman at once! That's it! There too Margot Wallström believes, as well as many other women in the European Parliament, that there are enough women – qualitatively, quantitatively. We have them, and we will fight for them – and I hope across party borders – that more women in the European Union will find their place.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17630	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17651	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Now on the subject itself. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have not answered the most exciting question, namely question 3. [[Abg. Bucher: We have already found that in the main committee!]] I've been waiting all the time and I've been thinking: Now I'm excited what Werner Faymann will say to Question 3! – Question 3 has stated: “Why is Wilhelm Molterer as an EU Commissioner less suitable than Johannes Hahn,...?” Now I dare to answer this question instead of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I answer this question as follows: Johannes Hahn is suitable for me for anything as long as the dossier or portfolio is as unimportant as possible. Willi Molterer is not suitable for me at all because he is on 7th. July 2008 said “It’s enough!” and the coalition has cancelled. [[Abg. Bucher: “It’s enough! ”]] – Furthermore, Willi Molterer is not suitable for me because he is not called Wilhelmine Molterer. One thing, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be blamed on Mr Bundeskanzler: he has proposed a woman for the Commission's post! – Mrs Colleague, you should have mentioned this: Her Federal Chancellor has indeed proposed a woman – Mrs. Ferrero-Waldner, yes, that is objective – and has, of course, turned around on the screw of the fracture lines within the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Which People's Party?]] That is the legitimate question: Which People's Party? – That's quite right, first of all, you have to find out which folk party: Was it the bowl folk party? Was it the Joseph Pröll People's Party? Was it the Christian Conrad People's Party? Or was it the rest of the folk party? It was the rest of the People's Party, because Mrs Ferrero-Waldner did not have anyone to support her. [[Abg. Hörl: This is a fairy tale hour!]] Yes, I don't know – I'm talking about your party. I have analysed them, and therefore I say again: If I had been Federal Chancellor, I could say: As Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann, I nominated a woman of the Austrian People's Party, namely Dr. Ferrero-Waldner, but it was supported by the rest of the People's Party and was not supported by anyone else. – That’s the answer to Question 3. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Federal Chancellor! You must already be pleased that this kind of appointment of a Commissioner is ultimately and under the rule – and now to the seriousness of the matter! – has been at the expense of Austrian interests. For it is not possible that a whole series of newspapers are wrong, all of which have written that Mr Barroso had said, had Austria nominated Wilhelm Molterer, we would not have received this insignificant agricultural resort. Now, in reality, we get the most unimportant from the unimportant, and it is not yet certain whether that is at all what we get – for no one knows what Johannes Hahn is suitable for. I say: For everything possible, but most for nothing! [[Abg. Bookbooker: Key Service!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Portier...!]] The problem of the Austrian People's Party has thus become a state problem – and, Mr Bundeskanzler, unfortunately, you have approved it. I understand that you enjoyed it – I would have had it as a socialist party chairman. As head of the party, you are also sitting on the chair of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and if you are Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, then the struggles of the Austrian People's Party can in fact be subordinate, or should be subordinate. You should have seen the Austrian interest. And the Austrian interest would have been to get a Commissioner post as important as possible, i.e. to get a portfolio/dossier as important as possible. Mr Donabauer also confirmed at the committee meeting that Barroso made this statement, a whole series of newspapers say the same, and therefore it is assumed that these newspapers are not mistaken. Mr Bundeskanzler, I have wondered with what precision At the same time, they treat your own party associates badly. Then: To wait until the call comes from abroad, that Alfred Gusenbauer should get an important position, such as that of the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, that is a bit absurd. Each head of government puts its own candidates in place from its own country. You've been the only one who said: I haven't heard from anyone else yet! No Maltese and no Greek and no Swedish have told me to nominate the Alfred Gusenbauer, my party predecessor and my partymate! And as long as it doesn't tell me from abroad, I won't do that either. – That is why Alfred Gusenbauer has not been a Commissioner for you. But the reason was absurd! The Federal Chancellor has literally said – I quote – that: Gusenbauer is definitely not a candidate, because he does not have a Commissioner's office, it would be a prerequisite. Mr Bundeskanzler, first – first clarification –: A Commissioner's Office currently has only Mrs Benita Ferrero-Waldner. And that's where we said: This is only supported by the rest of the ÖVP, and therefore basically not at all. Two of them: It is not necessary to have a Commissioner's Office to become High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, but it is the other way round: If you become a High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, you are automatically in the Commission, as Vice-President of the Commission. – That means your statement is twice as wrong. I have only the suspicion, Mr. Federal Chancellor, that you already knew. You just believed that you had to give your own comrades a plausible excuse that you simply didn't have to have your party colleague Alfred Gusenbauer in an important position. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's a little bit of a sloth, the Federal Chancellor!]] This makes a deep look at the love within the cooperative. But this is not in the interests of the Republic! I don't want to comment or criticise your party-internal loves as a German chancellor, but when it comes to the interest of the Republic, you have to do it, even if you like the Alfred Gusenbauer or so much. If you have in mind the Austrian People's Party and its wing struggles, then this is one thing, but if it is to get out of the agricultural resort for Austria, you would have had the duty to join Willi Molterer. [[Abg. Bucher: Yes, yes!]] I am not particularly close to Willi Molterer, but I could have imagined him as a Commissioner – and I am convinced that he would have received the Committee on Agriculture. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's what you're saying now?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17852	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17906	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17927	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! We have heard that Hahn was and is the love at the second glance of the ÖVP. I am amazed how enraged and pervaded the ÖVP is of the second love. You should really consider whether you should perhaps confirm this before a district administration authority and have it checked. The EU itself defines itself as the most knowledge-based area. However, this can only work if every nation state, if any Member State also tries to make higher education more widely available to the wider population. That's not the case. And when we look at where Austria ranks within the EU, in all international standard and education rankings, the question really arises – and this has something to do with the EU: Do we really send those who are blessed with the most knowledge, the competition tests to Brussels – yes or no? Federal Chancellor! At your speech I liked the subtle self-irony somewhere. As for your judgment on Hahn as the best and most appropriate, I can say: You've also studied Jus, and there should be judgments right. In your judgment, I would calculate in the second instance the best chances that it will be lifted. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Hahn did not study Jus, but philosophy, and philosophy means, for example, the love of truth. I would expect this from a minister of science, because science also has something to do with love of truth, namely: to describe reality as it is, and not otherwise. Therein, he's not a world champion! – All international standards and rules, which have also been agreed with Austria, all the methods of statistics that lead to results that don't like the Hahn and the Federal Government, are answered in a reflective way with: That's just not right! Now you can say: In philosophy, Hahn represented the school of skepticism, which leads him to doubt international standards. – But it is not, but it is the urge for representation, after beautification, for camouflage and deception. If the EU Commissioner and the OECD warn Austria to increase efforts and give more people in the tertiary education sector a chance if they believe that the Austrian university budgets are too low to meet crisis situations like now, and I hear: That is not true, other standards apply to Austria, then I would like to understand this and I would expect a minister of science to be comprehensible of his arguments. Hahn, for example, reads with the OECD, we have bad – or we say: bad – care relationships. What's going on for weeks? – A study of Joanneum Research, where we suddenly have four students on a scientist, on a scientist! Four! – I then reckoned: There, the university staff, including housemasters, secretaries, other staff, including all the canaries of all zoological university institutes, would have to be involved in teaching in order to fulfill this quota. That means, that's cave bad. This is a wrong study, and with wrong studies one does not have a good entry into the EU because false studies lead to slowness and effort. Some of the few personalities who really try to look beyond the edge of the plate and their own interests are those students who want to choose not only the most popular, nicest and – from me – most comedy examiners who not only meet against tuition fees and against admission restrictions arguments but talk about education, value and strategy in a university policy that there is no such thing in Austria. If there were only a part of this courage in the ministry and with Minister Hahn himself to look at the truth and reality, the Ministry, Austria and the Studentship and all researchers would look better. If one believes that through a renomming project in Gugging, which is budgeted at €84 million in the final expansion – which is roughly the budget of the entire University of Salzburg or the entire University of Linz – it is not a university and research policy. You need to finance the university better, as all the data show. Therefore, Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann – unfortunately – not only made a misconception, but probably did not provide a good service for Austria to send Hahn to Brussels. This is not personally against him, but it's a misconception, and that's always bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17998	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18019	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! To reduce the current social, democratic and political problems of the European Union to a personal debate on how FPÖ has made its application today is not only too simple, but also goes beyond the real interests of the citizens of Austria and Europe. [[call to the FPÖ.]] In June, the European Parliament was re-elected and with 1. The Treaty of Lisbon will enter into force on December. The necessary constitutional process of the EU institutions is also linked to personal policy decisions. At the beginning of the debate, Klubobmann Cap asked who formulated this rather embarrassing request in the FPÖ Club. I think it was Mr. Strache himself. I made a few notes about his speech, just keywords. Mr. Strache, you have to listen to yourself when you speak: “unbearable”, “unsaid”, “unscrupulous”, “scrupulous”, “excessive”, “absorbed”, “absurd”, “pangs” and “sausage” – that is the vocabulary of Mr. Strache, briefly summarized his speech. Mr Strache, at this level neither Austria nor Europe can be debated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Van der Bellen's speech, which with a fine blade tried to spread salt into the wounds of the ÖVP, was substantially more beneficial, to continue to maintain the March, according to which there had been an agricultural policy dossier for Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's different in the paper!]] But what I'm doing with my colleague. Van der Bellen wonders: no word on environmental protection, no word on climate protection – quite the contrary: Mr Van der Bellen spoke in favour of the NATO axis by nominated Tony Blair and Joschka Fischer as the future protagonists of the European Union. I believe that there is also a need for a lot of content debate within the Greens. Ladies and gentlemen, what was discussed by the opposition today goes beyond the interests of the Austrians, the interests of Europeans. This personal policy debate is of interest to a few columnists, these are some media reports that fit more closely into the “Golden Leaf” and other newspapers. [[call to the FPÖ]] In fact, the discussion on the management of the economic crisis, the efforts of Austria and the European Union are to find answers so that the financial and economic crisis does not become a social crisis, the questions that concern Austrians and workers across Europe. Does anyone believe that the economic crisis, unemployment, the social context in our society in or after this economic crisis would be more manageable than in the Community of 27? Does anyone believe that the answers that need to be given to the problems of financial markets to questions of regulatory mechanisms could be better dealt with by a nation-state alone than by the Community of 27? Does anyone believe that energy security in Europe – as the German Chancellor negotiated it in Russia a few days ago – would be a nationally soluble question or that international cooperation can guarantee Austrians more energy security? The same applies to climate protection. Joint action, common interests will also advance us in the matter of internal security or in the fight against cross-border crime. Granted, the European Union is a process that is continuing to develop. The Treaty of Lisbon is an essential milestone for the Austrian Parliament and the European Parliament. More participation in participation and the participation of European citizens. Nevertheless, there are concrete suggestions on how to make it better next time: Pool solutions, several candidates, so that the President of the Commission has an option. I would also like to talk about whether, in the process of ratification, the debates on derogations are actually useful, because, finally, they are always the fools who rationalise, without any derogations for their own country, and then have to be asked why they are parade-Europeans. All of this can be re-examined in new treaties, but in the present situation, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased – after today's discussion – that Austrian EU and foreign policy is in good hands with Chancellor Werner Faymann and Foreign Minister Michael Spindelegger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18083	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. Your group's remaining speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18104	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Two comments on the Austrian People's Party. It has been said today – which you do not believe in anyway, but I also want to take up the concrete counter-proof – that the EIA is always only about the best minds in the EU, and not about the party political coloring, as Mr Schüssel has said. A member of the so-called "Schüssel-Junta" – it is now also known in the media that there is also this separation within the ÖVP club – Martin Bartenstein, in the morning "News" explains the exact opposite of Mr. Schüssel. He said that it had been agreed: a SPÖ ticket for the European Court of Justice, namely Maria Berger, and an ÖVP ticket for the Commissioner, Willi Molterer. [[Abg. New builder: Party propaganda of the worst variety is that!]] This is the policy of ÖVP and SPÖ, namely postage chess. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Schüssel's statement that you are never concerned with party political colouring is completely wrong. In the context of the EU and Europe, I come to a second issue, which I would like to address – in the wake of the EU election – on the issue of the refund of the electoral costs. That too is an important issue. All parties have approved a basket fee. Why? . It has been agreed that there will be an election cost refund of €12.4 million for this EU election. At the time, it was known that the Treaty of Lisbon would enter into force and thus the BZÖ would also reach its election goal, namely to send a mandate to the EU Parliament, and that the BZÖ would also be entitled to a right of electoral reimbursement. Nevertheless, the parties SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, FPÖ and Hans-Peter Martin have said that they are not more interested, that is not being adjusted, but they have collected the money from all together – for the BZÖ money the taxpayer should then pay in addition. So, ladies and gentlemen, please don't do that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We demand From this point on you too, pay back the basket money you have wrongly collected! That is, in concrete terms, for the ÖVP, Mr. Kopf – to the letter – we get 200 000 € from you, we get from the SPÖ, Mr. Cap, 150 000 €, Hans Peter Martin has 100 000 € to pay to us, the FPÖ 70 000 € and the Green 60 000 € – and not the taxpayer! You have wrongly collected basket money. Pay back this and also grant the BZÖ the right to the election penalty refund, which is due to us! Finally, a second comment on Mr Schüssel. He has declared the Treaty of Lisbon – and this is wrong, I must correct it – that it ensures that Austria will always have an EU Commissioner in the future. Unfortunately, Mr Schüssel is not present now, but perhaps he can be executed: The exact opposite is the case! The Lisbon Treaty expressly states that from 2014 onwards, a Commissioner will no longer automatically allow us to have a Commissioner no longer to grant each country a Commissioner that this scheme, which is still in force, is only valid until 2014. In other words, from 2014, it will also be difficult with a Commissioner for Austria. If you look at the post chess party here, that one of the worst ministers, namely Minister Hahn, is now being sent to Brussels, you can also partly come to the conjecture: Maybe it's not that bad, so that the mailer will be there once too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18160	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18181	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The topic was quite topical and interesting – perhaps not as you did from the FPÖ, but as the discussion then developed – but also from our side: No question, injustice remains wrong, this must also apply independently of political motives, but – and that to your address –: [[towards FPÖ]] The purpose is not to sanctify the means! That's the problem. You have one together with the Czech President Klaus: They instrumentalize the Beneš decrees in a different form – including President Klaus, and this is very controversial in the critical circles of the Czech Republic. In recent months I have also had some personal discussions with Czech Members on various occasions, and I can say that they do not approve of this at all. This is not a democratic behaviour which the Czech President has shown here in relation to the Czech institutions. It was a very difficult moment for the European Union to reach a solution. Thank God for this solution, I believe, and is an opportunity for Europe, because the Lisbon Treaty and the improvements in the Lisbon Treaty can thus enter into force. The strengthening of the European Parliament, for example, is a matter of strengthening citizens' participation, the possibility of European popular desire is open. – This is the opportunity offered by the Lisbon Treaty, and we must use it. But now to the arguments that you, my colleague, Mr Cap, have brought. Our colleague, Mr Kopf, meant that the media would write such impossible things. Mr Cap has rightly asked where the important issues we need to discuss today are. – Rightly, we proved this in the morning in the current hour, Mr Cap! It is about challenges that we are facing in concrete terms. One thing to you [[towards ÖVP]] Who is responsible for the performance in the media, if not the Federal Government? In the beak between the different strategies, it is about these or those candidates or candidates. One thing, Mr Bundeskanzler, I believe has really been seen in the Austrian population: that you do not perceive the necessary leadership. Leadership in this case would mean not to say goodbye to Europe's policy and then hustle and attempt to question any decisions in a quite obscene way. It would be appropriate for you to offer your own political candidate. If you already believe that it is necessary and right, you could have spoken to your predecessor, Mr Gusenbauer, a clear word. - You didn't. For gender policy reasons, we have also not argued negatively and assessed that: For a long time, you have raised Mrs Ferrero-Waldner to the pod. But honestly, the population has already wondered what a game is going on. What's going to be played, Mr. Federal Chancellor? – This is the real challenge: We do not want to discredit individual personalities, but we must try to take the opportunity to respond to issues as well. I will now try to point out – it has been addressed by some in the discussion – that: What reputation did Commissioner Fischler have when he reached the end of his term of office? [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: A very good one!]] – An excellent one, and I also tell you why, Mr Bartenstein! – Because he had the willingness and the ability to put European interests above national interests. On a number of points, he has succeeded in raising individual positions, far-reachingly based on Austrian experiences – I am saying so – at the European level. Tag: More intensive environmental policy in the agricultural sector; that was a point. For example, he has initiated the European Bio Action Plan. They may not have noticed it, but it has been copied in many countries and has provided a major impetus for improvement in a very specific sector. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you would have had the opportunity to invite the candidates. If you don't want to get your own candidates on stage, you could have said: Well, the ÖVP has a right to propose, but I also want a public hearing. I want to know where the candidates, in which field of policy, with which issues within the Commission, want to be specifically involved within Europe's policy with heart, mind and experience. – Unfortunately, this has been missed, and this is very bad. Mr Van der Bellen has argued in detail how important this would be, and Mr Groenewald has also made it clear how sad it is that we have a candidate and are asking the whole Austrian population why we are sending him to Europe. Isn't there a huge problem at the universities right now? Why are the students stretching? – This is not a coincidence, it is a failure in education policy, and this is serious. Ladies and gentlemen! The challenges relating to climate protection would have been worth discussing in more detail, and we expect you, Federal Chancellor, to be in charge of it in Copenhagen too. We expect you to make it a political issue and become active as a German Chancellor in Copenhagen. To the Commissioner for the EU and to the show on this: We hope that, despite everything, tomorrow will be a good decision for Austria! - Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[17:37]] [[17:37:25]] The vote will be taken at
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18237	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues, on reparation for the victims of the Czech crime and the elimination of the Beneš decrees. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hübner, colleagues, on the public invitation to tender for the occupation of the Austrian Member of the European Commission. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, colleagues, on the rapid introduction of an EU-wide speculation tax. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. [[17:38:31]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18312	We are in favour of a short debate. This short debate concerns the request of the honourable Member. Musiol, the Family Committee on Reporting on Amendment No 598/A(E) by Mr Mag. Musiol, colleagues in the Federal Principle Law on Childcare, a period of up to 28 years. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the first speaker has a 10 minute speaking time for reasons, that members of the Federal Government or State Secretary should not speak for more than 10 minutes. Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18346	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr Ostermayer, the Secretary of State, regrets that you are preparing to go, because this important debate is now about our education system in Austria. As has been said many times, this would be a debate in which our Heads of State, the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance would have to engage on a number of occasions, because this is quite a question of shortcomings due to non-existent financial possibilities. - It's a shame you're leaving! We will continue the debate without you and perhaps give you the minutes. The university is burning – not only the university, there have been protests in the childcare area for months! What do these two protests, these democratic “evilers ” of different persons, have in common? – These are educational institutions. The childcare facilities, kindergartens, parents-managed children's groups, private kindergartens are the first educational institution in which our little ones go; the universities are hopefully not the last educational institutions, but at least those visited at advanced age; and there are massive problems in both areas. For months kindergarten teachers and parents have been resisting the increasingly intensified framework conditions that prevail in our childcare landscape. Quality in educational institutions has suffered massively, especially since the introduction of the free kindergarten, but also the compulsory kindergarten. year. There are too few places, there are too few kindergarten teachers, and it is impossible to speak of quality childcare. That's exactly what the educators are about! Quality in our educational institutions is an important prerequisite for individual funding to be possible at all that children have opportunities from the start. But it is currently in Austria that it depends on the wallet, depends on the postal code, and depends on the world view of mayors, which opportunities children find in Austria. In May, we submitted a request for an Education Framework Law on Childcare and debated it in the Family Committee. This has been delayed – how many oppositional applications the government parties do not want to decide on. State Secretary Marek said she was for such a federal framework law, but that's not possible. She didn't explain to us what's not going on, we can only suspect it. As a learned Austrian, as a learned observer of the ÖVP, I assume: It is not possible for a member of the federal government to assume that it can prevail against the concrete fractions in the countries, and because one assumes that this is not possible, one does not try at all. Now, of course, it's exciting to have the office of Secretary of State Marek as the top candidate in Vienna, because now she has two multiple functions: It has a national function and a federal function. It will be very exciting how she, as the competent State Secretary, will solve this spagate, because her rural group has long called for such a federal framework law. On whose back is this adjournment policy going on? – It happens on the back of the children, it happens on the back of the parents, it happens on the back of the educators. In Vienna, for example, we have precarious situations since the free kindergarten election, we have overcrowded groups, the group sizes are exceeded. There is a lack of kindergarten teachers, we have for weeks had a massive failure of kindergarten teachers due to burnout and unbearable conditions in the childcare facility. At the same time, in Vienna, in Lower Austria, in other federal states children's groups, kindergartens are closed because these institutions, although they have done high quality work for many years, are unable to work under these conditions. This, of course, means that we still have fewer places. There are chaotic conditions at country borders, for example Perchtoldsdorf/Vienna, where children whose parents work in Vienna drive with their parents to Vienna to go to a childcare facility there. Then there is the inequality that the Vienna children and the Wiener parents are free of contributions, but the Lower Austrian children are not free of contributions. That can be, please, not in the sense of the covenant! It cannot be in the sense of the Austrian Federal Government that it depends on the postal code and the question of the place of work of the parents whether to pay for childcare or not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it's not just the group sizes that's overstretched, but it's the whole situation overstepped. They have acted too late, because what we now have are kindergarten teachers who for the first time sit down in their history for the first time, sit down with our support for the Wehr and walk on the road. ==References== The first protest action took place on October 3,500 people, numerous kindergarten pedagogues, assistants, as well as parents. When it comes to kindergarten teachers and the Rah- They know the conditions under which they work, then they know that this is a professional group that doesn't go on the road so fast and stands for their own interests, but first looks at the children and the parents before they look at themselves. There will be another day of protest, the coming Saturday, the 21. November. There will not only be protested in Vienna, but throughout Austria. We will see how many kindergarten teachers and parents will make use of this democratic right. In any case, we Greens will support them and not, as other parties did on the last day of the protest, either get their concerns in the way of ridicule or carry out a policy of announcement. I would like to give you a few quotes on this policy of announcement. I have already reported that we had this federal framework law in the Family Committee and that the government parties have postponed it. We know who the government parties are: SPÖ and ÖVP. Now I will read to you some quotations from SPÖ and ÖVP politicians who have made them since that delay. 17. October 2009, on the day of the last kindergarten protest, Minister of Women Heinisch-Hosek – I quote –: “We are committed to ensuring that there are the same standards throughout Austria in all educational facilities for those under 6-year-olds. This can only be regulated with a federal uniform framework law for childcare.” 17. October 2009, City Councillor Oxonite, responsible city councillor in Vienna: ‘It is now time to establish ‘almost uniform standards’. 13. October 2009, you, Mrs. Wurm, from the SPÖ: "A federal uniform framework law for childcare facilities with minimum standards of group size, care key and training would improve the situation for all parties involved. It would have a positive impact on the working conditions of kindergarten teachers and, above all, on the situation of children.” 22. October 2009, State Secretary Marek von der ÖVP: “I am standing” – the emphasis lies on the conjunctive – “a federal framework law positive”. 20. October 2009, FSG federal women – the SPÖ is not close –: “Overdue are also a federal framework law with uniform quality standards...” Yeah, long overdue! That is our opinion, therefore, of this proposal for a deadline: a deadline until the plenary session in January. I'm very excited about how you're gonna defend yourself here today. I am already very excited whether you will really make nails with our heads together and whether you will implement the promises – these announcements you make in the media – for the benefit of the children in our country, for the benefit of the parents and above all for the benefit of the employees in this field! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18454	Next speaker: Mrs Binder-Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18475	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A preliminary remark, Mrs Musiol: The issue of child care is important to the Federal Chancellor. Only I think responsibilities and competences should be established wherever they belong. In this case, there are clear division of tasks. Secondly, Mrs Musiol: You propose a deadline today by adopting and implementing a request from you in the Family Committee, namely the amendment of constitutional provisions of competence and the creation of a federal uniform principle law, and the countries have to do so. Just, Mrs. Musiol, it's not that simple! You certainly also know that politics does not work so easily. We submitted a request from the SPÖ Group in 2006 concerning a federal framework law for children's institutions. Yes, that's been a few years! But, as you see it, your demand, which you present today, is symbolically not speaking a new invention of the wheel. In this matter, we certainly do not want to agree on fairness, just, ladies and gentlemen, we stand by the fact that we are implementing step by step, action, activity for activity, serious, as it seems important to us for a proper policy for people. Ladies and gentlemen, last year we launched a great deal of work, starting with the public and political acceptance of childcare facilities, kindergartens, educational gardens. This is not a matter of course! We have launched the free mandatory last kindergarten year before entering school, and we have the first transnational education plan for all kindergartens in Austria, leading by Minister Schmied, including the cooperation of many experts and also of the Charlotte Bühler Institute. I think these are measures, these are points that we can be proud of and that seem important and necessary to us. In addition, of course, the different benefits of the individual federal states and of the municipalities, which can also be ignored. We know that this education plan is an important instrument for ensuring that children have the best starting conditions in their future lives. That also means that we are on the right track with the education plan. But, Mrs Musiol, of course, I'm right: Of course, a clearly defined structural plan is needed in order to be able to implement this education programme, which is qualitative and quality. At present – and you know that exactly – the federal states are responsible, often also the municipalities, and largely this quality claim, which we all have, is very committed, very self-evident and also implemented with high financial effort. Mrs Musiol, serious political work for us means step by step, one by step. [[Abg. May. Musiol: But how do you explain that on Saturday...?]] [[Abg. May. Musiol: The committee is half a year ago!]] I understand your impatience, I understand my impatience, but of course we have to take one step after another, ladies and gentlemen, so that in the end we can find out what is important to us, namely that the children benefit. [[Abg. May. Musiol: How do you explain that on Saturday thousands...?]] One, Mrs Musiol, I would like to stress: Respect and recognition should be paid to childcare teachers, kindergarten teachers and teachers. However, we still have gaps in the care of the under-three-year-olds – no question, I do not want to hide that – we need to rethink the structures, opening hours, group sizes, equipment, staff training. That's nothing new, we know. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Payment!]] Payment, remuneration, quite precisely; different regulations, nine federal regulations. We still have a lot to do, we will continue to work, and I ask you to cooperate. But deadlines will not benefit us in implementing a high-quality child care law that is valid for all and that benefits the children. [[Abg. Oillinger: A deadline would be a small step!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18573	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18594	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr. Musiol says that there have been protests on the part of kindergarten teachers for months, you have to say: Yes, they are, but they are stronger in Vienna, they are well organized here in Vienna. [[Abg. Oillingers: Throughout Austria!]] You also need to know that this, especially from payment, is a special problem on the part of Vienna and the surrounding area, from much more, also from the expenditure. However, I would also like to say the following. We all know and should really express thanks for the work of kindergarten teachers. They do a lot, especially now that we are increasingly moving in the direction that both parents are employed, which is necessary and good in many areas. But one should also help parents to see that they also have an assignment to give their children education, life training. If you're talking about a compulsory kindergarten from the first year of life, I'd think it over. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Legal claim from the first year!]] I think we took a big step this summer: Childcare free of charge, in some federal states from the third year of life or mandatory from the fifth year of life. I would also like to say one thing to you: Perhaps you do not know the situation in the rural regions. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Yes!]] In micro-communities it is much different, sometimes much more familiar, and it is also very consciously worked on because of the knowledge of the importance of children, not only because the next census is coming, but also because it is our future because it is the future of communities. There are already the cross-aged groups, there are communities that are more interested in thinking and working with businesses in the direction of farm kindergartens. There is also the increased quality mother-in-law training. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Is there also opening hours that both parents can be employed?]] I'll give you the right to: Of course we have to work on it. But one should also look at the need and, of course, cover the need. I would also like to point out once again: Under State Secretary Christine Marek and our family minister, Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner, it has really succeeded in introducing the compulsory kindergarten year with the government partner party. Or you also forget that we provide €700 000 annually in special budget for innovative childcare projects. Or you also forget the agreement between the Federal Government and countries that there is now a massive support in the promotion of language breakfast. Building on this education plan, an integrated model for five-year-olds will be developed by June 2010. So we have done a lot in the one year of government in family policy and in the area for the good of the child. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As has already been said: Of course, discussing a federal principle law on child care is legitimate. But it also raises the question: How legitimate is it to regulate everything centrally? Is it not possible to regulate one thing or another where decisions are made where the offer is made? [[Abg. May. Musiol: Minimum standards!]] In particular, the kindergartens are responsible for municipalities and countries. That does not mean not demanding the federal responsibility, but the responsibility of the federal government was settled with the first steps, including massive funding. That is also to say, the question of any shift of competence is permissible, and the principle legislation of the Federal Government, as well as implementing legislation and enforcement countries should be discussed from our point of view in the context of a general constitutional and administrative reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18693	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18714	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, we will agree to the deadline, but we firmly reject the underlying proposal. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's a logic!]] We believe that issues should be dealt with where they can best be addressed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Since there is a great difference in the needs for care, for example in Vienna and Bregenz Forest, the competence of the country is certainly well established here. We also believe that federalism is important and that changes in competence need to be handled in principle with care. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Without involving the countries which are not mentioned in your resolution with a word, changes in competence should in principle not be made. The regulatory areas you propose go far beyond the principle legislation, and there was very little room left for the national legislator. Since the FPÖ advocates the freedom of choice and the autonomy of families, we can hardly start with a mandatory kindergarten visit from four years old and the foreign care of one year-old infants. We reject such ideologically motivated efforts, which should be based on the fact that the children are not bound and no longer related to their own parents. [[Abg. Oils: My God!]] In family policy, it is not about the wishes and desires of politicians, women's organizations or left ideologists, but about the needs of the families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As has already been said, we reject this motion for a resolution but are willing to ensure, by means of the support of the deadline, that there is a negative committee report in the new year. We will be happy to help you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18793	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18814	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Mrs Binder-Maier for the fact that, as in the Committee, there is the statement that the issue is very important, but it is also very complicated. The former Chancellor Sinowatz has already said that everything is very complicated. I realize that much is not easy to solve, but I wonder: When, if not now, are we finally going on the major education and school reforms? We don't have time to wait anymore! In the administration, we have double-tracks, multi-tracks, division of competence, including multi-party parties in school supervision, at the national school councils, at the district school councils. Therefore, we have introduced from the BZÖ a so-called economic package for school reform and education reform, where we have said that we need a radical simplification of competence in the sense that the legislation, the framework legislation of the federal government, and the countries take over enforcement. This can be done without a doubt for childcare, for pre-school childcare. The fact that this is complicated also shows the difficulty of the Youth Protection Act, in which the countries have been blocking for years and it is not possible to implement something. Or, as a second example, a uniform right of service and remuneration for teachers. No one understands why we have nine different country teacher service rights, why we have a federal teacher service right. We should also involve kindergarten teachers when it comes to the harmonisation of the law of the service, in the harmonisation of training, because we will not be able to make a school reform without pre-school involvement, without the involvement of early childhood educators. That's the only way it'll work! Mrs Musiol said quite correctly that the free-school year, the free-school years, the compulsory kindergarten year before entering school had been introduced very quickly. But there are problems. You also have to plan these things properly, and for that you would have had time to do this instead of just as an election sugar specifically in Vienna. We from the BZÖ will support this deadline. We also support many of the demands contained in this deadline proposal, because they overlap with our demands, not all, but a few important ones, such as the education plan, which is now supposed to have been in place for two weeks. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Only no one knows him!]] It would also be interesting to see it now in a family committee or in a teaching committee and to check if it is practical. How are the framework conditions, how can you implement this? So far, there have been only three federal states that had an education plan, those were Vorarlberg, Vienna and Carinthia. The training of dayparents is also very important to us. We have also tabled an application for uniform training, vocational definition and salary for day-parents, because we have a situation that is really unbearable in the area. There are not only nine different federal states at work with their respective offers, but in the federal states there are in turn clubs, a red club and a black club, and everyone makes it different again. In this area too, there is a need for uniform improvements in order to preserve the opportunities of our children. Therefore, as has been said, we will agree to this deadline, especially in the sense of a rapid administrative reform and the same opportunities for training and care for our children. We will also, above all, ensure that the basic educational institution in the pre-school field will also be a priority in this House in the near future. The longer we move the reforms, the faster and the more we lose the opportunities of our children in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18851	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18874	Mr President. Unfortunately, Mrs State Secretary not present! High house! The kindergarten is an educational institution, which unfortunately has not yet been discussed in all the political groups. He's not just a care facility. That is why what we are discussing today is an extremely important issue for the future of Austria. The kindergarten is the central point. It is that area where we can use the most effective funds. I would just like to quote the Research Institute for Education in Cologne. This refers to an educational return of 7.5 percent – which is quite respectable in times like this – at 35 years. That is, education economy, education, all these areas point in the same direction. Mrs Steibl, a major correction: We do not demand the compulsory kindergarten from the first year of life, but we demand that parents be able to give their children to kindergarten. It's not an insignificant difference! If I listen to the debate this way, I have to say that the position of the BZÖ is very encouraging. I also hear from the Social Democrats that you are in principle in favour of this. Only once again do you not dare to stand firm for it. Even the more advanced parts of the ÖVP say that they are in favour of the whole, as Mrs State Secretary Marek did. However, it is cruel to the learned teacher when he sees the conjunctive II, which he has to interpret as a conjunctive irrealist here, because in reality, of course, you do nothing in this direction at all. You are refusing this necessary reform, and you are refusing to set deadlines today, although you know how central this matter would be for us. [[Abg. Donabauer: For you, yes!]] Just one example: The level of language has shown that for children who have language problems, these problems are reduced rapidly if they are in kindergarten for a year. If the children are in kindergarten for two years, the proportion of those children who need support will be halved. He's halving! And what is particularly pleasing: For those children who have the biggest problems, which are thus receiving 10 points or less for this level of language – there are 30 points – the proportion of children with funding needs is reduced from 46 percent to 18 percent. That would be exactly the targeted support that we urgently need in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We must therefore face this task, and we also receive support for it. The European Council set the so-called Barcelona targets in 2002 and 2007. This is not only about the university, it is also about setting national educational and educational goals, that is, exactly what we want. And I also have to say that you took first steps there. The compulsory kindergarten from the fifth year of life is quite a small step in the right direction. What we want is a qualitative discussion, a discussion about what children should be taught in kindergarten and how they should be taught. In order to say that quite clearly: We don't want to get the kindergarten out of school, but we want to give the children in kindergarten the opportunities they need. This concerns in particular the increasing number of children with language problems. Once again, the state of the language: We now have the problem in Austria that one third of those children who need support are children without a migrant background. Language problems can no longer be reduced to children from migrant families, so we really need to be aware of them and worry about them and see how we can improve them. How do we have to design the training of kindergarten teachers? Where do we need to start so that these children can be promoted in a targeted way? In this sense, I would like to ask you today to agree to this request for a deadline. We need a federal framework law for kindergartens immediately. Please, ask yourself this task! Support us on this point!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18947	The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Musiol, colleagues, the Family Committee on Reporting on Amendment No 598/A(E) by Members Mag. Musiol, colleagues in the Federal Principle Law on Childcare, a period of up to 28 years. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. [[18:12:05]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18986	I shall resume the negotiations on item 12 of the agenda. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19011	Mr President. High house! In the course of the debate on this law, Mrs Winter, in a certain recognition of the proceedings, has come out here and has accused us that environmental policy is not at all a matter of concern because we are in favour of a referral of matter back to the Committee on the Environment. I therefore make the following request – and explain the Genesis to you as well –: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Stadler concerning referral according to § 53 para. 6 GOG-NR In accordance with § 53 para. 6 GOG-NR following application “The National Council wants to decide to amend the government template on a federal law that amends the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Law on the Environment Senate (USG-Novelle 2009) (395 d.B.), as amended by the Committee's report 423, refer back to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for further consideration.’; This request, Mrs Winter, has been signed by your colleague, Norbert Hofer, three hours ago. Ah, now at once! Did you or did you talk to him? Mr Hofer is not concerned about environmental policy at all. Well, didn't you? - You just didn't know. You're not up to date. I know this happens to you every now and then, and you're supposed to have it. Stay with the Qurans and don't pour the BZÖ! There you are more competent! I'm telling you in every form: Today will be a nail sample. It will be the sample of nails whether the opposition to the first two-thirds majority needed by the coalition will provide this two-thirds majority or whether it is said that it is independent – for example, the agreement – of the importance of matter is not given a two-thirds agreement as long as the coalition, in particular the Austrian People's Party, does not invite the ministers to the investigation committee. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's the deal! Now the Greens are coming – this is an interesting development! – and say: No, we need a few posts for green functional and green activists from the environmental associations, so we cannot possibly refuse this matter. [[Calls to the Greens.]] – But of course! They're just about a few posts of the green environmental associations, and nothing else. You don't care about control. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Hardly is colleague Pilz in the hospital, even not here, the chaos breaks out with the greens. It is obvious that mushroom is the only one with you who knows each other, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You're right to beg the greens. The coalition could rely on it. For a few posts, the Greens are immediately ready to row the activities of the Investigation Committee far behind. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, if you don't care about the information about the Knittelfeld and the Army Defense Office, it's not my concern, but I know that it was your colleague Pilz's concern. So if that's not your concern, I'll tell you: Next week, the relevant cargo decisions should be taken within three committee days of the Committee of Inquiry. Faith You really think, in the light of this decision today, that the coalition is still thinking of taking these cargo decisions? – Then you are at the wrong event, like Mrs. Winter! Next point. The FPÖ says: Because the greens are going along, they have to go with them now. – That’s the “greatest” at all! This is for me even the greatest mystery. That's why Mrs. Winter came out and cursed the BZÖ. Because the Greens are going along, Mr Hofer withdrew his signature and split the original of the request right away. We have a copy of it, thank God! We have made it a habit to copy signatures made by the FPÖ just as it is not, as Mr Strache says. Mr. Strache today accused the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: Political agreements must be respected; the citizen has a right to them! However: The political agreements signed by the FPÖ do not last four hours; after four hours they are already obsolete. You made it faster. A signed agreement, a request signed by Parliamentary Court! So, and now I'm telling you what the consequence of this is: So today's the nail sample. We will see how the vote is going. If it goes as the two other opposition parties have announced, I will tell you in every way, then the investigation committee will be carried to grave. The calculation of the coalition has gone up. You don't need to knock with us anymore. You know, we're not here to create the political backbone for you or for you. [[towards Greens]] [[towards FPÖ]] That's what you're doing! We from BZÖ have one, we adhere to this agreement. We stick to what Mr Pilz has said in front of the running camera, namely: no more approval from now on! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Actually, that was his idea!]] – It was his idea in the committee, which is logged. Pilz itself has called the environment senate literally, this can be read in the Minutes, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. Easy to read! Peter Pilz has announced: No consent to two-thirds, until the coalition invites the ministers. What is the consequence of this? – Hardly fungus is in the hospital, the greens go for a few posts on the coalition line. I'll tell you when the next post is being negotiated – don't shake your head, Mr Oellinger! –: The next post will be Mr Pius Strobl. When it comes to the media authority, the two-thirds majority of the Austrian People's Party, the coalition with the support of the Greens, is just as likely because it concerns Mr Pius Strobl in the ORF. Ladies and gentlemen, You can't force control of this house. So just show that you are ready to prostitute immediately before the coalition.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19088	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19110	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks be to God, the whole policy is not about the Investigation Committee. Especially in economically difficult times, as politicians, we have the responsibility to pursue an efficient policy on matters. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This environment senate has proved its best in environmental processes. That is why it is also important that we extend the environmental Senate. He was temporary at the end of 2009. There is also a real need to extend it. This does not affect the path of the instance. It can continue to be persecuted as before. However, it has become necessary that we introduce a corresponding age limit for the judiciary, as the Environmental Senate is now unlimited. A judge may be up to 65 years old when ordering. At an older age, he will no longer be ordered. Furthermore, we will also be in line with the European Union's proposal. I believe that it has been a good service with the policy of matters. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19149	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19170	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The decision of the present Government template repeals the time-limitation of the Independent Environmental Senate, whose activities would be terminated by the end of 2009. In this way, this truly successful appeal body for procedures under the Environmental Impact Act will remain available to all interested parties in the future. The Environmental Senate shall always take action when an appeal against an EIA decision has been brought by the state government or a district administration authority. In the sense of harmonisation, we decide on an age limit at the Environmental Senate similar to that at the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, today a sensible adaptation and strengthening of the independent environment Senate will be decided. With regard to the constitutional provision in this legislative matter, I appeal to all colleagues, and here specifically to the BZÖ, not to pursue a policy of prevention at the expense of our people, but to act in accordance with the mandate of our electorate for the benefit of our Republic. Support This government template with your voice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19203	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19234	Mr President. Federal Minister! In short, on the content of this new law. Mr Stadler once again spoke in a good way about the possibility of party-political advantages. This is about the fact that the Environmental Senate, which now had a temporary legal regime, can be extended beyond the end of the year. [[Abg. May. Stadler: And the Greens have nothing to do with this!]] The independent judges appointed there are not appointed by parties but are appointed on the proposal of the Federal Government. This has been a very important legal body in the environmental field, so, I believe, no one of us has disputed content – that has not even done his own group – that this extension or permanent setting is useful. Then we come to the proceedings in the investigation committee. Over the last few days, Mr Pilz has repeatedly made it clear again and again that there has been a statement by the Greens in a concrete matter, namely the Services Act, that the negotiations are being stopped. I was also present in the last committee, I also heard the press statements, I looked at the APA – you will certainly have done so too, Mr Stadler – and there is an explicit statement that the proceedings in the committee of inquiry in the political groups – including in your own, you have also said that in the committee – will be discussed and the further procedure should be agreed. I am also in favour of this, and this is also addressed to Mr Cap and to Mr Head. If the government parties believe that the current procedure in the investigative committee – listening to it is difficult – can lead to the suspected handling of the investigation committee as a minority law, to which there has been a clear agreement, that a public announcement by the government parties takes place, then there will be clear and severe consequences of the opposition. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] That's what we're talking about. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can't force us to anything!]] If Mr Stadler now believes that this is no longer necessary, this is also his matter. Only one thing I'm saying: There has been a committee negotiation in this matter, and there has been a vote in the committee on this matter. As the FPÖ has agreed, the Greens have also agreed, and your colleague, environmental spokesperson, felt that it is necessary in terms of content. We also made it clear at that time that we should agree on a time when these consequences will be enforced, and that is what we stand for. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The whole opposition was talking!]] If you go from the BZÖ, Mr Stadler, to the FPÖ – we have now researched it when it came – and the FPÖ declare that the Greens have already agreed and there is almost an accredited procedure, and then go with the paper to sign where you are deliberately distributing false reports in the opposition, then this will be a difficult cooperation. [[Call the SPÖ:Hear! Listen!]] I therefore think it is right that the FPÖ has said that it is not in this matter before it is agreed that there is a clear procedure for the opposition, which we hope will come to tomorrow and which the government parties will then be able to take up, that this will be carried out until the time when it will be proclaimed and that it will last. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You don't have to talk to us anymore! End of the passage!]] It's not quite easy with you, Mr Stadler, we know that too. [[Abg. May. Stadler: End of the announcement! Done!]] – “End of the passage” is okay. If the BZÖ considers that there is no need for a common procedure of the opposition, we will also take note of that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Done!]] We will not be blackmailed by you or the government parties, and in this form we believe that consent to the law is necessary to make sense. That is why we will vote in favour of this two-thirds matter today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19359	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Magn. Stadler to refer the subject matter back to the Environment Committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 395 of the supplements. The draft law contains amendments to the Federal Constitutional Act. I therefore note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. [[18:26:08]] 13. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (396, p._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Environmental Information Act (424, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19432	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. I call on the rapporteur, Mrs Bayr, to present a pressurised correction to point 13. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19453	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you of the following print error correction to the Committee's report 424 of the supplements: The amendment mentioned in the Committee's report was adopted by Mr Ing. Hermann Schultesand Petra Bayrund not by Deputies Ing. Hermann Schultesund Mag. Christiane Brunner. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19487	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's Party
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19511	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We will not agree with this draft, and I can also explain why it will be the case. Many tons of hazardous waste are imported into Austria year after year, and the major problem is that the municipalities, the mayors, are usually not informed whether hazardous waste is processed in their municipality. Thus, under the cover of data protection, it continues to be kept secret where these hazardous wastes are processed. We also have hazardous wastes with infectious and carcinogenic properties in these approved imports, we have chronic toxic wastes that are imported, asbestos wastes, solvent wastes, plant protection products and pharmaceutical wastes. Some figures from the first half of 2007, because I asked a question at the time: There were, for example, 95 tons of dust, ash and pitches from melting processes, 144 tons of oil-polluted soils, 28.7 tons of pharmaceutical waste, 1 228 tons of solvent halogens and 13.85 tons of medical waste. Now, of course, we understand that one does not want to run panic checks and not to make public the way in which the waste is processed in Austria, because it also needs to be underlined that the plants are very, very cautious about these hazardous wastes. We believe, however, that at least the mayors, who are also subject to official secrecy in many other areas, should be very well informed of the hazardous waste being processed in their community. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am well aware of the fact that, of course, such opposition requests are not ad hocly decided by the government parties in the course of a plenary session. However, I very much ask you to look at this very carefully and to support your own mayor – you have many mayors in your ranks.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19575	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19628	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19651	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Transparency and information for the general public are important keywords, especially when important decisions are to be made that require data that can be measured. In the political debate in the past, for example, in agriculture a year ago, we had the debate about the transparency of EU agricultural payments. And it was not easy for us farmers to hold this discussion, but, in retrospect, it was not bad to provide information to the general public here, who would receive EU agricultural funds for what. Here, too, you can quickly get an overview of which further processing company or export company relates money from the EU agricultural sector. And I think it has certainly done a good educational work. In the social field, where the transfer account is now being discussed, we have a similar opportunity to create more transparency. I think that would also contribute to verifying the reliability of some transfer payments. In the environmental field, the same thing is now thought of. With an online database to be available from 2010 onwards, everyone can quickly get an overview of how and how operating facilities work in the neighborhood when environmental data are available. The data will be updated annually and will also serve the authorities and decision-makers at all levels, as well as the mayors and municipal councils as local authorities responsible for information. This pollutant release and shipment register shall record more than 86 pollutants. I think it will be the case that this transparency will help to improve the environmental performance of establishments. In this context, particular importance will also be attached to the protection of informants. An operator shall not punish farmers if they report infringements and irregularities in this area to the competent authorities. This amendment to the Environmental Information Act will create a further step towards improving transparency in this important and sensitive area.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19697	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19719	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The PRTR is a register available on the Internet that informs about the emissions of pollutants and the shipment of waste from businesses. For certain industries, there is a PRTR reporting obligation, which I think is very good. In order to enable the public to access the existing information easily, unbureaucraticly and free of charge, the extension or addition of the Environmental Information Act is essential. Although this register does not prevent pollution, it is likely that a significant reduction in pollution values will be expected. At the same time, this information is intended to provide comparative data to decision-makers and facilitate environmental decisions. National data are reviewed and transmitted to the EU Commission for publication, which in turn means that a European comparison with regard to pollutant emissions, waste shipments, releases from diffuse sources and the like can be produced free of charge at any time. Special attention shall also be paid to the protection of informants, which workers, who show concrete evidence of a breach of the European PRTR accompanying regulation, protect against the operator. At the same time, informants who indicate a specific infringement to a competent authority may not be punished, persecuted or harassed by it. Such a procedure would certainly be counterproductive and would contribute to veiling tactics. In this context, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19792	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Tadler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19816	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As early as 2003, the Republic of Austria signed the Protocol on the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register. That's the 8th. ==References== What's this about? – Public access to data on pollutant emissions and waste from the facilities is to be improved. Not that such data would not already be collected – a pollutant emission register already exists – but the present bill is used to further develop this register. Another important point, ladies and gentlemen, which is regulated by this novelle, is, as we have already heard, the protection of informants for workers who supply the operator to the knife, which threatens a juicy punishment; up to €14 500 in the repeat case. The Minister responsible is you, Mr Umweltminister, who, in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs, must take care of the establishment of this register. When the environmental and economic sectors meet, I always find it quite exciting, because a interaction is often under a conflict of interest. However, since these are two ÖVP resorts, I believe that in the end, the economy will win over ecology, as always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19856	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19877	Mr President. Minister for Agriculture! High house! The environmental information law deals with the need for businesses to transmit data, data on pollutant emissions and also on waste. We welcome the fact that this law will also provide more information on environmental impacts for neighbouring people and will simply provide more transparency in terms of environmental impacts. So I say it right now: We Greens will agree, but we do not entirely agree with it, but very critically, because we have some comments to make. I would also like to say that we are not going to accept the amendment, which I announced a bit quickly at the previous item on the agenda, because of its short-term nature. As said, consent to this law, but critical. We have also expressed our criticism in the Committee. In the meantime, a little bit has been explained, so there will be our approval. However, our criticism remains true as to what is so to speak, when it comes to not going to EU level. Our Environmental Information Act does not require more establishments or installations to transmit data than it does in the EU Regulation, although the Regulation would explicitly provide that Member States could do more here. But we know that: Unfortunately, Austria does not do more than is required by the EU. That is why this is a critical point for us. Unfortunately, only 250 installations in Austria will be covered by this Environmental Information Act. It is very critical to see that data transmitted must be sent to Brussels almost 18 months after the year of operation and only be published 21 months later. Data from 2007 are only available in October 2009. That's, I think, a little late for proper environmental information. What we generally find positive is that the data are collected in the public register at the Umweltbundesamt in aggregated form. To this end, we had the question: Can you actually see where that comes from? Is that also justifiably presented? – From our point of view, this is the case now. However, where there is a question mark behind it is: How meaningful or how wobbly are these data when they come from the companies themselves? Summary: Green environmental information would look different, would involve more steps, but it is a positive step in the right direction. I think it is precisely in times when we are increasingly struggling with environmental impacts that people need to be better informed. But it is quite clear that there is much more to be done here. I'll find you again. Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19920	Now I give Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19944	Mr President. High house! I wanted to say once again to the previous vote that I thank you for having adopted the Environmental Senate Act. The consequence of today's non-decision or a delay would have been that the Environmental Senate would have stopped having a legal basis. This would be a shame because the Environmental Senate – we discussed it before – is recognized as a non-wisdom institution of second instance in the EIA procedure. If we had not adopted the law today and had achieved an extension of the same environmental Senate, all proceedings would have had to go to the Administrative Court. The big difference is: The Environmental Senate decides in the case that the Administrative Court cannot decide in the case and refers back to the first instance. That is to say, an EIA procedure at national level would be referred to the Environmental Senate, to the second instance. If there is no such thing, it goes to the Administrative Court, and because it is not allowed to decide, it goes back to the first instance, to the EIA authorities country. That would be crazy. Therefore, it was important that you have agreed to this law and extended the Environmental Senate, because it is simply a recognized institution and is also absolutely necessary in the matter and that a non-decision would only have meant unnecessary delays in many procedures. That was absolutely right. To this Environmental Information Act: There is the UN/ECE PRTR Protocol to the Århus Convention – a tongue breaker – which means nothing more than that the majority of this Protocol should be applied directly to the EU Member States. What cannot be regulated at EU level is the establishment of, as has already been quoted, a national pollutant release and shipment register, a so-called national PRTR, and thus a better protection of information. If there is someone who shows maladministration, then this person should have a proper protection. I can tell you that this European pollutant release and shipment register was published on 9. November this year has gone online. The Austrian Register will follow at the beginning of 2010. It will be accessible on www.prtr.at. It means that the data will be updated annually. 250 such facilities shall report. It is important that the public is better informed about the pollution emissions of plants, which are emitted at a site of an plant, for example, in the NOx, dust or in the case of water pollutants. This can be a thermal power plant, a wastewater treatment plant and much more. This is a point towards greater transparency, citizens' participation – as it is repeatedly called for – in order to move forward in the sense of efficient environmental and climate protection. – Therefore, thank you for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19990	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20011	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The existing Environmental Information Act is due to the international obligations of Austria with the signing of the Protocol on pollutant release and shipment registers on 21. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== In order to be able to ratify the Protocol at the first meeting of the Contracting Parties in the first half of 2010, we need to prepare the necessary implementing measures with this amendment today. As a central point, the novel provides for the establishment of a national pollutant release and shipment register, in short PRTR. I am convinced that this national register will significantly improve public access to data on pollutant emissions and waste shipments from facilities. That's a big advantage. This pollutant register will provide the public with the opportunity to easily and quickly inform themselves about the environmental data of a farm, for example from the neighborhood. The register covers the releases and transfers of at least 86 pollutants, such as greenhouse gases, ozone-degrading substances, heavy metals and certain carcinogenic substances. In the end, this transparency should also help companies to improve their environmental performance. That will benefit all of us again. All in all, this is a very positive matter. In order to be able to modernise this improved environmental information law together with the coalition partner, we have also agreed that the principle of consulting instead of punishment is applied in a reasonable manner for operators. After we were hopefully able in the last Transport Committee to eliminate the criticism of the opposition that there is too little transparency in the processing of hazardous waste, I hope the approval of all the parliamentary parties to this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20054	Next speaker: Mr Steier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20075	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speakers have already said and mentioned, with the amendment of the Environmental Information Act, we have established a national pollutant release and shipment register – in short: national PRTR. This is intended to improve public access to data on pollutant emissions and waste shipments from farms under the heading of pollutants in the neighborhood. A similar register has so far existed in the form of the European pollutant emission register, in short EPER. On the homepage of the Federal Environment Agency you can find which industrial facilities exist in the area and which pollutants are released from them in air and water. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it says: The National PRTR is a further development of the EPER. Additional operational activities and additional pollutants, the release into the soil, but also pollutants from sources such as agriculture, transport and households are covered and available. From the conception, the national PRTR is thus closer to the requirement of an overall description. It is intended to be available online in 2010 and is networked with the European pollutant release and shipment register. This is fed on the basis of the European PRTR Regulation 2006 with relevant data from industrial enterprises of the 27 European Member States. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, this means more information, the collection of other industries and the simple and direct availability of these products. to support the public in their right to free access to comprehensive environmental information. More transparency also leads to better environmental performance of businesses in the last episode. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20117	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. On the basis of a short-term request for a separate vote, I refer to § 65 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, votes on agenda item 13. These votes will be taken after the agenda item 14 has been completed. [[18:50:12]] 14. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (316, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Health and Hospital Care Act (GuKG-Novelle 2009) (403 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20154	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. Reporting is not required. Mrs Oberhauser spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20181	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment to the Health and Hospital Care Act to be decided here today includes some improvements in the field of both the quality of training and the field of activity of care providers in hospitals. It is taken into account that the job descriptions are constantly developing and that it is especially so that the caregivers have done a lot more with their already excellent activity than the law has allowed. We decided unanimously in the Health Committee to say: Yes, we are in favour of more caregivers being allowed to do, but only if the training is adapted accordingly! Another change in this health and health care law, which has a very long history – this template has already been introduced in Andrea Kdolsky’s last GP and is now finalized by Minister Stöger – is that there will be a possibility for people working in disability care facilities to participate in the basic module of basic care, i.e. to complete this and thus bring a little more normality into their daily lives in the disabled’s facilities. Let me end with a quote from Caritas President Küberl, which – as I mean – describes very well what we have succeeded here. Caritas President Küberl says in an issue that we have created a small step for the legislator, but a big step towards more normality in the living and living rooms of people with disabilities. President Küberl says that a real breakthrough has been achieved and this new regulation brings people with disabilities more quality of life. In this sense, I am pleased that it is unanimous, and I am also grateful to the Ministry for Good Pre-work.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20220	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20242	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I mean, only the one who sees with the heart sees right. I think this novelle looks right. I mean, this law is a classic law where one can say that one puts legal texts behind man and not before man. We have managed to do something for the disabled that draws closer to daily reality. In a small disabled community, it is often not possible for a sister to be there. It is often necessary to let someone grow up in simple nursing activities. As a politician, we cannot allow it to be said constantly: The law and various demarcations are more important than what the disabled need and experience in their daily lives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I was actually very surprised that such a logical step in terms of the possibility of activities in disabled communities, that the people there may be trained, and that because of every small thing, one does not have to get extremely qualified staff, has found such a positive response, because I thought that is actually a matter of course. We are making laws for citizens and not vice versa. On the other hand, of course, I understand the concerns of qualified care staff, which says: Where is the quality? And where's the demarcation? I think we've had a good walk here. I see from the response of those concerned that both sides can live with it. We don't want a carpenter playing nurse, on the other hand, it's useless to say: We need a qualified care staff for a minimum activity! - This should come every time. Until the activity is completed, the patient probably no longer needs it. For me, the heart and reason are at the same time. This should accompany us in all these health policies. I see it every day, how difficult the demarcation of law is: The doctor can do this, the sister is allowed to do it, the caregiver is allowed to do it!, and in the end it is documented that no one will do it eventually. In a second part of the law, we have also expanded the competence of the care worker. Now, as a doctor, I'm telling you: This is urgently necessary, because it is a sense of ambiguity, we all get older on average and we will need more care services. These Schrebergärten: He may, he may, he may, we cannot afford to do so financially. Secondly, Neither should we afford to waste time, because time costs money. The care should arrive at the citizen and should not be simmered in the documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20300	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20321	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Health and Sickness care law is also supported by us because we welcome the fact that there is a creation of federal uniform regulations and also because it is above all an appreciation for the care workers. What we particularly like is also the training qualifications, which must be limited to the extent that even the representatives of the coalition parties in the committee have already said that this must be evaluated. That means that there is probably still a bit of a need for improvement here. We all know – you know that as well as I do – that the care professions are professions of the future and that in the future we will need a lot more, much more than we have now. That's where a shortage of care professions is very likely. For example, if you look at the AMS homepage, you will see that in very few federal states there are even courses that offer training in this field. At the AMS Burgenland, for example, next year there will be a single course for home help in Jennersdorf. There's nothing to care for. There is already evidence that we urgently need a training offensive, especially in the care sector, and we also need opportunities for training. We welcome the fact that this is set out, but we also want opportunities for further education and training to be given. One point should not be forgotten, namely that there are a lot of women working in the care sector. It should be taken into account that training opportunities, training opportunities are designed in such a way that women also have the opportunity to participate, perhaps in an optimal way in addition to a family. We say: It is a step in the right direction, so we will agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20361	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20382	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As suggested by my previous speakers, these new laws include adjustments and regulations, which also meet the requirements of the practical care and care routine. These are adjustments and regulations that we too will agree with, because they have become urgently necessary. You know that in 2004 it was decided for the first time to harmonise the social care professions in this Parliament, then ratified by all the federal states in 2007, and here the right conditions were created for the care activities, in particular the caregivers. We also very much welcome the fact that those who work in the field of disability work are now able and able to do certain things in basic care, but that all must make qualified training mandatory so that quality is guaranteed. As I said, we are giving this law our approval because it is professionally correct because it corresponds to practical circumstances. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] However, I would also like to take this debate on the occasion of the fact that there are still no sustainable answers to the fact that we will have more life available and therefore also need more caregivers, will be given to more care staff during this period. We are still missing an overall concept of care, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I know it's not immediate. Its area is located in the area of the Social Ministry. Just before elections is always cried out: We have a nursing emergency, we need so and so many caregivers!, and after the elections is again absolute peace. We must not close our eyes to the fact that we still have an blatant lack of nursing staff, and we must not rest on saying that we have a lot of foreign professionals, that will already work somehow. Just limiting oneself to it would be irrational for the future. Therefore, we also propose to create more new offers for young people, especially in the health sector, in the care sector there are jobs. It always says that this area contains a lot of opportunities for the future especially for young people. And that young people are motivated is always seen in voluntary activities, in voluntary activities, in the voluntary social year, where young people want to be professionally oriented and oriented. Even for the voluntary social year, the miserable question of entitlement to family allowances is still not settled. We are concerned that this year is also accepted as a professional orientation year. Other countries, especially Switzerland, show us what new opportunities there are, that you can be innovative, that you can allow new ideas, such as a teaching profession in the field of care and care. This would also be a good link here in Austria between the care worker and the professionally qualified health and care staff. Therefore, I make a corresponding request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The discussion about a teaching profession has been in progress for a long time. There are also organisations such as the Volkshilfe or the umbrella association of the Home Leaders which are absolutely positive about this training. I think we must be aware: We need an Austrian solution, we need a solution in which we allow new ones and not only strengthen the proven ones, and we also need job opportunities for young people, but especially for the future we need reliability and security in the care and care, regardless of the social environment and the social situation! I would therefore ask you to give your consent to our motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20458	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20520	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20541	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, it is a very exciting law, as Rasinger says, a kind of grat migration and therefore a critical law, yet under the rule a necessary law. Now, when caregivers and caregivers are hired or transferred skills previously reserved for qualified staff, the sense of coping with everyday care and care makes sense. It also makes sense that the legislator has thought of training, of control, of driving supervision, of supervision. Nevertheless, it will be a difficult phase for the persons concerned, for if you no longer have training – and this will not be done in a few years – then you will be faced with many decisions in everyday life: Can I, can't I? I'm asking someone, don't I ask? – One cannot define such a thing in the law, but an evaluation may help to counter it in time. It is only striking that, in addition to training, a new professional access for care workers was also envisaged or found, namely at middle and higher vocational schools. I have to ask the question now whether something has changed. I read a clear and clear veto from the Federal Ministry of Finance here that it could not agree to this law because it required a consultation mechanism. And then it'll be exciting, because if this law doesn't come into force, then what is it? Will it be cheaper for the Minister of Finance? I say: No, no, no, And that's what we should look at. What I would like to cut: If you make exciting, critical laws so to speak, you have to ask yourself: What is the background? And the background is still that there is a need for care, that there are problems in financing care – both concepts that are not sent in politics, which one does not like to hear, which one does not like to express. The Federal Government has de facto set up in a small area of care and care, the 24-hour care that God is grateful to some measures that facilitate people this period physically, psychologically, financially half-way. There have been measures, they are okay. However, only 3 to 4 percent of all caregivers are affected. What about the other 97 percent? What about them? In fact, nothing has happened here. There is a lack of care professions, which was suggested. Finland has a medical density similar to Austria, but in the field of caregivers the double, some Scandinavian states the triple offer. Larger hospitals – you also have to note federalism – “produce” only for their own needs, because the other is too expensive for them. There's no interregional thinking. There is no cross-regional planning. I know everything's laborious, like a saw of thick boards, you say. Small steps must be taken. But I wonder, Should we not even have the courage in the government to think at least of a big step? Caring, caring women informally do a job worth €3 billion. This is all the federal and national money that is put in the care. Something has to happen, and I would ask you, Minister, not to be afraid of big steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20598	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20620	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. Also at this later hour, I think I can explain that this law is a direction because we are looking for practical solutions in the field of care. We are looking for solutions for people in care, we are also looking for solutions for training opportunities that work in everyday life. I think we're taking a new step. We have always had structural criteria in the quality of the health professions, and we are now taking the next step, namely to improve the quality of results. fen. We have started the attempt to take a first step in this regard in the field of care and also to gain experience. I think that's a good law. However, we must be very careful to ensure that the quality remains secure and remains in the future. We need practical solutions. It is about people, it is about ensuring the need for care, and it is about the fact that women in particular have a chance to take advantage of training opportunities and to have professions in which a qualification is also provided and which can also be reached. I would like to thank the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for their willingness to cooperate. There has been an agreement, and I like it because I am deeply convinced that agreement in health policy is a good way to implement things. A good step for the people in need of care.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20659	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20680	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! This amendment to the Health and Care Act takes a further step in the quality of the care sector, of health care. This amendment adapts the scope of care assistance to the harmonised regulations of the social professions, to the newly created rules relating to 24-hour care and, as has been mentioned more often, to the current requirements of the practical and daily care everyday. In order to meet the growing needs of care assistance, training and training are needed again and again. This legal training obligation of 40 hours within five years made a contribution to quality assurance in care assistance. By adapting to Community law, professional qualifications acquired in third countries are more widely recognized for the elevated service of qualified nurses and nurses. This change also creates a greater level of safety for both the care staff and the caregivers concerned. The extended access to the training module, the supported basic training for the care of disabled persons will take another step in raising quality in care. Good care assistance requires continuous training and training in all areas of care. The best medical care, ladies and gentlemen, needs the best care and the best care assistance to be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20712	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20733	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this GKG-Novelle is to adapt the field of care assistance to newly created regulations, such as the 24-hour care and the current requirements of day care, including group care in the area of disabled people. On the one hand, it is about supervision and control and the establishment of a training obligation in the field of care assistance. Of course, the up-to-date health and health care service is responsible for the professional implementation of care measures, but also under supervision. The aim is to make it possible to make a more flexible use of the professional image in question – that is the desire of the institutions, including the organisations active in these areas, especially in the mobile sector – without – and this has to be said – reducing the high quality standard. Care providers are currently only able to carry out activities under the supervision of qualified staff or doctors. In my opinion, a monitoring of certain conditions at regular intervals is more practical and is created with this novelle. What are these conditions and these conditions? – First, the corresponding health status of the person to be cared for. Secondly, an accompanying check to be carried out exclusively in writing and to be documented; furthermore, a written care plan by the elevated service; and a service relationship is, of course, also a prerequisite. The training obligation is very short: Within five years, 40 hours of training on the latest developments in care and a deepening of the knowledge and skills acquired in training should be completed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, overall simplification and facilitation in the practice of care assistance, especially in the interests of the people concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20775	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20797	Mr President. Minister! Finally, a law that you can accept with good conscience without reservation. The novelle on the Health and Hospital Care Act that we are now discussing is clearly a breakthrough in the care of people with disabilities. Until now, it was true that the people who worked in hospital care were almost a foot in the criminal. In reality, it will probably not change much – that is to say, honestly – because the people who are now already caring for the sick under the guidance and control of a qualified care service do so without legal certainty and without legal control. Today's law clearly creates legal certainty here. It is reasonable and viable to take this decision. In this context, it must also be said that people who work for others for needy fellow human beings often do so under a real burden. They put their own needs behind them. This fact cannot be thanked high enough. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to urge one more thing to be critical: It is in no way apparent on the horizon of health reform an overall concept for care. We now have a small mosaic stone in the big matter with this law, but there is no overall concept of care. We completely hide the demographic problems of the future, namely that we are getting older. We have only one or other expert draft, but no concrete legal basis, whatever. As I said, a small step in the right direction we like to take.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20845	Mr Maij-Weggen (PPE). — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20866	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As one who spends his daily work with this GuKG, I would like to begin by thanking all the political groups that this new law has taken a real step again, towards more practical proximity and security of quality in care, which of course we especially appreciate. I share almost all my previous speakers' views on the question of additional training opportunities for qualified professionals. We're actually missing the qualified care staff. It is all the more important that we do not devalue the activities of the qualified care staff now by upgrading the activities of the care providers, but, as it were, we create realistic access to the daily conditions that are taking place in the mobile home care and in care as a whole. We are also relatively close to reality in the field of disability – it has already been addressed. I am glad that with this novice of the GuKG, as I said, we are creating more legal certainty for a practical care which is currently being organized and handled in Austria, I believe. What we certainly need to gain more people for this profession is to apply the care profession positively, especially by providing additional incentives for the care staff. Because only with thanks alone will we motivate few to accept this profession, in the future actually this vocation. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have created a little more safety and quality for care in the future, especially with this expansion of competence of care providers.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20901	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 403 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. [[Call the ÖVP – towards FPÖ, whose Members do not rise from their seats at first –: vote unanimously! We said unanimously!]] [[Abg. The remaining members of the FPÖ, as well as the subsequent members of the FPÖ, stand up for the vote.]] [[Demonstrative applause and bravado with the ÖVP.]] – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the teaching profession for care and care. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. [[19:21:24]] Vote on agenda item 13
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20957	We are now moving to the vote on the draft law in 424 of the Supplements, agenda item 13. Mr Schultes, Mr Bayr, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote on the amendment just mentioned. Therefore, I will initially vote on the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, in line with the request for a separate vote. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Where is the Westenthaler again? Look at football?]] [[Abg. Riepl: Westenthaler is missing! Already at the football court?]] [[Call the SPÖ:... metro ride!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Is he on the road? Oh, you!]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: And where is the Lord Pendl?]] We shall come to the separate vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Schultes, Mr Bayr, colleagues on Z 1 § 9b para. 2. Whoever joins this amendment, I would like to ask for a sign in this regard. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. - That's the majority. That's why it's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on the introduction of a reporting obligation in the event of storage or further processing of hazardous waste. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. [[19:23:41]] 15. Point report of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (237 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas (404 d.b.) 16. On behalf of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on the preparation of a case management study at Austrian hospitals and rehabilitation facilities (405 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21067	We come to points 15 and 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21094	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Being a minister of health and having to implement a health reform is not an easy task, simply because it is necessary to agree with the national leaders and other stakeholders in order to bring about a health reform. I have already said that the opposition is very well prepared to provide the necessary two-thirds majority when it comes to introducing a health reform, but the decisions are actually taken elsewhere, namely in the party boards, where the representatives of the countries and the national leaders are also represented. Therefore, it is a very essential point in the context of a reform to recognise that many services in Austria are passing through the needs and are also costing a lot of money. For example, many bedlinen beds, which are very expensive, are occupied with people in need of care, and that is because there is no suitable care for these people in need of care. Many stay in the hospital only because you don't know at home how to really care for the caregivers. There are very good examples – best practice examples, as this means now – across Austria. I call a rehabilitation facility in Klosterneuburg, which has set up an exercise apartment. There are cross-connected patients, patients with skull-brained trauma, with burns and so on, and there the family have the opportunity to learn how to deal with the patients, with the persons to be cared for, the persons to be cared for at home. All of this is not so easy when you are suddenly confronted with it as a family, because it is all completely new. How can I best attack and move my family if he has to move out of the wheelchair into the bathtub? How can I help when a catheter is set? What do I have to pay attention to while sitting in the wheelchair so that there is no decubitus? There you can learn all these things in the practice apartment, and there are also flying teams who are on the go and then show at home or teach relatives how to care for the person to be cared for even in their own four walls. That, ladies and gentlemen, is case management! I think the taxpayer would save a lot of money if we were to implement this case management across Austria. There are only winners: Winner is the patient who is best cared for, winner is the family member who learns how to care for the family member, the friend, the acquaintance best at home, and winner is the public hand that saves a lot of money if to care for persons who do not land in acute beds. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore ask you very much, even if today you will not support the case management request to consider how this really important measure can be implemented throughout Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21143	Mr Spindelberger came to speak as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21164	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the time available, I would like to refer both to item 15 and to item 16 on the agenda, i.e. on the one hand, to the amendment of the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas and on the other, to the preparation of a study on a case management which Mr Hofer has just made. In the Federal Law on the Health and Health Organizations to be adopted today, it is now made clear in connection with the tasks of the Ethics Commission that in the future, care studies as well as new care concepts and methods should also be assessed in ethical terms. In addition, other key points are accompanied by this decision-making, such as the new composition of the Ethics Commission and the legal separation between doctors and dentists. In the future, either a device for oral, jaw and facial surgery or a care by consiliar doctors of oral, jaw and facial surgery must be provided in primary hospitals as required. It must also be clarified that the conduct of independent dental ambulatories has to be carried out by a specialist in oral, jaw and facial surgery or a professional dentist depending on the range of services. In my opinion, what is also important is to change the so-called medical letter into a letter of dismissal. – It does not sound quite amissing, but it is not, because with the change of nature, the current medical and nursing content, such as diagnosis, treatment course or medication, is extended by recommendations or arrangements for further care of the patients concerned, such as physiotherapy, healing massages or dental therapy. I think this is good and for the benefit of the countless affected patients. Now, very briefly, on the request in item 16 of the agenda, Mr Hofer calls for a feasibility study for the realization of a comprehensive case management in Austrian health care. We have said in the Health Committee that we are currently rejecting this because there are already numerous measures to improve seam management in the existing Article 15a agreements with those countries that are also in agreement. – That was the reason why we have rejected this right now.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21201	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21223	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! This law, in turn, deals with adaptations to EU requirements, including adaptations to professional law, which are necessary, particularly in the field of: the dentist, the child- and youth-psychiatry, and also for a clear clarification that the Ethics Commission will be activated and will accompany this if care research projects are to be implemented or addressed. In principle, we have no objections. We will vote in favour of this new law. In this context, however, I would like to say critically that the necessary legal steps to implement the Austrian structural plan – namely the 2006 Austrian structural plan – are still missing. While countries have continued to develop regional structural plans in the country, the necessary legal instruments for implementation are missing. That is why I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to act and not to be negligent, but to give the countries the necessary instruments. I feel that we are making a lot of adjustments in the Health Committee, which are necessary, but the big steps are simply not being taken. The big steps will only be taken when it comes to shooting money in millions, but the cost reduction in the system, which is always being spoken of, ultimately tends to tend, and you really don't hear anything from it. That is why I would like to ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to finally take great steps towards a sustainable health reform, which, above all, will consider and discuss the merger of 22 social security bodies. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] This is not going from today to tomorrow, but it is also necessary to take different steps to make savings in the system and to bring the money where the patients need it. In the area mentioned by Mr Hofer in his request, which concerns the inadequate case management, which simply causes so many friction losses at the interfaces between hospital and care facilities, not only financial ones, but also as regards patients, it would be time to do something. We will therefore naturally support this request for a study of a case management. There is also no uniform performance catalogue with uniform performance descriptions or a federal fee regulation – even things that would be urgently necessary. In the field of precautionary measures: Prevention and prevention is a major concern for all of us, and thus the strengthening of the patient's own responsibility, the patient. There is more or less stagnation, and we really are always saving ourselves by making smaller or larger adjustments and always telling each other that our good system needs to be preserved and, hopefully, nothing will happen. Therefore, Minister of State: Adjustments are necessary, we will, of course, give this today our consent, but please also finally meet the great challenges!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21286	The next item is the speech by Mr Donabauer. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21307	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, one conclusion: If we decide such essential and important laws for the whole system, for the whole society, such as the Health and Hospital Care Act – I do not blame anyone – then a party must already know what it wants. A vote that takes place in such a way that one stands up and follows the next shows no seriousness! We have to do with a very important, basic matter, which is really also about improving the overall system, which is not bad, because nothing is so good that it could not be even better tomorrow. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Except Mr. Donabauer!]] I think we all have reason to show each other the really productive development of the last few years and decades. However, since society is changing, we have become aware of the demographic factor and have also changed the flow of money, constantly adapting. Personally, I believe that a number of good legislative measures have been taken. In total, however, I think that the thinking of claims should not be further developed, but rather the self-responsibilities must be strengthened, because only then can we finally continue to the satisfaction of the citizens of all these policies. [[Abg. Head: That's it!]] As regards structural issues, the structural plans are as follows: Of course, this is a subject that is constantly being called into question, but Vice-Chancellor Sepp Pröll gave a remarkable speech a few weeks ago, in which he said, among other things, that the problem is not the quality, but the problem is a conflict of interest and the cash flow. If today hundreds of money flows flow until anything can be served, then you have to think about it, and that is easy to say, but hard made because there are, of course, also contacts of interest. You have to see that very clearly. As to the Federal Act, which amends the Health and Health Organization Act, I have already said a lot about my previous speakers. It is simply a matter of strengthening the professional competence of the doctor that the doctor's letter – now the letter of dismissal – is re-examination, where the patient can decide. I take bonds from Erwin Rasinger, a really tried and practice-related doctor, who thinks the doctor's or dismissal letter has a second problem: Sometimes he's such a legend that the doctor can't do much with it. Overall, it is intended to be somewhat standardised and focused on the important areas of how treatment should continue, which medications are finally defined. There are different applications. I think that there is still a need for action. What distinguishes this law in a special way is that it makes clear regulations and that it does not cost the countries, cities and communities any money. This law also includes, for example, that, when moving from one hospital to another, costs do not fall as previously in both hospitals, but only more in the last hospital – in itself a logical but still unexplained measure, which is now clarified. That is why I believe that this matter is really well represented in this way. In the case of new care concepts, the Ethics Commission – which is already there and which works well – has to be activated. Study on Case Management: That is a reasonable approach, but, I think, it makes no sense to ask the Minister. That's a question of Article-15a agreements, you need to talk to the owners. Commented on the experience: Yes, it is true that a lot of people will be released from the hospital and will not have a home or a care collection structure at home. That's where we need to create facilities. There are already care facilities in abundance on site, which make the job very good, but overall we are enormously required there. The meaning of this request – which we unfortunately cannot agree with because it is not properly aligned in content – is a reasonable approach to reducing the cots and creating nursing beds, not in hospitals, but in connected facilities. We will continue to discuss this and, of course, in due course realize it with the countries in the same way. I think we're on the road all in all, but we still have a lot to do. At the end of the day, it's not about couleur, it's always about people. It is not about the institution, it is about the sensitivity to the appreciation of the citizens, and we are all invited and invited to give the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21359	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21381	Mr President. High house! This federal law ends an injustice, namely the injustice of having to pay the care contribution twice if you have come from one hospital to another. I think this is an important step towards creating more justice in the health system. A second important step: integrated supply. This is recognized by the fact that we create a letter of dismissal and no longer a doctor's letter. It is about making integrated supply systems better possible. These are important steps that will make it possible to better set up the networks of health, the networks of care, and that these networks also have the necessary tools. The redesign of the Ethics Commissions is another necessary step, where we are now also taking into account the aspect of taking gender into account. We are following the position that women's needs are also perceived more than before. To this end, a balanced relationship between men and women should be laid down in the Ethics Commissions. In addition, it is also intended to ensure that the Ethics Commissions also need to make possible partialities public. This will contribute to greater transparency. I believe that this is another important step towards improving the integrated care of our people.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21423	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Karlsböck. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21444	Mr President. Minister! I would like to come to a partial aspect of this law, which has not yet been fully respected. This is § 27a Para. 6. the patient compensation and the compensation issues in particular. I have found the relevant law passage, and I may quote it immediately: “In the performance practice of the countries in the field of patient compensation, several federal states take the view that the current KAKuG text does not allow compensation in cases where a liability of the lawyer is clearly not given (e.g. fateful procedures, inevitable complications). Now comes the passage I think is important: "This is without prejudice to the fact that the Federal Ministry of Health, in a clarification on the interpretation of the relevant provisions of the Federal Basic Law, has transmitted its legal view to all countries, that, on the basis of the applicable law, compensation payments are also considered in cases where a liability of the legal entity is clearly excluded. - Quote. I have read this to you because I would like to present a particular case in place for many cases of people who are currently fighting for their right. This is about a patient who suffered a sudden brain hemorrhage in 2004, then 24 years old. As a result, she was intensively cared for in a Vienna hospital, in a hospital of the hospital association. It has been treated with the active substance propofol using Diprivan and has subsequently received a rare disease, a rare complication, namely a syndrome also named after this medicine. What happened? – There was a so-called rhabdomyolysis, which means a resolution of the skeletal muscles. The medication was given for 120 hours instead of 48 hours. – As far as the dry description of the case is concerned. But for this patient, a martyrdom began: The patient is tied to a wheelchair today. She's got to take heavy drugs, take painkillers. She's got several operations behind her. The joints are all destroyed. It is now trying to claim damages by way of reparation. There she is sent from Pontius to Pilate, in the truest sense of the word. Following the refusal of a pain payment by the Vienna Hospital Association and the unsuccessful visit to the patient's attorney's office in 2005, the patient filed a complaint. The process marathon, which has been running for four years now, is an enormous psychological burden for this patient. For example, it was compared to a car engine in a negotiation. She has been told there that he can also be driven into the red area for a short time, and it does not go immediately “shattered. ” It has been cynically stamped in this way. Minister Stöger, I'm not doing You are personally responsible for this, for you have expressly said in a legal opinion that this is the case, but I am responsible for this by the socialist health councillor Wehsely, who has said the following: Makes better laws, then we will take care of them! I think that's a despicable scandal! The SPÖ in Vienna has failed politically and humanly in terms of health. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, we are not talking about an anonymous case here. Ms Schubert sits on top of the gallery and observes us, following this discussion, and she hopes that by giving her case here in this context you, Mr. Federal Minister, may personally accept this case and bring her martyrdom to a positive turn. I hope that the law, as I have understood it, will eliminate all misunderstandings in the future, because it is now clearly established that for this reason completely indebted and undisputed cases can be dealt with positively.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21515	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21538	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After we have agreed to the law, I accept some critical comments. First of all for patient compensation. I consider it intolerable and puzzling when a health ministry has to call on countries to explain to them laws on how to read and how to handle them, and yet many federal states have overliquid patient compensation funds because they have not yet addressed them. That's what you see: Federalism may have its advantages, but it also has obvious disadvantages. The fact that this has to be regulated by law now is good, but there is something else about it: It is also strange that patients will have to pay part of their hospital costs in the patient compensation fund in case they suffer a damage in the hospital. If you go to the Bundesbahn, buy yourself a ticket that costs €10.20, and you pay €4 in contribution to a “Bundesbahn Remuneration Fund”, because perhaps the Lokführer is not good at it or a traffic light has been misplaced or the creator is aggressive, I have to say: That is unworthy, so it can't be, it should be better regulated! Now a few comments on my previous speakers. – I think that the claim that there are so many successful projects of seam management is a slight exaggeration, so as not to call it annoyance. There is a study by the IHS, which shows that the innovative projects in the country groups, in the reform pool groups, do not use even 25 percent of the budget available, because there are no projects, or because there are only virtual budgets available to countries to cover their hospitals' deficits. - That's one. The second, to the ÖVP: Between a total state of supply and the motto “own responsibility”, in German: Whoever gets sick will also be guilty of it!, there are still nuances. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If a woman gets a mammary cancer, what did she do wrong? Was she overweight, or did she eat too little fruit? Or: When a child comes into the world with a closed pantyhose, where is there self-responsibility? Or: Where is the responsibility of a child with a heart defect or an addict? [[Abg. Grillitic shakes the head.]] Don't shake your head! [[Abg. Grillitsch: We didn't say they were guilty themselves!]] Education and income have the greatest impact on health and disease. Who can determine for himself how much he deserves, how much education he has – tell me! – and where he lives, in Hietzing or at the South Tangente? - That's a nonsense! Now I come to the Ethics Commission to speak briefly. There are clear improvements. An improvement is in particular the requirement that members of the Ethics Commission should make partialities transparent, cooperation with the pharmaceutical industry and the like, only: My experience and my knowledge are like this: Of course, they are asked if they are caught. The answer is usually: No!, even if it is. So you've got to look at that. The fact that the Ethics Commission can also conduct studies in the field of care and can make assessments is good, only there is a “can. ” How can this “can” be valued in reality or in reality, as one determines whether it corresponds to the patient’s position of interest: yes or no?, that must be clarified. That's where I have to ask: How's that going? As regards the letter of dismissal: This is perhaps even the best in the law, namely, that one sees the patient as a whole and not only closely focused on the science-medical, limited to the medical perspective, but that one builds up care, psychotherapy, social therapy, ergotherapy, so all that, so that no gaps arise. I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21590	The next item is the speech by Mr Höfinger. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21611	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Grünewald, I think you have gone a little too far in the examples you have now drawn. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: No!]] We know: Health care, health management, this applies in all areas of life. We are all constantly trying – here in this House I can say that – to bring people closer to a healthy way of life. However, we should not draw conclusions from this regarding really very drastic diseases, but we should generally be aware of this responsibility. That's exactly what it's supposed to mean. Our task is to always insist on improving health care and meeting the current and future challenges. To bring about improvements under constantly changing conditions, this will require us today, as well as in the future, very vehemently. I think that the amendment of this federal law on hospitals and health facilities contains many important things. Some of them have already been addressed today. It is also about adaptations and clarifications of the various ways. One point I would like to address briefly is: In addition to assessing care studies and new care concepts and methods, the evaluation of applied medical research on humans is also a task of the Ethics Commission. I have here a newspaper article entitled “More Ethics in Health! ” In this, Primarius Dr. Gerd Eichberger speaks of some very interesting approaches. I'm allowed to quote: ‘Health care homes are degraded to health industry businesses.’ And: “Patients are converted into customers in cynical form.” Primarius Eichberger, one of the most renowned psychiatrists and neurologists in our country, has announced the medical profession before. Furthermore, this article states: “Start with intense ethics discussions!, Eichberger reminds those present, especially the medical profession. He calls for more reflection on ethical components in the health business and away from the hard economics of the system.” – Quotes. I think that creating this spatula will be a major challenge in the next few years, because, as we know, our health system is facing major financial challenges, but we must not neglect this very point of ethics. – I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21646	Mr Wöginger has been mentioned as the last speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21669	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, this law brings about important adjustments and clarifications. I would just like to make three brief points, because the essential content of this law has already been explained very clearly and clearly by my previous speaker. However, I would like to highlight these points from the point of view of an employee of the Red Cross and not from the point of view of a doctor. The first point is that there is a legal separation between doctors and dentists. This seems to me to be an important point, especially in terms of strengthening professional competence, which will have a positive impact on the population. Second point: I also think it is important that it was made clear to the public prosecutor that only the institution responsible for the payment of the costs may be cancelled in the event of transfers from one hospital to the other. I can say from practice: This has sometimes occurred in such a way that a cost contribution from the patient for transporting the van was also a topic. I think it is right that there is now a change, and I welcome it. The third point which has already been raised: the letter of dismissal. – I mean, it is good that, according to the patient’s own decision, either this doctor or the remedial doctor and, if necessary, the facilities envisaged for further care and care are sent to this letter of dismissal. I, too, like my colleague Karl Donabauer, feel that this should not become clear with an infinite number of pages and extreme complexity, but that this letter of dismissal should be presented efficiently, which is important for the doctors as well as for the post-treatment bodies. This should be mentioned here. By the way, I am seeking approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21720	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas, together with the title and receipt in 404 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 405 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[19:57:16]] 17. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 184/A(E) by Mrs Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues and colleagues on the re-establishment of the financial assistance for the completion of the Mother-Child Pass and compulsory pre-school examinations (406, e.g.) 18. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 174/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues, on the extension of the mother-child-pass examinations until the 10. Year of life (407 d.a.) 19. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 612/A(E) by Mr Wolfgang Spadiut, Members of Parliament, on the acquisition of the costs of pre-natal examinations of the 'combined test' in the framework of the mother-child passport (408 d.e.b.) 20. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 361/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues, on the establishment of clear structures for prenatal diagnostics (409 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21830	We come to points 17 to 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. It is the first Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21857	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We now have a lot of applications to deal with, in the end, all of them with children, and I must say that the first two applications, which are now being negotiated, are those which are mother-child-pass examinations in children who have already been born. The one application concerns the granting of a financial contribution if the parent-child-pass examinations are carried out up to the pre-school age. We know exactly that until the 14th century. Although very many parents regularly visit a doctor with the child’s life-month, there is a waste after that because there is no more financial contribution. We therefore believe that we should motivate parents to carry out further investigations, especially between the 14th century and the 14th century. ==References== Year of life may occur in a variety of diseases, and it would be very useful to recognize them in good time. The second request concerns the general examination of the mother-child passport until the 10. It should be extended to cover the years of life. This has different reasons: We know that it is children from difficult families who often do not see a doctor, who often do not School goes when a school doctor's examination is under way, and it would be important to note exactly such children in good time and to be able to detect possible abuses and possible abuses in good time. The other two requests – those are Mr Spadiut's request and my request for the harmonisation of prenatal diagnostics – are applications dealing with another subject. With regard to the creation of clear structures for prenatal diagnostics: It is true that I have made the observation that very many parents, before doing such an investigation, do not know at all what they expect, on the other hand, how to deal with a possible result, which may not necessarily be the best thing to do. They really feel left alone here, feeling very lonely and pushed into the corner. I would really like to welcome it – even if you reject today’s request, and I have already said so in committee – and I would really ask you to think about how parents can be helped by giving parents advice on how to do so. - That's one. The other point is that just prenatal investigations are also dependent on where the place of residence is – depending on what you have to pay or not. I think this too is an unsustainable state: It cannot be that in the Vienna AKH certain investigations do not cost anything, in other hospitals already, in other federal states again. I mean, this too should be united once! Mr Spadiut's request from the BZÖ is also supported. I think all the investigations that can be made and that parents want to see should be free, but I am sending the following forward – and that is really a very, very important point for me –: I ask the parents – the mothers, but also the fathers – to really advise before any prenatal diagnostic investigation takes place. That's what really matters to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21915	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21937	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! My contribution to the debate relates to the two requests 184/A(E) and 174/A(E), submitted by the FPÖ; Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has already referred to her. As far as application 184/A(E) is concerned – this is the demand for reintroduction of financial grants for the completion of the mother-child passport and compulsory pre-school examinations – I would like to point out in principle that, I think, here in the House, we agree that the mother-child-pass examination programme is undoubtedly a very important tool for the health care of pregnant women and babies. However, the area of competence of this matter is primarily in the field of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, Family Affairs and Youth, and we therefore have the request to assign this request to the Family Committee. On the second request, motion 174/A(E) – which concerns the extension of the mother-child-pass examinations to the tenth year of life – I would like to say critically that we do not like the justification and also the measures to be put in accordance with this request. It will be discussed in the that, if children do not participate in investigations, the family allowance should be reduced. – In our opinion, this demand is counterproductive because it would restore the children to those who would feel the negative effects. By the way, I should also like to say that we certainly agree that all forms of child abuse must be prevented, but I am speaking out and my group is expressing itself and what we do not want, is that a situation is created in which parents are constantly accused of child abuse if they are unable to participate in investigations. If such a thing happens, that children are abused and that there are difficulties in families, then it is necessary that advice agencies be further extended to provide assistance, and that even if alcohol abuse takes place in families, one gives the people who are in this difficulty exactly the same assistance. And finally, I mean, the following thought is very important: Poverty and fear of the future can also lead to violence in some cases. It is necessary here to set the appropriate framework by combating poverty, but also by combating unemployment.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21982	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Spadiut. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22003	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Not from jux and tollery, as is tried to represent by an opinion of a network for critical discussion with prenatal diagnostics, was the “combined test” developed, but in order to allow becoming mothers to determine whether any chromosome anomaly exists even in the eleventh to fourteenth week of pregnancy. In the past, this was only possible with the fruit water puncture – this fruit water was taken from the uterus by means of, as said, puncture. The abortion rate was 0.5 to 1 percent, while the combined test is completely safe. Of course, it remains for pregnant women themselves to carry out this test – the personal freedom of choice of each individual must be maintained – only this test now has an obstacle, and that is the cost of 170 € that the parents who are becoming themselves must bear, and this obstacle is not overcome for many, especially in the current economic situation. Therefore, this ‘combined test’ should be included in the mother-child-pass examinations. [[BZÖ and Abg. Huber.]] New developments should always be given room. In the case of the ‘combined test’, the facts are that this test is already offered as a valuable non-invasive method with a comprehensive mother’s check, or as a modern method of investigation. Becomeing mothers have very probably collected information about Internet forums, which modern investigation methods are available. In the sense of every pregnant child, in the current state, the impression remains that in the current form the mother-child pass does not correspond to the final state of modern medicine and that even additional costs need to be put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22049	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. Fixed speaking time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22070	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I thank my previous speaker for describing exactly how a mother is in a certain situation. But now on the serious subject, the two requests concerning Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein's mother-child passport: [[Abg. Scheibner: After a moment! That was serious!]] [[Abg. Grosz: He knows each other!]] The mother-child pass with the planned studies is an important part of our system, it cannot be shaken, and it is also an important part in the field of precautionary care. However, I believe that when we speak of an extension to the age of ten, we forget that there are school examinations from the age of six. I would rather think about how I am dealing with it in the meantime – which is also addressed by the requests – if I no longer receive child care allowance and then perhaps take it “more easily” with the investigations or no longer perceive the investigations at all. On the one hand, however, it should be said that this is part of the Family Committee, not only because I am committee chairman and there I want to continue working on the content of the request – that would be my personal concern – but also because it is important to wait, as Mr Health Minister said in the Committee. He has commissioned a study, and perhaps the results of this study come a little faster, not only in half a year, so that we have it at least until the beginning of 2010 and we can use these developments or the experience from this study for these applications, because we know what makes sense after the gap – if no child care allowance is provided until the start of the school and beyond. But I would like to say the following, because the discussion is not new: I often wonder where the responsibility of the parents remains. – If I get an investigation, if I get all these offers free of charge, and I don’t even think it’s worth taking the time to go to a doctor where I can register where I don’t have to wait for hours – I know that child doctors in this area come very much to the mothers; let’s say to mothers, but also to the fathers – to accept this, I’ve been wondering how much time we live. Where are we heading?- Oh, my God! It does not make sense for parents to take responsibility, but as politicians we have the responsibility to counter it, and I hope that we will find a solution so that there are no gaps in the investigation of the children.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22118	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22142	Mr President. Federal Minister! The mother-child pass was certainly an epochal progress in medicine and in the service of mothers, parents and children, but one has noticed – there are studies and records – that with lack of incentive systems the use, I say careful to wish for something. Mr Steibl may already be right to ask the question of the responsibility of the parents, perhaps also, but we all know: We have often held responsibility in life and have occasionally failed! – Why should it hurt a child that it has parents who do not want or can bear the responsibility in a moment or perhaps throughout their life, as we imagine it? - It's not supposed to be! That's why my appeal is: I understand a few things, but in the end this is at the expense of an innocent child, and that is not to be accepted! I don't like the other method – you're setting sanctions. Incentive systems can be found among those who either do not understand it, who have little education, who are devious of linguistic nature, or whatever, but people move, mothers move to take advantage of the mother-child-pass. However, even in times with increasingly fewer children, this is, so to speak, a routine examination in a gynecological practice or in almost all gynecological practices. Here, then, such a complex topic as the “combined test” with the determination of genetic aberrations is not the right place for me or, as experts say, the right setting because it leaves little time to discuss the consequences of such a test or its possible consequence. – I do not consider this test to be objectionable, but not recommended as part of a normal routine operation of the mother-child-pass examinations. What you do to close this hole without medical attention or examination between the course of the mother-child passport and the entry into school may be asked. – Here’s the mother-child pass to extend an investigation, anyway, I think it makes sense. I do not expect anything from the method of sending requests in the circle, then assigning them to the Family Committee. As far as prenatal diagnostics as a whole are concerned, these are already achievements to ensure not only the psychological but also the biological integrity of mother and child – of course, with the effect that defects can be found here, too, that can be problematic for the life of mother and child. I think there is a need to seek uniform federal regulations here, to meet the ethical criteria that can be financed and to regulate the right of a woman to know – which can also be called calming – not only as a single consequence of abortion. If I know my child's doing well, the pregnancy is often unburdened and different! That should be regulated, and I believe that this must also be financial. Since this is often ideologically overcrowded, some people who are particularly eager to discuss do not have the complete knowledge and do not have worldly views insignificant – which I do not reject at all! – it might be useful to enter into a dialogue with ethnicians, experts and the Ministry outside the Committee and then to hold a discussion in the Committee which deserves the name of discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22193	As the last speaker to speak, Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22214	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on Agenda item 19, Amendment No 612/A(E), and begin with three questions: Are healthy children feasible? Can we choose how children should be? And do we even want that? The “combined test” can be calculated by combining various tests with the probability of a possible chromosome anomaly. Prenatal diagnostics, as required in the application, appears to be that we can control and calculate pregnancies to the last detail and therefore order children according to our wishes. The “combined test” is already carried out in the case of so-called risk pregnancies. – It seems that we are moving more and more towards explaining pregnancies in themselves as a risk, but it is not the pregnancy, nor is it the child, which means the risk, rather we have become a risk company. The fact is that mothers of a disabled child have a much higher risk of poverty, both social and financial. Whether these women are over or below 35 years old, they play a subordinate role. They are alone because the divorce rate is unevenly higher for parents of disabled children. We have all the technical possibilities, but often there is no social framework. Although a trisomy 21 can be determined with the “combined test”, what is then? – The decision to have a child who may not be normal is a highly individual and private child. But why this decision is so difficult is also our responsibility. – We can reduce this so-called risk by not leaving children and their families alone. We can't design our children, but we can shape the world we want to live in. Since, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the test for risk pregnancies is still being applied, since a positive result must nevertheless not lead to a problem, but only leads to uncertainty, since an inconspicuous result does not nevertheless exclude a disability due to other causes and since the Mother-Child Pass Commission has spoken against a general screening, we follow the opinion of the experts and cannot join the request.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22267	No one has made any mention of this now. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteurs want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 406 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I agree with the request 184/A(E) to the Family Committee. We shall also vote on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its report 407 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 408 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This too is the majority and thus adopted. Finally, we are voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its report 409 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority and therefore adopted. [[20:21:06]] 21. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment No 385/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on action plan for healthy nutrition and exercise (410 d.b.) 22. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 631/A(E) by Dr Wolfgang Spadiut, colleagues on a school health programme (411d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22376	We now come to points 21 and 22 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has spoken. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22403	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that our children are getting thicker and thicker. In addition to malnutrition, overnutrition is of course also a lack of movement. We also know that there is an increase in chronic diseases in children. They are there, and this too is something we must not deny and what we have to react to. In this sense, of course, it is very useful for children to start a children's sports program, a children's movement program, start a nutrition program and also to explore advertising for children's food. Not all that is offered as child nutrition is also really healthy for children. It is often far too sweet, much too sugary, much too fat and is still praised as a so-called healthy food in advertising. If we know that advertising is aimed at children and how well they aim, then we also know that children naturally demand exactly such things. Of course, this also means that children feed wrong without being able to take the parents into some kind of responsibility here now, by saying that they are not looking at it, but the opposite is the case: All parents want the best for their children. That's not a question at all. We will agree with Mr Pirklhuber's request because I believe it makes sense to develop an overall concept, an overall health concept for young people, for children. However, we cannot accept the BZÖ's request, and I have already said that in committee. Especially the examination of overweight children by the school doctor twice a year is a point that works very stigmatizing for the children, and not every child that is thick is ill. I want to warn you that we are now giving up a beauty idea and think that only very thin children are also healthy children and very thin people also healthy people. That's not the case either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just as adult people are differently built, so are children. And that's where you have to sit. That is why I do not think you should do one thing, above all: It is not allowed to stigmatize children, who already have difficulty, because they may be thicker, by taking them out of the entire class and saying: Because you're so fat, you need to go to the doctor more often now! That is the wrong approach and the wrong way, and therefore we cannot accept this request. We agree with Mr Pirklhuber's request.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22461	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22482	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The S & D Party will not agree to the Pirklhuber request, because it is obsolete in content and contains demands that are involved in the competence of other local authorities. [[Abg. Brosz:... because he comes from the opposition!]] I'll explain this in detail. I agree with many statements made by my predecessor, in particular with regard to the wrong sewing behaviour of young people. Diet and exercise are essential cornerstones of health care and health promotion. Dietary-related diseases are rising worldwide, but also in Austria. Overweight with its follow-up effects is considered by the World Health Organization as “Epidemia of the 21st World Health Organization. ==References== We are therefore invited to take action. However, this proposal by the Greens is not in line with that. This request is partly obsolete in content. I wonder at the point two where it is called on to launch an action plan for movement. – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! Mr Pirklhuber has certainly not talked to Mr Brosz, the sports speaker, because for four years now exactly these projects have been under way, which we have decided unanimously in the Sports Committee. I recall the federal movement initiative “Fit for Austria”, initiated by then State Secretary Karl Schweitzer. I recall the federal movement program for kindergartens and folk schools, which has begun and which is an important step for more movement for children. And I recall the programmes of the sports roof associations, in particular the ASKÖ under the title “Hopsi Hopper” or the Sports Union under the title “UGOTCHI”. I therefore ask myself: What did the Greens think? – One cannot support the demand that is involved in the competences of the countries, namely in the direction of kindergartens. It is therefore necessary to reject the request. Today, the coalition parties, Mr Rasinger and I have tabled a request for a ‘National Food Action Plan’. As you know, there is already a rough concept for the National Food Action Plan, which will be presented at the beginning of 2010. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The S & D Party and the Austrian People's Party cordially invite the opposition parties, the health speakers, the colleague Belakovich-Jenewein, colleague Spadiut, colleague Grünewald to cooperate here. We are willing to set up a subcommittee in the Health Committee, which deals with the National Food Action Plan. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it's up to you to join us. We, the coalition parties, at least offer you this offer.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22550	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22571	Mr President. Minister! High house! The health situation of our children is bad. The children eat too much sugar, too little fiber and far too much fat. If you look at the current figures, you can see that one fifth of the to six-year-olds are too thick and 7 percent obese, that is, overweight in a way that results are expected. Imagine a family where parents refuse to wash their children regularly. These children have all kinds of skin problems, infections and therefore have to go to the doctor again and again. Every reasonable person would say in such a situation: Here the youth office has to intervene, because the parents have a certain obligation, and that is a kind of custody. – But if parents consistently feed their children wrong, feed them with potato chips and others instead of with normal food, and then weigh the children twice as much as their peers with four, five, six years of age, then from my point of view this is just as a depository. It is a depository because, as a society, we expect a certain minimum of care and reason from the parents in order to enable the children to get a proper start into life. That is, if parents, for whatever reason, fail here, the state must intervene. He's got to intervene, or we'll waste our future. If you look at the development internationally, you know what costs there are. That is, today's misdevelopments are the cost of tomorrow. That's why I'm asking you here first: Let us take the parents to duty, let us tell them what we want from them! We want them to provide proper nutrition for their children, because the foundation stone is laid in the first years of life. All these programmes, which you, Mr Minister, in schools, in kindergartens, are good, but they are too late. A child is finished when it comes to eating habits at the age of three. That is, if the children are not given fruit, no vegetables until the age of three, the child will not want it at all and will not eat at all. There are even children who – I have experienced it myself – when giving them carrots because they are not used to it because they have never eaten it. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Don't force children to eat!]] That means it's not about forcing a child to eat what you might want, Mr Pirklhuber. It is not about exercising pressure, it is about feeding the child properly from the beginning of the first year. And since we have to take the parents into duty, they have to inform them accordingly, they have to give them appropriate opportunities – even financially, no question, because we know that most obese children are found in the underclass. This certainly has two reasons: first, little knowledge of the negative consequences of this diet and second, simply financial reasons, because inferior foods are cheaper than high-quality foods. We all know that. A balanced diet must also be able to afford. That is to say, in this area we are not likely to need a lot of effort, which cannot be limited to kindergarten and school alone. The parents too must be taken to duty, and we must look, not look away, otherwise we will waste the future here! One thing is also quite certain: If we don't manage to keep our children healthy, then we don't need to talk about pensions in this house anymore, because that's all falling down. Our children are the basis for the future, and without our children there is no health system, no pension system that can work in the long term. That's why: Let's look, let's not look away! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22614	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22635	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I have almost been afraid that I have only two minutes to deliver a major health policy speech on prevention. – But fun side by side: The subject deserves more attention. This issue is the central part of every modern health policy – or should it be. I'll tell you why. The situation is – and that is what I am telling you now as one who has been a doctor for 25 years – a disaster that comes about prevention! It is what is going on in health research – that would be a step further – not bad, but what the primary prevention is about, disastrous in Austria. Now we can say: politics, politics! – Policy can only help, because ultimately it is primarily an educational problem and a problem of self-responsibleness. If a person does not take responsibility for his body, nothing will be useful! We have a dramatic waste of activity in the children. If they burn 2 000 kilocalories per week – this corresponds to about three times a three-quarters of an hour fast walking, running or something that makes a child in and for themselves, they reduce their infarction risk by two-thirds. It doesn't make a drug in the world! No medication in the world creates two-thirds of heart attack reduction, and we can't order a child ten years old to have a fat exchanger. That's completely absurd and absurd. Nevertheless, we must note that the children are no longer moving, they only move more imagination figures in front of the computer. - Fact one. Fact two: Our children and adults have never been so thick before. I thought that's all there is in America, because I hope so many thick people, as unshaped as I saw them in America, will never experience again. But now I have to review my opinion – mea culpa! –: There are already enough thick people in Austria. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Beautiful modern times!]] If you know how unhealthy this is, you ask yourself: Why is nothing happening? - That can't be ordered by the Minister! We can create a consciousness, but I'll tell you: With healthy diet – keyword “French diet” or “meer diet”; i.e. vegetables, salads, olive oil; Red wine should not drink children – in turn, they can reduce their infarction and cancer risk by two thirds. So two thirds there, two thirds there. The third factor is smoking. We know that 50 percent of 15-year-olds smoke. And then I let myself come the laws and notice, it is to be read in all the laws of the country: Young people under the age of 16 are not allowed to be sold, young people under 16 are not allowed to smoke. There is no use in our law at the age of 18, but there is also the responsibility, but also the responsibility and model of the parents. If we continue in health policy and want to reduce costs in the long term, then we have to stop where it really makes sense, and that is not the 80-year-old; I give it all. But the least cost and the most effect you will achieve if you try to consistently reduce the lack of exercise, wrong nutrition and smoking in children. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] And whoever doesn't believe this to me: The American President of the Internalist Society has said that the “intensive stations” of the future will be the fitness center. Another thing: Love isn't just... [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Health goes not only through the stomach, but also through the stomach.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22713	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22734	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! There were some important statements, but perhaps one thing ahead: The topicality of this issue has really been explained by Mr Rasinger. And that's why, Mr Maier, I have to tell you quite honestly, because You said there was something going on: A dash in there, okay, a character – but everything is absolutely up-to-date! This is confirmed by the Austrian nutrition report, which is rightly quoted on your homepage, Mr. Federal Minister. Mr Rasinger, the question I would ask you about your correct diagnosis is: Why did it get there? [[Abg. Weinzinger: McDonald’s, Fast Food!]] Why is this development apparently not to stop as you have described it now? This question would be discussed and resolved, but that, Mr Federal Minister, was not signalled to us by the SPÖ committee. You have attracted a lot, and I hope you will comment that you are also willing to take steps here. I am only surprised that Mr Maier, who originally comes from the Chamber of Workers, does not recognize the drama and the need, because you said, Mr Maier: We want the countries to do something. I will now read to you this part of the request so that you can simply make your misunderstanding public. I quote from the request: "The competent members of the Federal Government are also invited to assert their influence in cooperation with the countries and communities, 1. that, as far as possible, healthy food is offered to kindergartens and schools,...’. So, please, why not? This is a common effort. It can't be – and there I am with Mr Rasinger, because that's right – that federal policy solves it alone! It cannot, but it must provide the framework and, together with the countries, the municipalities, the population and the schools, take the appropriate measures. From my point of view, there is not a single point of content within which we cannot fully support it if we look at this current situation in concrete terms. On this occasion: It could be the hall here, because this is a future question that we are dealing with here. But there are Members of this House who at the moment obviously want to enjoy the buffet delights, namely at the country match Austria – Spain. I think that Mr Westenthaler has once again forgotten what he is for, namely, being a parliamentarian and having the debate on health policy. [[Abg. Petzner: Mrs Glawischnig has not been here for six hours now!]] He prefers to enjoy the buffet at the country match while discussing health policy. I don't think that's a good style – sport yes, movement, too. [[Abg. Petzner: Where's your club wife? She hasn't been here for six hours!]] Mr Petzner, don't get upset! You have submitted your own application and you should also argue accordingly. As I said, Minister of State: I'm very curious about what you're going to propose. In any case, I think it is incomprehensible why the SPÖ – from my point of view – is so massively opposed to this request. It's clear to me: The World Health Organization calls on all States to take action. The European Union, in its White Paper against obesity, has also said this very clearly and clearly, we need action, we need to act and we need to implement something over the next four to five years. The problem is that there is no movement in schools, Mr. Federal Minister. That's not what I'm saying. Your core area, but you can also carry on this subject in the Federal Government. That was our idea and our consideration because, together in the Committee, we found that this form of health policy is cross-cutting matter. It will not be possible to solve that alone in your department, but you can create the appropriate framework conditions there, you can put the structures in such a way that something will really be changed in schools at last. Let me give you an example. The possibility to introduce organic food into the school canteens of all day schools is simply a future milestone. There are pilot projects that we should strengthen together. The other is the ban on advertising. We are firmly convinced that children cannot be handed over to the market in the way they are now. If you know that even the American President was willing to tax the soft drinks of large corporations and get this money for the health system, then he is absolutely right! And it is completely unclear and completely incomprehensible why in Austria – a country that boasts itself, certain qualities of lifestyle – in schools, of course, advertising is made for fast food, advertising for drinks that are not health-enhancing and which are proven to be harmful to health. Mr Federal Minister, this is the challenge of making a few key points clear to the public and of making it clear to the public that there is a health policy with corners and edges so that the necessary discussions can happen in society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22821	Next speaker: Federal Minister Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22842	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The National Diet Action Plan does not need to be guided, it is already on its way. I recall that I have adopted a regulation on trans fats, an element that is part of the diet action plan. It is important to explore ways in which conditions can be changed so that people can get healthier diets so that healthy choice is the easier choice. This is a challenge that we want to face and which we are dealing with very specifically. In this respect, this offer by the Subcommittee is quite exciting in its form to conduct this discussion. It is about people's behavioural changes, which is a matter of education. This has been addressed by several speakers. This too is an element: We'll make it clear. I asked the Supreme Council on Saturday to deliver the basics. The Supreme Council of Sanity agreed to define the food pyramid equally throughout Austria. We now have a scientifically sound food pyramid to end these contradictions and the uncertainty. That is to say, it is being worked very concretely. We also discussed the question in the Supreme Council of Sanity: How do older people, people who are in old and nursing homes, get to their proper diet? There is the reverse, namely, malnutrition. The Diet Action Plan is a dynamic plan. In principle, we have developed a concept. This is currently at the AGES in refinement and rework. We want to fully support and strengthen these measures. We also have a debate on the school question. It is right what has been said here, namely: What opportunities do parents have for giving children the right food if there are no facilities in school? And there are qualitative steps. I remember that some federal states, some cities that implement free schooling, kindergartens. That's a real step. Thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With the Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport, we have set up many joint activities so that children and young people are taught the joy of the movement, the joy of sports. That's very important. We also need the courage to design school buildings in such a way that the children and young people have room to move. But I have also contributed to the fact that many of the funds available to the Fund for Healthy Austria, especially sport, are in the interest of the movement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion: The National Diet Action Plan will be available for wide-ranging discussion in spring 2010. I am looking forward to an intense debate so that we can also come to a change of opinion, a change of opinion and thus a better health.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22903	Mr Dr Karlsböck has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22924	Mr President. Minister! What has been said by my previous speakers today can be underlined without lethargy in far distances; in fact, it is not much to add. What Erwin Rasinger has said, even what you, Mr Minister, have just said, of course, this has a hand and foot, but – and there I am of different opinion – it is not with the assumption that this could happen on a voluntary basis, on a reasonable basis. I think we need incentives and we need leadership, especially the young people, but also the older people. In Austria, the paradox is that it is still forbidden for the cash registers to finance preventive medical measures. Prevention medicine is not yet the subject of professional training and further education at universities in Austria. That's different internationally. This has been impressively demonstrated by the fact that the Nobel Prize has been awarded to researchers in the field of prevention and training this year. Paradox is also in our country that there is an ever-increasing difference between what the doctor is able to do and what the doctor actually can do. Prevention is not a service of the legal and only exceptional nature of the private funds, because it does not meet the criteria of a cost acceptance by the Solidarity Community, which is: economically sufficient, necessary and appropriate. Nor is it surprising that national health targets and a prevention law in Austria are a foreign word. The individual person, however, the individual knows exactly what could actually make him sick. I would just like to give you two examples of how this problem could be dealt with theoretically. If you imagine that on the one hand the number of children and young people with diabetes and obesity is increasing dramatically, you are aware that in Austria those farms are getting the highest agricultural promotions that produce sugar or sugary products. And on the other hand, children move less and less. Nevertheless, the number of hours of gymnastics in schools has been reduced due to savings measures. One could now go here and say that there is simply no need for new concepts in any health systems, but in this particular case only a reform in the agricultural sector and in the school system needs. A health system that does not function holisticly is ill. And reforms – we all know – will be necessary. There will be a need for radical reforms in the health field, in the field of prevention, otherwise in ten years exactly the same thing will happen. We will stand here again – not we anymore – our successors will stand here and will continue to discuss the same topic in the conjunctive.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e22970	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 410 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its report 411 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. I agree with Amendment No 631/A(E) to the Committee on Education. [[20:51:18]] 23. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment No 538/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in the field of Austrian medicinal product hotline for the blind (412 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23040	We're now going to the 23rd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig has spoken. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23067	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In Austria, according to the disabled report, about 318,000 people live blind or severely impaired. Many things of everyday life are a great challenge for these people, they are also associated with many difficulties. Challenges that are probably not understandable to all of us, because we do not have this impairment. In my opinion, all of us are invited and called on to take these difficulties seriously, to deal with them and to help those people on their way to a self-determined life. However, we also insist that experts always remind us of this and that we take the advice and the demands of experts seriously. Thus, the ÖBSV and the aid community of the blind and the weak in vision of Austria are also a strong partner for blind and visually weak people in Austria. They have been working very successfully and very vehemently for improvements for blind and visually weak people for many years. It could already be decided this year, even here in the House, an improvement, such as the Braille writing on the e-card from 2010. Another improvement for blind and visually weak people is the passage of the exit side in ÖBB trains; a small thing for seeing people, but for blind people, a small measure with a big impact, as I mean. In my opinion, this today's proposal for the implementation of an Austro-wide drug hotline is an important further contribution for blind and visually weak people, as this will increase the safety of the drug users concerned. In this case, it should be noted that there is a need for an There has already been a pilot project since 2007 in Tyrol, which has been implemented together with the ÖBSV, the Austrian Pharmacy Association, Telekom and the ORF, that just under this free hotline number blind and visually weak people receive information from trained pharmacists and pharmacists about important information in the pack texts. Questions about the exchange and side effects of medication have also been answered over and over again. Today's application is now to implement this pilot project in Austria. I am confident that we will deal with this issue together because I am convinced that this is in the best hands of Federal Minister Stöger.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23109	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23131	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We are on an important, sometimes vital issue. It's about taking medication safely. Massive problems can arise if one cannot read the usage information. And with these problems, we must not leave patients alone. Therefore, an Austro-wide drug hotline is necessary for blind and visually weak people. My previous speaker has already done the details very clearly. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a step further. How does reality look? – With age, vision can decrease. This concerns most of the approximately 2 million pensioners. And how are these people doing? – You take a side pack in your hand and despair. You can't read the microscript or only with foreign help. That is why we wish ourselves: The information on the pack must be readable for everyone. Key words microscript and larger letters: But until it is that far, ladies and gentlemen, we wish for a free round-the-clock drug hotline for all patients who need help. This is not such an exotic wish, we look only in our neighbouring country Germany! There's some kind of hotline there and it works great. There you can ask 365 days a year around the clock questions about the correct use of medicines. You can even ask where the next official pharmacy is and whether a certain medication is available. We are pleased to see improvements for blind and visually impaired people, which we are considering with today's request. But we also want improvements for all people, so that anyone who has to take a medicine can do so in maximum safety. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23176	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23197	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a great pleasure for an opposition politician to be able to enforce a request that is made in terms of content. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to point out that it was very positive or a positive experience for us when we see that the government parties are accepting applications and then ready to implement them. I would be very pleased if that were the case more often in the future. [[Abg. May. Lap: Arrives to the request!]] We will make a great effort to repeat this by making good requests. Ladies and gentlemen, almost 320 000 people in Austria are affected, blind or severely impaired. You have biggest problems when it comes to taking a medicine properly, because you simply can't read the pack. However, I would also like to point out that there are also many people who simply can see a little worse and can't read the leaflet because the writing is so unlikelyly small. You've probably already had this experience. There would be a good step in changing the pharmacovigilance marking regulation to change the font size in such a way that a person who may already see a little worse can still read this pack. That would be a next step we could take. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Aubauer.]] The pilot project carried out in Tyrol was a very successful one. I am convinced that if we implement this project in similar Austrian form, it will not cost as much as possible, for example, because it is possible to speak the sideboards on tape and then to play directly for the interested patient. There are all these possibilities. I don't want to talk too long; You have already presented the arguments. It's clear we need this hotline for blind and visually impaired people. Once again, I would like to thank all the political groups here in the House who support this request so much. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23246	The next item is the speech by Mr Spadiut. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23267	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As this request was concretely made by a five-party request, it is of course for us to agree. We also see it as our duty to support blind and visually impaired people in the best possible way, including this hotline. This allows people to be saved from the consequences of improperly taken drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23292	The last speaker to speak was Mrs Mag. Jarmer. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23313	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I really think this issue is very, very good today. It is a very important issue that the package texts are really well understood. I am very glad that we are all of the same opinion once, so that we can really take action and implement it. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] I would now like to establish a link to drug revenue caused by damage. Now I'm going on. An example of injury The Contergan sufferers are those who can be caused by medications. You know this topic. We have already discussed this in the Committee, and you, Mr Health Minister, have mentioned in the Committee that you want to take action on this issue this year or have discussions. We have about 35 affected people in Austria, who are already in the middle of their lives and now at an age where they simply have additional health problems, need additional measures and also have additional expenditure. That is, I wish we could find a solution for this group of people this year, as you have said, which can then be implemented next year. I also wish that this is not only a lip confession, but also a Christmas message for the people concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23361	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 412 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 57.) [[21:03:08]] 24. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 638/A(E) by Dr Wolfgang Spadiut, Members of Parliament, on strengthening controls under the ‘Bundesgesetz on the transport of animals and related operations’ and increasing the criminal dimension of illegal transport (413d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23411	We're coming to the 24th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Vock. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23438	Madam President. Minister! High house! I am convinced that all Members here in the House are against illegal animal transport – only with regard to the measures we can prevent or make difficult, we do not agree. I also believe that the SPÖ spokesperson would be willing to make a joint request here. Unfortunately, this joint proposal - I say, probably again because of the ÖVP - has not been achieved, because unfortunately there has not been a joint discussion of all animal protection speakers. What does the BZÖ want? – It wants higher penalties and a strengthening of controls. There are many points which we support in principle, and I believe that higher penalties are only useful if it is really more efficient and more frequent. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already introduced relatively high fines into the law, but the penalty is actually about €200. This is a calculable risk for a transporter. With a relatively low penalty of 200, 300 €, he deliberately calculates the risk of being caught by chance – we do not catch every carrier. We can also, in principle, agree with the second request for increased controls, although I believe that the Ministry of Health is not responsible for the increased controls, but for the Ministry of the Interior. That is, as I mean, a question of form. In principle, however, we are also in favour of increased controls. The Greens want to move five points to the EU level because animal transport is not only an Austrian problem, but because it is an EU problem, especially the promotions. You have shown two examples from 2008 in your application. On the homepage of the association „Tier-Wege“ you will find another 28 cases; In 2009 they discovered a case. On the website of the club you will find another 14 cases. We liberals thank the association “Tier-Wege” once in principle for its work, because only by showing these cases can we continue to work here in Parliament and thus have the basis for our work. What are the FPÖ requirements? – Consequences of action and penalties, especially the use of these arrest frameworks. As I said, the highest arrest frame will not help us if the minimum rate is applied. Then another thing: The reduction of vehicles in the case of illegal transport. There is § 40 para. 1 and 2 in the Animal Protection Act. We would have the opportunity. The authorities do not even think of such a thing. But that would be important, because if the transporter or his driver has to go home on foot, I'll see if this is repeated. That means that we could really use it, only then would we have to consider whether § 40 para. 3, where we then have to pay for auctions, is really still useful. If you smuggle cigarettes in Austria, these cigarettes will be taken away without replacement. Why not apply to animals at least the same rules as cigarettes?
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23502	Next speaker: Mr Keck. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23524	Madam President. Minister! Mr Vock, I can calm you, there will be a discussion of all the animal protection speakers tomorrow, and we will present a request, which I hope will also find your approval and which we can then make in committee as a five-party request. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this request from the BZÖ. Austria is a transit country for illegal animal transport. It is true that thousands of dog puppies are probably transported illegally every year through Austria, and it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that many of these animals die during the transports, and it is true that it is true here that 137 puppies could be taken off at a stroke in the Styria, were secured and passed on to an animal shelter. But it is of no use – my previous speaker has already said it – to increase the penalty by ten times now if the current criminal framework, which is present, is not used by the District Headquarters. It does not help to increase the penalty framework to €70 000 if the maximum penalty of €7 000 has not been lifted yet, and it does not help to strengthen control, for it is impossible to stop every passenger car on the southern highway and see if dog puppies are transported in the trunk of a passenger car. I believe – as I believe my previous speaker – that effective measures would be to confiscate the transport vehicles in which dog cubs are transported illegally. However, the Committee on Health is not responsible for this, and we need to talk about it in the Committee on the Interior. We would like to continue these talks there. Since it is pointless to raise the criminal framework if the current one is not used, we will not agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23566	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23587	Madam President. Minister! High house! If an Austrian farmer wants to transport his animal, be it to the slaughterhouse or to a auction, he needs various approvals. The first one, in order to be able to transport the animals 15 kilometres, needs a second permit to continue to drive, whether it be to a slaughterhouse or to a auction. These permits are, of course, chargeable, not a question. If the veterinarian then transports the animal to the slaughterhouse, his transport from the veterinarian present there is checked for the exactest, and the quietest crime, the slightest violation is already punished with up to €300. On the other hand, countless foreign animal transports cross Austria. The conditions for these animals are disastrous: insufficient water and feed supply, low space, terrible climatic conditions. These transports are not adequately controlled. Moreover, as Mr Keck has already said, Austria is the transit country for the animal transport mafia. Innumerable dog puppies are transported through Austria each year or offered for sale on motorway parking. Many of these animals die during or as a result of transport. The transport conditions are also disastrous for these animals. As I said, in this case it would be meant to increase the penalties, but also to take away the animals from the dog smuggler on the spot. The fact, however, is – and this is the root evil – that the controls of the transports, whether from farm animals or dog puppies, are too ineffective and insufficient. There is a veterinarian with four police officers all day on the highway, waiting for an animal transporter, and then just once a animal transporter comes over to control. They're wasteful resources. It would be far more effective to carry out these checks at the left-out border crossings. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23648	The application has been properly filed and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23706	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23729	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the Committee's report on the BZÖ's motion for a resolution on strengthening controls on the transport of dog puppies, which are partially carried illegally. In principle, we may, of course, realize that it is very, very important for us to comply with the transport conditions that are laid down, which are also defined in the law, so that we comply with the law. Nevertheless, I think we should look at the three points that are required in this proposal a little closer. And here I am at the first point: Increase the criminal framework. In any case, penalties must be provided for in the law and also pronounced. This is already so enshrined in the law in force. But I believe that there must be a focus on the use of the current criminal frameworks and that, in the end, proportionality should be maintained accordingly. The second point to be asked by the Federal Minister is to adapt the control plans to the current needs under the Federal Law on the transport of animals and the related operations. I believe that this will make the Federal Minister very sure and we do not necessarily have to do so in the form of a request. I am convinced of this and trust the Minister of State. Thirdly, If the Federal Minister is to be asked to forward any reports from the federal states and neighbouring countries in time to the control bodies serving in Austria, I believe that the execution is of course a matter of country. In particular, the countries bordering on the eastern states are called for to operate in accordance with these conditions, either in Lower Austria or mainly in the Burgenland, including Styria, because this traffic is mainly carried out in the East or in the East. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Czech Republic!]] We believe that we must set up activities very well. However, animal welfare does not stop at the state borders. That is why we have decided that we should work out an extensive demand package towards the European Union, which we should discuss and decide in the near future. At any rate, we are working for practical animal protection, for animal welfare that comes across the animals and thereby indirectly benefits people in our country. The present motion for a resolution is, I believe, not suitable or worthy of much improvement. That is why we reject the BZÖ's request and agree to the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23767	Now comes Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23788	Madam President. Minister! High house! First: As an animal protection speaker, I am pleased that today, since I have been here in the House, there is a agenda item on animal welfare for the first time. That has never been the case so far. So far, we have always had to attach this somewhere in order to be able to address animal welfare as well. I am so pleased that today we can also talk publicly about animal welfare for the first time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, our proposals and initiatives have been postponed again and again in the committees. There have been a number of initiatives by us, not least because of the recommendations of the Council of Animals. For example, finally, the dehorning of calves without pain control must end, that is animal torture. It must finally end with the quailing of lobsters that are thrown alive in boiling water, that is animal torture. We finally need criteria for training dogs. Only recently has there been a dramatic case again. For example, there is also a need for special action on the part of pigs. That is exactly where much more attention needs to be paid to the right attitude. It must finally be over with the painful castration of male piglets. [[Abg. Donabauer: Stop!]] – I don’t know why you’re so excited about why there’s so big a problem. I hope your pigs are fine. And there we could list a lot, a lot, a lot, where finally more needs to be done in animal welfare. Now on animal transport, animal welfare, animal welfare in transport. We will, of course, agree with both of the BZÖ's requests. We also have our own. I really do not understand the justification for the postponement in committee. We call for the Minister to work at EU level to protect animals in transport. The reason for the delay was that it was “serious to implement”. And I am asking why it is so “hard to implement” that at EU level it is only possible to do something at EU level. Therefore, I would like to make the following request again: [[Quoted print version removed]] You can confess color today, especially, ladies and gentlemen of the government, whether you are really concerned about animal welfare or not by accepting the opposition's requests. Do something for animal protection! But also work for the people who work for animal protection instead of persecuting them! And by the way, I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23867	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e23967	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 413 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Spadiut, ladies and gentlemen, on increased controls under the Animal Transport Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – That's the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, on measures to protect animals in transport. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[21:20:39]] 25. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 839/A(E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, Gabriele Tamandl, Wolfgang Zanger, Sigisbert Dolinschek, Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on the labelling of foodstuffs, on the Amendment 137/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on the requirement of labelling for processed eggs, on the Proposal 698/A(E) by Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek, Members of Parliament on food labelling requirements in gastronomy, on the Amendment No 613/A(E) by Mr Wolfgang Zanger, Members of Parliament, on the clear labelling of ice cream substitutes, on the Amendment No 614/A(E) by Mr Wolfgang Zanger, Members of Parliament, on the clear labelling of cheeses of art, on the Question No 697/A by Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek, Amendment No 718/A(E) by Mr Mag. Birgit Schatz, colleagues and colleagues on the reform of the Quality Regulation (414 d.a.) 26. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment No 367/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on a consistent designation of origin for foodstuffs (416 d.b.) 27. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on the application 706/A(E) by Mr Wolfgang Zanger, colleagues, on the prohibition of the manufacture and sale of ‘fowl ham’ (417, e.g.) 28. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment 653/A(E) by Mr Harald Jannach, colleagues, on the review of the wide range of quality marks and a reduction in quality marks and quality marks that are manageable for consumers (418b.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24144	We come to points 25 to 28 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24174	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In November 2009, let us take a family with children and, more importantly, responsible parents. This family goes to a guest house. It has there the usual beautiful menus, but unfortunately no information about origin and production of what it wants to consume there. The parents go to a store and want to buy something good, something healthy. There are a lot of signs and seals – the Chamber of Workers has found in a study how many there are; too many, to the hundred – but it is not really recognizable what is really good and healthy. Eggs are contained in the food, but it is not recognizable how the chickens were kept and fed. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Are you for it now or against it?]] A pizza with ham and cheese – is the cheese real or analog, is the ham real or shy? All this is not recognizable. Has GMOs been used somewhere? – That is not recognizable. With today's proposal or, rightly so, with what is to follow the resolution, if all this is implemented, this family will be able to buy and consume something decent. In the inn, the origin and mode of production will be clearly recognizable, and the store will provide a relatively clear information about the eggs, the ham and the cheese. That's what the family wants, whatever parents want when they buy products. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The whole is, of course, implemented within the framework of EU rules. Please save me any comment on this issue, on the subject of EU and its regulations. I am aware of what is behind it, but much more important is the fact that in this proposal we also have the subject of GMOs inside again. Mr Federal Minister, you know the whole thing, we have already achieved a partial success, and we also want to continue working there, because the EFSA, the European authority responsible for it, does not have the risk assessment as we imagine it to be. Another important and positive point in this motion for a resolution is, of course, the control of the countries, because the whole motion for a resolution, the whole of the implementation is only worth half if the federal states fail to control it afterwards. In this sense, this request must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24219	Next, Mr Magistrate. Maier speaking. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24240	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of my group, I would like to thank all the groups in this House, including Mr Tamandl, for having been able to make a joint request, which includes issues that we – Mr Pirklhuber knows – have discussed for years. The debate is certainly not complete, but it must continue, but we now have a joint resolution on which we can continue to build. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I said that the discussion must continue, because there are a number of major problems, and if, my previous speaker pointed out, there is no control, the best laws are useless. Therefore, I would like to thank the Minister for Health, who has announced that in 2010 the focus will be on controls in the field of food labelling and protection against deception and misleading consumers. There are a variety of examples of how consumers are being cared for, currently on “abgeist.de” in Germany. There is a contribution to milk mixture drinks, for example, by the company Monte, which praises this product as a “healthy drink” with “valuable grape sugar”, suitable as “between meal”. What Zott says about her milk mixture Monte Drink sounds great, but unfortunately it's a real threesome deception. In fact, there is one thing in Monte: Sugar. About 8 pieces of cube sugar contains a bottle of Monte – more than the same amount of Cola. Or another example, from the consumer centre in Germany: In a 500 millilitre cup of fruit milk, for example, there are 18 pieces of cube sugar, each piece with 3 grams. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! And consumers are pre-accelerated, especially by the food industry, that they take healthy food. This will be another challenge for us, Mr Federal Minister, and we hope that precisely such cases will be identified in these control areas. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This request is also a reliable mark of goodness. Government parties SPÖ and ÖVP are committed to a common quality mark for special qualities, and we agreed in the Committee that this quality mark should, of course, apply to all relevant products and services. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me, it is incomprehensible – and I say this very critically towards the Chambers of Agriculture – that the following sentence is contained in a paper from the Austrian Chamber of Agriculture: The Austrian Chamber of Agriculture therefore rejects a scheme which cannot stop the wild growth of quality marks and therefore questions the need for a new quality mark. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The question answers the Government Convention: We have agreed on a common sign of goodness.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24295	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24319	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The five-party request concerning food labelling is of course supported by us and is a good step in the right direction. I would like to focus briefly on the seal of goodness and the variety of seal of goodness that exists. Finally, the affixing of quality stamps had the same function as a road traffic light: Red stands for danger, yellow stands for alertness and green stands for free ride. People understand these signals and focus on them, because this marking is easy to understand and one can rely on them. When driving the shopping carterl you cannot track the traffic light system as well by marking in the grocery stores and you can not trust it so much. In fact, the signals are not clear, and the consumer really needs to look closely to see what is inconceivable now and what might be dangerous. It's on the seal of goodness. There are a variety of quality seals that provide information about product, quality, origin, the negative effects on the health of consumers. There's a forest of signposts storming up. The consumer can no longer understand it, and it is really difficult to find out here. In addition, the companies are still quoting untold studies as to why a yogurt is supposed to increase intelligence, why the aging process is slowed down or why the skin image is improved. These advertising measures with pseudoscientific The claim is particularly widespread in such foods, which are praised as a valuable contribution to the nutrition of infants. We have heard a lot about it in the health debate today. For many foods, the assessment of what one has to do with it is not so easy. We from the BZÖ want clear labelling, clear and understandable labelling of the directives and quality marks. As long as consumers can only learn about the quality of their trusts by means of extensive research, those who are bent on putting their products into a better light through false or incomplete information. Now I would also like to speak to the red and white-red AMA seal, which is very common to people and which is basically not bad either, but there is the worm inside, ladies and gentlemen, for: Not everywhere the AMA seal is on it, is automatically processed meat free of genetic engineering. That's not the case with the AMA seal. This impression is given here, it is awakened here, but there is also a lot about it. There was also a survey of Greenpeace: 62 percent of Austrians believe that AMA-tested meat comes from animals that have not been fed with genetically modified feed. That's not the case. To conclude: I welcome this request. We will, of course, support this request. It goes exactly in the right direction and represents a step towards more safety and more protection for good food for consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24365	Mrs Tamandl is now speaking. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24388	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that both of us from the government parties, Mr Maier and I, have already announced and offered a five-party application on food labelling in the Consumer Protection Committee, because there have also been some requests from the opposition to points where we have also seen the need for action. But, of course, it is not always that we can make laws on labels and cetera ourselves in Austria, but often we are also dependent on EU directives or simply have to look at what is happening here in the European Union. I believe that, with this five-party proposal, we have really covered the necessary areas, including regulations, such as the Consumer Information Regulation, which must be concluded at European level, but of course also – what we have heard a few times today – the issue with the quality marks, with the seal of goodness. I would like to stress once again – and we have already discussed it in committee – that there are just these two most well-known quality marks: the AMA quality mark and the AMA biomark. And, Mrs. Colleague, it's so that you obviously can't believe everything you might see somewhere. The Committee also addressed the McDonald’s advertising, for example, where the cows walk around on the pasture and then this AMA mark is displayed. So in the AMA biomark you can be quite sure that no GMO feed is used here either. And I think the consumer can also learn enough about these labels, about the quality marks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank Mr Maier in particular for the fact that we have worked out this comprehensive request together, but of course also with the opposition parties, who will also support this request as an applicant, or will also vote here. However, I would also like to express my explicit thanks to agriculture and the economy, for I believe that it is necessary if we in Austria, for example, agree on labelling requirements in the gastronomy, that the gastronomy finds what it needs to mark on its menu in a wholesale shop. That is, we cannot impose anything on anyone where the gastronomy or where the commercial or non-commercial gastronomy itself cannot orient: What are the ingredients? Where come, for example, processed Eggs, come from a laying battery, are the eggs of free-going chickens, of ground-keeping hens et cetera? That means we really have to leave the church here in the village. We must also support our good economy, our good gastronomy here, because it also supports us in our efforts to label our consumers so that our consumers can be safe. Of course, we also want to see that we can also find ourselves on a menu in the future: Comes the cattle with one, from me, AMA biosigns from a region where also the gastronomic farm is located – or comes from any country where we cannot say how the animal is fed, such as the The animal is kept and what origin is the animal at all?
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24459	Mr Delegate Dr. Pirklhuber now speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24480	Yes, it is really a very good sign that there is a common initiative here today. And Mr Maier is quite right, he has always been very active in these things over the last few years, and that is also grateful. Mr Tamandl said it right: This misguided advertising is a fact. She mentioned an example. And this will be the strain and the nail sample, Mr. Federal Minister: In two, three things, you'll see how it'll really work. If you focus on labelling next year, you will be able to do so: Yes, error is quite common on the market in one sector or another. I would also like to mention the problem of the AMA seal. Mr Schenk rightly referred to this, namely the question: What do people expect? Now you need to know that the AMA is very probably also in motion – and that would also be a plea on all sides –: There is now also a genetic engineering-free rail in the AMA meat and milk sector. But then a little bit of confusion begins. If there is, and besides, with and without genetic engineering, it will no longer be transparent for the consumer. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Singer.]] That is an example of how difficult it is then! And so to speak, we have to clean the table and say: Okay, what is a state - the AMA law behind it - signs? We have decisions in Parliament, we have an agreement, a consensus in society, also in agriculture. That's where we should finally start and say: AMA seal is of course free of genetic engineering! and position us in Europe. This is now an appeal to also perceive this opportunity to implement non-genocidal feeding in this sector. Mr Federal Minister, where are other things that are really very interesting if we manage to take a step forward? – This is, for example, the question of origin for unprocessed products at European level. So, please, this is the central question for two sectors of the economy, namely agriculture in the narrower sense, the food industry anyway, and also for development policy. Because that's the dilemma: If you can process everything that is produced in any situation, in the European Union without quality assurance, and can then give the impression that it has already been produced in Austria and is nevertheless an Austrian food – as we have discussed it more often – then it is obvious that deception is done in the classical sense. This problem is to be solved in Europe, which is also to be discussed at European level, and with this request you have the opportunity to say: Okay, the Austrian Parliament says, yes, this is a matter, we want to carry it! and you have the full backing of Parliament with this request that you play this issue quite offensively in your area at European level. This is already a necessity, because food safety policy can no longer only be achieved regionally, to design locally. The markets are given, these are European markets, and here you are also called on to set the appropriate impulses here – and I hope you will do so too – and also to deal with the relevant specialist bodies and to act accordingly in the forums for these things. A colleague addressed the genetic engineering issue regarding EFSA, the European Food Safety Agency. This agency is still a pure lobbying facility, and we must say that quite clearly. That's what you're supposed to be doing in public. We are required to maintain the criticism of EFSA – we have done so in recent years, and we should not let it go. At the same time – and this is really an important point – I believe that this also means supporting and strengthening risk research in Austria in a positive sense. There are some points of approach in the government programme still in my ears, but nothing has happened to this day. That's already a point where I hope you'll come up with something next year. And, of course, the whole question of the scam products, the imitation: I mean, scam products are a classic problem anyway, if you give the impression that that would actually be a classic cheese or that would be meat, and it's actually only inferior. To regulate this in the code would also be something that should be done at international level – as a first step in the Austrian food code, but the Codex Alimentarius is an international rule, and here too it would be nice to go further and say that this must be looked at internationally. Summa summarum today is a small step in the right direction. It will be decisive whether the next year will succeed in really making nails with heads. I hope you will take advantage of this opportunity to strengthen Parliament's back, and I am pleased that this request can be agreed together today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24559	Mr Lipitsch is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24581	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The expectation of us as consumers of information on food is increasing. We want to know the origin, the nature, the mode of production, but also the nutritional and health values when purchasing. Especially the origin of raw materials and their processing, the freshness, ethical values, the environment and also animal husbandry influence more and more purchasing decisions of our citizens. To present all these information requirements clearly and clearly to consumers is a difficult task, with food labelling – which is already true today – being harmonised across the EU, but voluntary labelling models on a national basis, which take into account the above-mentioned consumer requirements, are permitted. It is important to introduce a cross-sectoral, comprehensive quality mark law, which includes, in particular, food, here. It is necessary that the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the Ministry of Health, Economics and Social Affairs, discuss the draft of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is currently under this Code of Quality, in order to anchor the field of food in this law. The aim must be to make it clear to consumers when buying, for fresh products, for semi-finished products, but also for finished products, which is what they put in their wagerl and what they actually get for their money. It is also true, however, that our behaviour is changing more and that the out-of-house consumption is increasing. That is why it is necessary to define clearly and clearly what the customer receives and what is contained in these products, especially in the commercial sector, but also in canteens and especially in the delivery services. I believe that much is included in this joint proposal, and I believe that all five parties can live with it. If understandable information is provided to and controlled by consumers, this increases confidence in the high quality of our food industry, but also in the high quality of our gastronomy. But in particular it highlights the excellent products of our farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24626	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24647	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Shyking ham, analog cheese and what else will happen to us – you don't know yet; maybe sometime chicken soup from the plastic hendl. Slowly it turns the stomach around to the Austrians. I have said this before, and I am glad and proud that it was a free initiative regarding the analogue cheese in the spring of this year, which has now led to the completion of a sum of applications for labelling. But I'm convinced that's not the end. You get the impression – to get back a bit back on the health debate from before – that it would be better for some foods to make them recipeable than they just offer about the trade. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact is: If you look at the labels and the ingredients, you would already need a higher quality chemistry study as a consumer in order to get on with what is really in it and what this food really achieves for an effect. I believe and I am convinced that we will probably get to the point where we need to mark the trade chains or the department stores: Who conducts healthy products, who really conducts natural products, and who, so to speak, only leads more edible goods? I think we should really reach out to our farmers, our prime food producers, the original food producers and, so to speak, try to force Ab-Hof sales there et cetera. All of this is better than these scam products, than these marked goods, where I believe that at some point we will have to discuss the ban. I am convinced that we will be flooded with products that could no longer be artificial. And it would be a pity for this beautiful country to all of us when we become dependent on such things, where the industry fills the plates and no longer the farmer or the farmer. In this sense, let me close with a call from Luke, chapter 15, verse 23: “Let’s eat and be happy!”
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24693	Mr Obernosterer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24714	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After listening to my previous speakers, I have to say that we all want the same thing: a clear label so that the consumer knows what he is buying and so that he is not unsure. Only I had to realize when I heard each one again that everyone has a different access to it. I myself would like to deal with the topic of food labelling in the gastronomy, which includes some of the proposals. I see here a great opportunity, especially for domestic products, for the products of our farmers, for organic products, to simply give them more value. The proposal says within it that we should draw up a positive labelling system, and I think there will still be a lot of discussion in order to bring it all together into a denominator. Because at the beginning Mr Deimek said what a family who goes to the inn actually expected there, I can say: I'm a host, and I know what the guest is waiting for. And I know certain food cards abroad with a star, two stars, three stars and four stars, and we know exactly that basically with this marking the problem cannot be solved. I believe it is necessary not to label a hundred products that have any substances inside that are not so healthy, but I believe that it is simply important, especially in the area of gastronomy and hospitality, to clearly identify those products that come from domestic agriculture and where there are no genetic resources attached. I think that when we go in the direction of positive labelling, the consumer is much less unsure so that we can put our domestic products and the products of our farmers much better or more in the shop window. By the way, we also know the problem of bureaucracy. That is what we are talking about over and over again, especially when it comes to commercial matters. Mr Linder, the tourist speaker from the BZÖ – he is watching the Internet and doesn't listen to me – will be obliged to do so. [[Abg. Linder: Well!]] I think it is important – as we have discussed this at this speaker's desk several times – that there is a special solution for the small innhouses and the small cabins, that they are left to a certain amount of revenue in the voluntary way and that they begin with the commitment wherever they go practically into the industrial sector. It is not my job now to put on the table a final proposal here, but I am really happy and I also strongly believe that with many discussions a clear directive will bring the economy, as I said, its benefits and its safety to the consumer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24749	Mr Dr Spadiut has now been reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24772	Madam President. Minister! High house! In recent times, it has to be found more and more that different foods are being properly abused. Due to incorrect or insufficient labelling, it is often no longer possible for consumers to recognize which product it was produced from which country it came from. There are analog cheeses, cuddly hams, ice cream substitutes, imported meat from abroad, which has been treated with harmful substances, and so on and so on. We have a very strict food law in Austria. Through countless strict controls, local producers do not have the slightest chance to market products different from the legal provisions. It is therefore essential to protect consumers from foreign products that are not sufficiently and incorrectly marked. An example is the analog cheese. All foods differing from the standard must be marked exactly, ingredients must be identified, the origin must be clearly recognizable. The ban on the production of soft hams and the sale of confectionery hams required by the FPÖ is not feasible, as there is no health risk due to this product; therefore it cannot be prohibited either. There is no need for me to see, among other things, the use of the countless seal of quality that exists in Austria. The consumer is no longer able to find himself because of the inconsistency. A reduction of the seal of quality and a general labelling should be carried out. In addition, a change in the designations should be considered. Such a problem exists, for example, in the analogue cheese. Although this analogue cheese is miles away from the usual cheese, it is called ‘ cheese’, which often leads to confusion. There is no analog butter either, but that is, “Margarine. ” We should consider another name. Perhaps our committee chairman, who is very creative, will have the same word. Ladies and gentlemen, we protect consumers by precise labelling of our products!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24815	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24840	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has just claimed that there are too many seal of quality in Austria. - This statement is wrong. There are only two seal of quality in Austria. What he means is word-image marks and similar eves that are suitable for misleading and deception.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24870	Now comes Mr Mag. Gaßner to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24891	Madam President. Minister! Right next to Jacky Maier: That is why it is necessary to finally get a proper seal law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a quote. The Minister for Agriculture has told the “weekly magazine” that the consumer needs to expand its part even further, for he is the strongest partner for the Austrian farmer. He decides with his daily grip on the shelf what the future of agriculture looks like. - Quote. To be perfectly correct and absolutely underscored – however, it is becoming increasingly difficult for consumers to make these right decisions! I do not quite understand why the Minister of Agriculture or his officials withdraw from the working group which the Minister of Health has called to develop a law of quality marks. I am still incomprehensible in this regard. It goes on to say that the Minister of Economic Affairs, who was there too, is commissioning a separate code of quality marks, in which all possible products are described and regulated, but not the food! So the consumer has nothing to do with this proposal either. It is high time, ladies and gentlemen – and this has been welcomed by the public today – that this five-party proposal finally leads to a common seal law, if we really want to achieve that our consumers know what they are buying, because they do not know by the AMA seal. I happened to find an example of this: The name of this product is “Gring pleasure”, the finest butter with olive oil. It's wearing the AMA seal, but I can't imagine the olive oil coming from Austria. [[Abg. Hornek: Is it an olive oil with butter or butter with olive oil?]] With olive oil, please, here, Mrs Schönpass says it is excellent. [[the speaker holds a note with the image of the said product in height]] But: The consumer thinks it's an Austrian product – and that's only part of it, and that must be on it! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] But it is as if the olive oil came from Austria as well. So the AMA seal is also worthy of improvement.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24940	Mr Jannach has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e24973	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Mr Gaßner is absolutely right, the controls must be, because it is ultimately about the protection of consumers. We discussed this in the committee, and I should like to thank the nice lady of the Chamber of Workers Vienna once again, who has worked out this convolut on the seal of goodness – great praise! – which really gives an overview of how many stamps of quality or word-image marks, as Mr Maier said, are actually there. Here we really need action. All probably know the verified sign for Austria, this red-white-red “A” with the letter “Austria” in the middle. Each individual consumer assumes that the products are native origin. If this “A” is on a product, the consumer believes that the product is native origin. This is “Austria quality marks for products and services of Austrian origin”. That's the name of this sign of goodness that each one of us knows. Everyone assumes that they are domestic products, but it is possible that a product with this quality mark comes only 50 percent from Austrian agriculture. The former Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour has issued this quality mark or word picture mark, stating that the product has to come only 50 percent from domestic agriculture. – It would be time to review this quality mark once, because that is a conscious consumer deception. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] Because everyone here has spoken about the need for controls, the controls of the quality marks: I do not think that much will come out of the controls of the quality marks, as necessary. I think most of the companies that use these word-image brands as advertising scams work properly anyway. They will also be checked, and that will be confirmed. So it will not change much in this area. I can get a lot from Gabriel Obernosterer's proposal that we need a positive identification. We will be more able to identify products that have 100 percent Austrian quality, exclusively from domestic production, than to fight this rage of quality marks in any large form. Of course, it would be our wish – because of which we have made a request in this regard – that this large number of quality marks should come to an end. If I imagine what biosigns there are in Austria – “better organic”, “bio harvest Austria”, “bio farm brand”, “bio suisse”, “bio food”, “bio+ more than enjoyment!”, “biofish”, “bioforce”, “biocircle”, “bioland”, “bioland”, “bio-agricultural Ennstal” and so on – then I can only say that no consumer can know. The five-party proposal, which is being decided today, is a step in the right direction, but I would urge you, Minister of Health, but also the Minister for Consumer Protection, to create safety for consumers in this area. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[22:00]] [[22:00:47]] The vote will be taken at
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25034	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Written Committee Report 414 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 58.) We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Consumer Protection, its report 416 d.a. to take note of this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the proposal from the Committee on Consumer Protection, its report 417, d.b. to take note of this. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the proposal from the Committee on Consumer Protection, its report 418, which is the case. to take note of this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[22:02:04]] 29. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment No 231/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues with regard to the labelling of meat with the A-steple (415 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25113	We'll get to the 29th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25143	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is in keeping with what we have just discussed at the previous item on the agenda. What does a consumer think when he sees the A stamp? – He does not distinguish between seal of goodness and word-image marks, he naturally thinks that this product, that this meat comes from Austria. The fact is, however, that pigs and beef are transported to Austria on a weekly basis, often under incredible suffering for the animals concerned, although there is sufficient quality meat available from local farmers here in Austria. The consumer believes that when he buys this meat, he buys meat from Austria. The fact is, 50 percent of value added must be done here in Austria in order to get this stamp. That means that the animal has to be slaughtered here in Austria. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to support animal welfare, if we want to strengthen our domestic farmers and stand for them, then we must actually reconsider this label because we ourselves are ultimately harming ourselves if we also cheat in this way. Austria has the great happiness of being able to resort to an intact nature, to farmers who are willing to produce naturally and to buy more costs for it. It is therefore only right and reasonable that there is a fair and clear label so that consumers who may be willing to spend more money in order to support regional agriculture can also decide clearly what they are buying by means of a clear label. Ladies and gentlemen, there was an interesting format in ORF a few years ago; It's called "Made in Austria". I spoke on this in a committee, and at the time, I think, Mr Schüssel, I meant to decide on a request that we ask the ORF to resume this transmission format, it is not acceptable because politics does not interfere with the ORF. [[Call the FPÖ:Since when?]] – You can now assess how you want, I believe that we are well advised – if there is a possibility of influence on the ORF, which is claimed by many – but try to re-establish such or similar format.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25175	Mr Hell has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25196	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Right ahead: We reject this today's decision-making process. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In principle, however, I say: We are happy to deal with good requests from the opposition parties. However, we must reject this request, and I would like to justify it with a few sentences. The origin of their food is very important to Austrian consumers. National and regional products are clearly preferred. What consumers actually want and combine with food from Austria is a recent study carried out on behalf of the so-called Ministry of Food. Products from Austria are perceived as safe in terms of production, processing and quality. Furthermore, this study states that the Austrians want clear markings, and – whatever came out – the majority of Austrians also know the AMA Gütezegel and connects Austrian origin and quality. The confusion for consumers is currently the variety of signs and seals in food labelling, as already explained in the previous discussion. In Austria, the quality stamps and the around 200 brands are often confused and mixed in terms of content. The A stamp shall be affixed as a control mark in connection with a health certificate by the veterinarian in the slaughterhouse, but shall not be an element of food labelling, but shall be a control mark as part of the quality control of meat. The stamp mentioned above is thus a health certificate issued by the veterinarian in the respective slaughterhouse – and in the case of problems it can be traced back to which slaughterhouse and which veterinarian has released a particular meat as edible. If this was in an Austrian slaughterhouse, the code begins in the health mark with A, followed by the approval number of the slaughterhouse. Legally, this application is neither feasible nor useful in making a health mark a designation of origin. Ladies and gentlemen, making the A stamp an element of food labelling does not make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25263	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25284	Madam President. Minister! I'd like to advance: It is essential to ensure that only meat from bovine animals that have grown up in Austria and have been fed in Austria may be marked as meat from Austria. I would like to say to Mr Hell that his entire echoing over the A-stamp was pointless, because this A-stamp will be abandoned at the end of the year. [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] This A-stamp is then no longer available; at the end of the year it will be deleted without replacement. Then there is only the oval EU stamp, and on this is the number of the slaughterhouse and the number of the meat investigation body. This makes it easy for control bodies to understand where the meat comes from, but this is not understandable for the consumer. We will nevertheless agree with Mr Hofer's request, but not because of the A-stamp, but because it is absolutely necessary to create a label that ensures the designation of origin from Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25328	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25350	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! A bit of confusion exists here today, too, about this health stamp, which is an oval EU stamp – my predecessor is right – and which can not only be found on meat, meat products and meat products, but also on milk and milk products. Now I have brought myself an extra food to show it here, and have marked the sign green; normally it is only kept in black and white. It's a little thing like that. [[The speaker holds a cheese pack in the height and indicates a symbol depicted on it.]] I really can't imagine that this helps to insure and confuse people so much, because on all products there are many more signs to be found than this little thing on the back! That's why I think there's a lot to be interpreted here, which is just not there. It is really just a sign that guarantees the hygiene standards that were given in the processing and production of this product and that simply guarantee that it is suitable for consumption. That's really not the point! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I sometimes think that consumers are much better oriented when it comes to food, that they also know themselves, and at least in some of the seal of goodness they really know what it is about. This includes, of course, the AMA seal of quality, which has a high level of awareness. Even though it has already been said today that so much is interpreted in, which is not present: It's exactly what it has to say! When I think of the AMA seal of quality – 95 percent of Austrians know it, and 63 percent of Austrians know the AMA biomark – then it says that the value-determining raw materials must come from Austria and must also be processed and processed domestically. This is the AMA seal of goodness. Valuable raw materials, that is, of course, may come from other countries. – This is because it was mentioned earlier that there is butter with olive oil. If the value-determining raw material comes from Austria, this product can very well carry the AMA quality seal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's a well-controlled seal of goodness! Many independent test sites are involved in constant control. The Austrians can access these products with great confidence, because they also know that they actually buy Austrian products. It's Austria on it, it's clear to everyone. Now, if I can talk a little bit about the AMA seal: For 15 years, the Austrians have relied on it for 15 years. 540 licensees, 1 300 farms in the agricultural sector and 10,000 contracts with farmers are available within the framework of the AMA Quality Seal. This AMA sign can now be found on 3,000 articles. That is to say, it is really widespread, and of course the consumers know what they buy when they buy a product on which this seal of quality is on it. Therefore, my appeal is that after the expiry of the Quality Regulation by the end of 2009 and with the knowledge that new regulations need to be created, this AMA quality seal will definitely also have to play a role. It must not be possible to find it on the products for the Austrians: AMA seal of goodness, AMA biosigns. Of course, Mr Pirklhuber, there is still a lot to be expanded, which is quite possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25418	Mr Pirklhuber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25439	It's about the health mark, you've done it quite correctly anyway. It's just like: In the meat sector, it is in practice more a fraud mark. [[Call the ÖVP: Why?]] – Because it leads to error, simply in communication, and there you see how it works practically: As soon as a battle stamp is on it, it is half aware, I say, and then simply an Austrian product. It has been slaughtered in Austria anyway, in an Austrian slaughterhouse. I am telling you – and this is what the new Green Report says – that 62 000 cattle have been imported in 2008, 62,000 slaughter cattle, and this has only increased so much since 2005. [[Abg. Grill: And how many are exported?]] In 2005, there were five to six bovine animals, and in a few years there has been a real import of slaughter cattle. [[Abg. Grill: Mr Pirklhuber, how many are exported?]] It is slaughtered in Austrian slaughterhouses, will receive a health mark in the future, and then apparently the question arises: What's this? – From the Czech Republic and so on, so across, mainly the Czech Republic. [[Abg. Riepl: Where do they come from?]] [[Abg. Grill: And how much is exported?]] [[Call to the ÖVP:And how are they sold?]] – Look, Mr Grillitsch, it’s not about how much is exported. The first step is to: Is the sources of misunderstandings penetrating? – In the milk sector, I would rather rule out this, because I give colleague Hellererer right; in the meat sector it is different. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is why I think we should discuss this seriously and look at it next year on the issue of food labelling control. In the case of the “routine control” and the check according to the Food Labelling Regulation, we should take a closer look at whether it is precisely this way that manufacturers do not make foreign beef a high-quality Austrian special beef, namely in the engagement. [[Abg. Grill: The ratio is one to six, Mr Pirklhuber!]] That's misleading, and that's what it's all about. Especially the meat industry has repeatedly shown that it is capable of anything. We know this from various scandals, not only in Austria, but throughout Europe. That is also the point, and in this respect Mr Hofer is quite right: Of course, this could have been discussed at the previous item on the agenda. But I think it is quite right to highlight this aspect of meat labelling. To that end, we will continue to pay our attention to this proposal and to this strategy. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Then agree!]] We hope, Minister of State, that you will also take a very close look at this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25567	Mr Vock is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25588	Madam President. Minister! High house! Where Austria insists, only Austria should be inside, whether this is a word mark, a pictorial mark or a quality label. For example, wherever “Austria” or “Austria” stands – it is incomprehensible to me that this word is not protected! Why can a newspaper simply call itself “Austria ”? – The words “Austria” and “Austria” must simply be protected for the people who have quality from Austria. Trade makes it easy, he says: There is the AMA seal of quality, which is a certain quality mark; there are several other quality marks and quality markings. [[Abg. Hornek: But not “Freedom Party”!]] He's doing the last thing, and I think that's positive. Why are there so many signs of goodness and seal of goodness? – Only because the consumer pays attention to it because he buys accordingly. That is, the consumer assumes that the animals have grown up in Austria, that the Austrian Animal Protection Act has been complied with and that the animals have of course been slaughtered here in Austria. But true at the end is only the last point: It has been slaughtered in Austria. This is also reflected in the Green Report, which I presented in May 2009 on the occasion of the Green Report. The import of bovine animals has been quadrupled from 1999 to 2007, in eight years, and the import of pigs from 1999 to 2007. The export of beef is plus 20 percent, and the export of pork has even been for forty times. It must be said that this is not only a fraud against Austrian consumers, it is also, at the end of the day, a fraud against foreign consumers. He buys Austrian quality, and that's not it at all! The suspicion is that these animals are slaughtered only in Austria to obtain this seal of quality, the Austrian seal of quality. It must not be fooled by Austrian consumers, nor by foreign consumers. Where Austria insists, Austria must also be inside!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25625	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Consumer Protection to take note of his report 415 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[22:19:13]] 30. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment No 723/A(E) by Mr Gabriele Tamandl, Mag. Johann Maier, Sigisbert Dolinschek, Wolfgang Zanger, Mag. Birgit Schatz, colleagues concerning the prohibition of the use of UV irradiation equipment by children and adolescents in solarium (sun studios) (468 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25688	We arrive at the 30th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25719	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As simple as sun tanking at the push of a button is, it's dangerous as it is. Therefore, it is good that we today follow European examples – such as Germany, Italy and France – and also in Austria prohibit the use of plants for irradiation of the skin with artificial UV radiation for children and young people. There are a number of international medical examinations, in technical directions, which come to a clear and the same results and all confirm the danger of these technical devices. A study in the UK shows that melanoma is the most common type of cancer in women between the ages of 20 and 30, and it is also interesting that the increase in cancers is proportional to the solarian visit of the same group. It is also reflected in the studies that among 30-year-olds of solarian users, there is a 75 percent higher risk of cancer. The president of the Austrian Society of Dermatology, Professor Pehamberger, also reports that in Austria about 2,000 people suffer from black skin cancer each year and that there are 300 to 400 deaths a year, as well as that white skin cancer is the most common cancer in us, with an annual increase of 7 to 10 percent. The UV rays are whether they are natural or artificial rays, all harmful to human skin, and they work in multiple ways. They are directly affected by skin damage, by burns of the skin, and they work in the form of weakening the immune system and thus weakening the body's own cancer protection. Measurements on various devices abroad and with us confirm that in almost all devices the radiation intensity is too high, that it is much too high for a large number of devices and that the equipment works almost all in the sunburn area. The application will therefore, as mentioned, be a ban on children and young people. According to this application, the evaluation of the protection rules will also be provided for. This will give rise to the possibility to also explain misconceptions, such as that it makes sense to use a solarium before a holiday starts, but this only leads to the skin being exposed to an additional radiation dose. Or it is attributed to the solarium a prevention against depressive moods; even for this there is no confirmation from a pharmacological point of view. [[Call the SPÖ: Time!]] However, it makes sense to take subjective feelings seriously to show possible and effective alternatives that are undoubtedly available through sports, medically through medications or on a plant basis, alternatives that are harmless and that are to be brought into people's consciousness. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Riepl]] Today's decision will give us the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25760	Mrs Hellererer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25782	Madam President. Federal Minister! At the push of a button, take a sunbath, which for some belongs to the weekly fitness program. [[Abg. Krainer: Petzner is...!]] However, one must always be aware that this passage into the solarium can also be associated with side effects, especially if one spends too many minutes on the sunbed and if one is also exposed to natural solar radiation. [[Oh-noise in the direction of the just entering the hall. Petzner.]] All together, of course, can significantly increase the risk of skin cancer. In young people, in particular, there is a risk that if they consume UV radiation in excess, they may have a tumor disease in later life. There are people who work outdoors and have their jobs there, including farmers. These people are then also exposed to a special UV radiation. This was worth a study by the farmers' social insurance institution, which together with the head of the study, university professor Dr. Harald Maier of the University Hospital for Dermatology in Vienna, she conducted a study on UV taxation and UV-induced health damage in the rural population of Austria. This study has produced particularly interesting results. There were 386 farmers from 35 to 50 years of age who were opposed to a control group of 107 office workers. It was found that the skin of the agricultural group is pre-eldered to that of the control group, that vascular enlargements and pigment shifts have occurred, in particular in the sun-exposed areas, such as at the backs, necks and head, and that farmers have also experienced more actinic eye damage. But it was particularly striking – and that was actually against any expectation – that there were no significant differences in the frequency of light-induced skin tumours between the agricultural group and the control group. However, all the subjects were also questioned about their lifestyle, and it was noted that farmers go less frequently in solaria, that they do not spend their holidays in the south, that they do less outdoor sports and that they also protect their body trunk at work, whereas the internal workers consciously expose their bodies to the sun during leisure, so that sun-related skin changes were also detected on the body of the subjects of the control group. That is to say, it is very clear that sun exposure in conjunction with the use of solarium leaves significant effects and that in people who are constantly working in the sun, and in those who work indoors, there are hardly any differences when they are exposed unprotected to the sun's rays and in addition to the UV rays in solaria. Especially children and young people who stay outdoors in leisure and sometimes also work unprotected there can obtain a multiple dose of the sunburn producing UV during this time. If there is still an improper UV load in the solarium, then of course there is a corresponding concern. In this sense, we support this proposal and, of course, we will continue to ensure that it is handled carefully with the sun and solarium in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25824	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25856	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! This proposal has two points which are important and interesting. The first is that with the warning and protection regulations. No, without the rule of play, without warning of dangerous conditions, it is not possible! - That's one. The second point – and this is the much more interesting – is that we prohibit the use or use of these facilities for our children and young people. Now I've heard: Well, aren't you a little overregulative? Is that what we want? Do we want to ban everything? We forbid the children to smoke up to a certain age. We also forbid them to drink, because this is simply necessary for the healthy development of children. Why should we now, if we know exactly what medical effects, what pathological effects this has, allow children? – It would be pointless, and if we were to take our job here today seriously as a legislator, we would have to secure our children completely and comprehensively. This also depends on the protection in these solariums and from the plants and rays. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But who now protects Petzner?]] How the damage to adults we do not, of course, look comprehensively protected, can be seen in nature; Mr Matznetter goes straight to that. I would, however, like to focus on the children, and in this sense this is a good request, which we also want to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25891	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25912	Madam President. Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard a lot about this joint motion today, which we also support. [[Abg. Where is Westenthaler?]] We will therefore support it because it protects young people because it protects children and young people and there are relevant studies that may lead to health problems. Countries such as Germany, France, Spain, Portugal and parts of Italy have already implemented similar measures and are pioneers. Austria is following this request. In Germany, the ban on young people is valid until 18 August this year. For me, the question arises where the border is now being drawn from age. You can smoke with 16 in Austria, you can drink alcohol with restrictions, you can choose at the age of 16. Perhaps you should also use this age limit at the ban. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, apart from this, we must also, of course, ensure that the existing provisions concerning the strength of the UV tubes used are complied with and that solarian operators carry out appropriate information on health risks. What surprises me – and I have already said this in committee – is a brochure from the Vienna Chamber of Commerce, which advertises the use of solarium with young people and for young people. [[The speaker will keep up-to-date brochure.]] This is in total contrast to the studies that have been carried out and which demonstrate clear health damage. I would like a statement perhaps also in the course of the debate here as to how this brochure has come and how this is justified. In principle, it should be said that prohibitions alone are not the all-healer and do not raise awareness of the risk. However, we are in the interest of young people for this request, in the interests of our young people's health. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25961	Now comes Mrs Mag. Honey to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e25982	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kaipel has presented the background to this request very comprehensively. At the heart of this request, it is about the harmful influence of UV rays on the human skin, and it should be stressed that artificial UV rays have a much more negative effect. Unfortunately, this health risk is clearly underestimated by a large number of people. However, the fact is that the international cancer research agency belonging to the WHO has definitely announced this summer that the regular visit of solarian with cancer risk level 1 should be declared as clearly carcinogenic. I would like to stress that studies have also shown that there is a particularly high risk for people under 35 years of age. The risk is 75 percent higher. It is therefore particularly necessary to protect young people from UV radiation in solarium, because obviously awareness-building measures that have taken place very intensively in recent years do not benefit. However, it is also clear – and I would like to add this to the colleague's remarks – that a ban on the use of solarium for children and young people is not the final conclusion of wisdom. On the one hand, one cannot prove children and adolescents with bans, on the other hand, but ignore the fact that there is a very high risk for all solarian users. However, my conclusion is another: I think this ban is a first step, but in the medium term it is necessary to think of similar measures for adults as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26018	Next speaker: Mr Steier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26040	Madam President. Federal Minister! No access for children and young people! so it could soon be called in solarium and sun studios for young people up to 18 years. An initiative adopted unanimously by all parties calls for this. Now the Minister of Economic Affairs is on the train to create the relevant legal regulations. Why the ban on solar energy should apply to this age group was already justified by my previous speakers. The fact is that UV rays for young skin are particularly harmful. The more sun children and adolescents get, the higher the risk of getting skin cancer as adults. According to German cancer aid, a person gets up to 18 years of age. Already 80 percent of the UV radiation of the entire life is 80 percent of the age. According to studies, the cancer risk increases by 75 percent if people before 30. Start your birthday with the use of solarium, because the skin does not forget and invisible damage can cause skin cancer 30 years later. The popularity of solarium especially among young people lies in the usual ideals of beauty. Tanned skin stands in our culture for healthy, active, powerful and holiday spoils. Of course, the risks of too much sunlight, whether natural or artificial, are known, but dangers are simply suppressed. Skin doctors say that in 50 sunbaths a year the limit for the skin of Central Europeans is reached – whether the sun comes from the sky or from the tube. That must be the message to be brought more strongly to the man and the woman – whether it's cool for young people who find the browns, or for adults who often bubble in high-risk areas of radiation. The ban on solarium for young people under the age of 18 will only be the right means if the implementation is controlled accordingly and if a comprehensive education in school helps to develop risk awareness, namely that frequent sunbathing in solarium, skiing or on holiday will affect our skin account as well as acute burns in a sunburn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26079	Mr Faul is now speaking. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26100	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am very happy about this unanimity today, although I am very surprised that the BZÖ is also in agreement today. Your whole image, the cracker and maker image comes to large parts from the retorte, from the solarium. Nevertheless, there is apparently also insight. I always imagine what Stefan Petzner would look like with my natural autumn bubbles, grave blows. That wouldn't be so good for you! Mr Federal Minister, I would like, on the one hand, to comment on the regulation, on the other hand also on the possibility of execution. You should always look at things like this, how we're getting that over the ramp. Mr Deimek of the FPÖ has referred to this. Because Mrs. Schatz has been so excited about the advertising that the Chamber of Commerce makes, you have to ask: In like many other cases, we don't have advertising for sweets, for Coke, for Zackzag, and we can't defend them either, although we really know it hurts our children?- Oh, my God! I have a very special problem with event legislation. For example, laptops are applied, although we know how many today are computer addicts, Internet addicts. Today, the mobile phone is so advertised and already pushed into the hands of the youngest young people, although we know how harmful it is. I think back, ladies and gentlemen, as we have discussed about a single hunting accident, that we need to control the hunting more. In the case of a single gun murder, we have said that all weapons are abolished must. I was only surprised that we did not ban the bread knives after the robbery, after the Rat of the Mass in Hietzing. Now something serious to the end, my very dear ones Ladies and gentlemen: I understand everything about alcohol. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of BZÖ and ÖVP.]] If you know how many young people and adults today find death through suicide, much more than by car accidents, I don’t know if it would be an appropriate emergency measure if you were to sign all the bridges with “spent! ” These things should also be considered when it comes to psyche and human hygiene.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26155	Mr Petzner is now speaking. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26188	Madam President. Federal Minister! Roman Ravreider said I was Austria's most famous confessing solarium visitor. In that sense, I should also like to speak on this item on the agenda. I believe it is important, on the one hand, to say why the BZO also agrees with this request. [[Abg. Riepl: Westenthaler is not here!]] This is because we want to protect young people in particular, but at the same time the principle of individual responsibility, individual freedom, is very important to us – read our positions of principle! – and we want to reconcile both. That is why we are also saying yes to a ban on solarium for children and young people, as proposed. I would like to clarify this one biterl and suggest, up to the age of 16, against the background that you can choose and smoke at the age of 16 and have sexual contacts at the age of 14. Then why not visit a solarium from 16 years on? That would be our concrete suggestion in this area. From 16 onwards, it is free whether you want to go to the solarium or not. I myself am the living proof that solarium can also be healthy. I should also like to mention some of the advantages of solarium. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: The side effects are also important!]] The solarium results in an increased vitamin D emission. The solarium is brightening in the cold season. And if I look at Mr. Hundstorfer and his eyerings, I'm saying, He would not be harmed by some solarium visit if he already wanted to become SPÖ chief. Madam President, Mr Prammer may also be able to visit a solarium, and I can also offer consultations there. I must also insist that the issue of solariums – if I may be allowed to make the consultation in a concrete way – is that we have to look at which devices it is concerned. There are better and worse, the best company that offers this is the company Ergoline. Very recommended! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The second point is that you have to see which skin type you are. There are four different types of skin that also react differently to solaria. The third point is that it is always crucial how long you go to the sun studio or – fourth point – how often you go to the sun studio. [[Abg. Riepl: You stay three hours!]] 30 to 50 sessions per year are recommended. I think that's what I'm doing here for all those who might be interested. For us, as we have said, the protection of children, the protection of young people, but also the freedom of individuals. It's very important to us. I am also the proof of this, and I say: Everyone must feel comfortable in his own skin in the truest sense of the word. That's true of me, too. I insist that I like to go to the solarium because I like it, and that I also take the health risk against the background. It's similar to smoking. There are hundreds of thousands of smokers – Mr Pendl is also pipe smoker – and all know that this is unhealthy. Nevertheless, there are many smokers. So it is with the solarium. Perhaps I will also take Mr Cap with me to conclude by saying this, because he could also use some kind of solarium session. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26281	So far, I didn't know that the National Council's plenary was already being used for advertising events. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] No one is reporting on agenda item 30. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 468 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 59.) [[22:44:07]] 31. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment No 582/A(E) by Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek, Members and colleagues on the comprehensive consumer protection package (469d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26342	We're now on the 31st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Dolinschek. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26392	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. I am now also advertising, but on my own, for this comprehensive consumer protection package, which has been rejected by all the political groups in the Committee, because parts of it have already been incorporated into other applications. Nevertheless, our package, practically the anchoring of consumer protection in the judicial sector, provides for a transfer of the price reductions of energy prices for electricity, oil or interest-rate reductions to consumers, the control of sales and application of financial products and a transparent electricity bill. The latter has already been incorporated into the five-party proposal of the past. However, we also know that electricity prices for consumers increased by 5 percent in the previous year, while they fell by 8 percent on the international market. So this has practically had no effect yet. That is why, after this five-party proposal we have tabled, there is still a lot to do. The scrapping premium, which was already exhausted in July and which affected only the first 30 000 vehicles, is, of course, past. The car dealers, not consumers, actually have profited from the whole. You have to say that. Other things like bank fees – now there is a bank in Tyrol that even wants to calculate banknote fees – you have to put a bar on it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I doubt whether one can ban this in general in this area, but one should at least bring the design to the point that no one else comes to the idea of introducing a shelf fee in a self-service shop, so if you take something out of the shelf, a fee is also required for it, or at a gas station where you pay with bank card, a tank fee is required. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It mustn't come that far. We must act here in the interests of the consumer in order to stop this. That is why it is important for me to simply create transparency in this area, to require uniform markings of financial products in order to make them comparable with the nature of the product – savings book, bond, share, life insurance or other financial products – and the duration, exit possibilities and transferability. Of course, the same must also apply to insurance, where there is no transparency. There's still a lot to do. Consumer protection is a cross-sectional matter. I believe that this area would be much better removed in the Ministry of Justice, because then certain sanctions could go faster. In addition, it is necessary to verify whether the fees for the statutory annual account statements or for interest-change agreements are legally compliant in the banking sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26450	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26471	Mr Dolinschek, I would be right if you knew where you wanted to go. With you, it's like that once and for all. I cannot spare this comment. As you know very well, the consumer protection agents were located in the Federal Ministry of Justice under Black-Blue from 2000 to 2003. You yourselves were actually the ones who, at the time, pleaded that this had come to the consumer protection area under the Minister of Social Affairs Herbert Haupt. It is also surprising to me that Mr Dolinschek, the State Secretary responsible for consumer protection at that time, presented the proposal where he himself had the opportunity to say that it did not fit in. I don't know what to do at all. I am against this change, I say that quite openly, because I am also convinced, because of the cross-sectional nature of matter, that the agendas of consumer protection are in the best hands at the Minister of Social Affairs and his team at the Ministry of Social Affairs. Consumers can also rely on something to go on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You from the BZÖ have packed herb and beet in the one application, for example, as honourable Member Dolinschek himself said, ensuring price reductions in electricity and gas. All of this is inside, right up to the reduction in interest rates, but also the comprehensive control of the sale of financial products. This is quite, very important – especially when I look at this in the context of the consulting companies around the AWD. To address this point, I would like to point out that the 2 500 customers of AWD, the independent financial optimizer, as he calls themselves, have lost €65 million by dubious investment recommendations, for their consultants have also sold security-driven customers shares, which clearly conceal the risks or even presented shares as particularly safe. The suspicion, therefore, is that if the consultants did not consciously pass on misinformation – which they do not want to assume – they were simply poorly trained and have little to no professional knowledge, which is why the Association for Consumer Information on behalf of the Federal Minister has initiated a collective complaint which has been approved today – because you have said it is not yet available – before the Commercial Court in Vienna. This alone is certainly too little – as we do not have to think about it – so in December of the previous year we adopted a five-party proposal in which we asked the Federal Government to present a legislative proposal here in the House with the content of a comprehensive reform of the investment advisory professions. In the meantime, the Ministry of Finance, but also the Ministry of Economic Affairs, has written a project report to Parliament, but a comprehensive reform is far from that. But since I always get the impression that some, in order not to say many who are active in the financial field, pretend as if the crisis would not exist at all, and continue to wriggle as in the past, I really urge the competent ministries to submit quickly the required legislative proposal in order to finally give consumers more safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26522	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26544	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Dolinschek, former Secretary of State, responsible for consumer protection, seems to have put an early Christmas package there on the table, and someone must have opened it, because most of it is already gone, done away, for example, the scrapping premium, a topic that could already be done in July, positive for many who have come to a new car, positive for the economy. All the other points raised here are outnumbered by the one point, namely to settle consumer protection now in the Ministry of Justice. Dolinschek himself has said that this is a cross-sectional matter, and we know from the experience of the Committee, which all the ministers concerned in the agenda have repeatedly made themselves available to the Committee, whether that was the Minister of Health or whether the Minister of Justice was the minister of justice, whether all the other representatives were on the agenda. We have been looking for solutions, have found positive approaches, and have implemented them. I do not understand why there should now be a change towards the Ministry of Justice. For the transparency of the energy bill: Something's probably gone. There is already an initiative here, which we have in recent weeks and months in consumer consumption. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the It was even in the government agreement that we would use for it, and we used ourselves. We have succeeded in implementing a model calculation from 135 providers, which will be presented in 2010. The same applies to the reduction of energy prices. – Where is the colleague Dolinschek? He's gone now. He could ask in Carinthia! – It is the energy suppliers that are in demand here. There he is! He should take an example of Lower Austria. The energy supplier EVN has lowered gas prices in this year. So a Christmas package that arrived too late that someone else has opened, and I wonder why we're going to discuss it at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26586	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26607	Mr President. Federal Minister! This proposal on which it is now concerned is a comprehensive one; that is what the name already says. It is all possible inside packed, not only herb and beet, sensible and less meaningful points, and I would like to address some of them in detail now. On the point of anchoring consumer protection agents in the Ministry of Justice for better enforceability: As such, I believe that this is not the point when you say consumer protection is a cross-sectional matter. – Yes, there are things from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture inside, of course, the Gros is from the Ministry of Justice. To simplify it legislately, yes, but to enforceability I actually say no. To secure the point: That consumers benefit to the full from the scrapping premium, the issue has actually been eaten, because it could be seen in the proposal. To ensure that price reductions in electricity, gas and oil are passed on to consumers, as well as the reductions in interest rates, we will somehow not bring them together, because we cannot intervene so far in the companies that we can directly influence their costs, their production, their cost design and pricing. We are once in the free market economy. There are just certain things that we as legislators cannot change. We can provide a certain framework, but not everything. The fact that we want a transparent and consumer-friendly pricing system is clear, but please, as far as electricity and gas are concerned, the EVUs, the suppliers we actually have in the countries in our hands anyway. For the comprehensive control of the sale of financial products by AWD and similar companies: Well, we've actually put AWD on it before. Certain products they will not be able to sell. To sum up, this request is, even if it is still argued against... [[Abg. Haubner: This is an understanding question!]] Yeah, it's an understanding question. He is excellent from the point of view of BZÖ, but we say: This collectionurium has not deserved to be adopted, and we will also vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26648	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26671	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This request from the BZÖ contains demands of a very different kind, namely, a transparent consumer-friendly pricing system for electricity and gas, where it has already been mentioned that this is a positive one. However, there are also points in this proposal which we strongly support, namely ensuring that price reductions in electricity, gas and oil as well as interest reductions must be passed on directly to consumers. Unlike Mr Rädler, I do not believe that this is already guaranteed, but I think it is quite different from what Mr Deimek said that it is possible to make appropriate arrangements here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So this point fits for us, but then this thing is with the scrapping premium. I have already said it in committee: Apart from the fact that this action has already expired, the scrapping premium, which was intended as an economic promotion measure, is, of course, a perfect Fauxpa for us Greens, for environmental reasons. That is why we must reject this proposal. Let me briefly address the point with AWD. To this end, I would like to say that there is a resolution of December 2008 on this issue and that, as a result of this motion for a resolution, a report from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been sent to the Financial Committee, which has proposed concrete measures. However, I think it is urgently necessary that this proposal should not be adhered to, but that at last the bill required in the motion for a resolution should also be made. That is, I hope that we will move forward very soon, because it is necessary to prevent similar personal financial disasters, as they happened through AWD, in the future. But I believe that it is not enough for us to start only with the advice and with the consultants, but I think it is urgently necessary that we give consumers, investors and investors the opportunity to make their own decisions when it comes to selecting the right financial product. I therefore believe that it is necessary to create something like a quality mark or a clear system of financial products – Mr Dolinschek has addressed something similar today – and I have already made a request to do so. It is about the fact that certain key facts of products are clearly apparent in order to enable the consumer to make self-determined decisions and not to rely on consultants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26718	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Consumer Protection to take note of its report 469 of the supplements. If you give your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[23:00:01]] 32. Point First reading: Request by Mr Karl Oellinger, Members of Parliament, concerning a Federal Act amending the Pension Scheme Act (709/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26769	We're coming to the 32nd. Agenda item. Mr Karl Oellinger spoke with 3 minutes of desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26796	I know, ladies and gentlemen, the time is advanced, but in view of the fact that many, especially younger colleagues here in the House, have also taken part of their pension provision in pension funds, given the fact that many, not only Members but also mayors, have some of their renewed pension provision in pension funds, given the fact that many, namely more than 500 000 people in Austria, have now invested in both private and in this case occupational pension schemes, and that some of their wages have been invested by the company, it makes sense to lose at least a few words more than in the request. Because we had a debate in the couloirs about Hypo Alpe-Adria and the possible losses, I'm just saying: What threatens us at Hypo Alpe-Adria there – bad enough for Austria – is to be forgotten in terms of the losses of pension funds worldwide, mildly expressed. You have to imagine that 18 000 billion US dollars were invested in the pension funds in 2007 or, in other words, 18 trillion US dollars, and from 2007 to 2008 the capital of these pension funds in OECD countries fell by 5 000 billion euros. Destroy! $5,000 billion! But already in 2002 at the first or previous bubble, at the so-called Dot-Com bubble, there was a loss on the financial markets for these pension funds of $2,000 billion. So within a few years, $7,000 billion of old-age pensions have been destroyed by a total of about $18,000 billion and thus a good part of pension provision for people. If you break this down to individual fates, you can only say: A human being – there are enough examples – to whom a cash-in board of 300 € was promised and calculated, now receives, in 2009, instead of the promised 300 € 170 €. There are cases where this is even more drastic, where instead of 300 € there are only 130 €. These are dramatic losses. The pensions from the pension funds are not very high, and what we want to achieve with the application is simply one thing: that the people who had to invest in this pension fund, who do not have the opportunity – still not – to change, to take out their money, at least to get their money out of these pension funds, because when they put it on the savings book, they are better off than if this money remains in the pension funds for years or decades and they have to watch how their money is completely burned up or migrated from the institutions that are present into other channels.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26830	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26851	Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of pension funds is only one of the problems we have in the so-called capitalised pension insurance systems or even capitalised schemes. In the entire second and third columns, all products – pension funds, so-called handling-new, future provision-new – are hard under pressure, because in all three areas one struggles very, very much with whether they even hit a corner interest rate savings book. And in many areas it is already clear that the products do not make it, no matter in which area. In this respect, it is of course important that we here in the National Council look very closely at how we can improve all three systems, whether they are at all capable of improving and to what extent they are capable of improving, so that those objectives which have been set, or those expectations which have been placed in the capitalised systems, can be achieved at all. The point that has been raised here, namely the possibility of changing, I personally consider very, very important, because to create a functioning competition, a functioning market at all, there must be an exchange of views. That present situation... [[Abg. Scheibner: What about the capital guarantee?]] Capital guarantee for pension funds? Please excuse me, if I may remind you, you were here, I think, Klubobmann, when the minimum income guarantee was removed for pension funds. [[Abg. Scheibner: But I ask you!]] Now you have to make that up with yourself and your own conscience, why you deleted the minimum income guarantee at the time. This would have been even more than a capital guarantee. You were here to see Klubobmann. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Then introduce it again! My dear friend, you're all talking so well!]] Go, please! We have to take this very seriously, because here hundreds of thousands, millions of Austrians, 1.4 million people have invested in the prospect of the future, and today we see that the expectations that have been awakened are far from being fulfilled. By no means! [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and BZÖ.]] We need to take a closer look at how we are making the future provision-new and the entire products even future-oriented. I am only a little sorry that this comes to the Committee, because the other materials are all in the financial committee and there are pension funds, just because of their competence. It would probably be easier if that were to happen too, because then we could treat it together immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26938	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e26960	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A first reading will take place on a request from Mr Oellinger to amend the pension scheme. We have, as you know, agreed in the government programme to make an optimization of the pension fund system. There has been a working group in which the social partners and the elderly representatives have been involved, and it is now time to make a legislative proposal, on which the competent ministers, the Minister of Labour, but also, of course, the Minister of Finance, have also agreed. To your request: I think we should consider what it means now that all of us suddenly get out of the way and don't have to pay this pension on a monthly basis, with all appreciation and understanding of the concerns of the people who now have to suffer losses in this supplementary pension. [[Abg. Oillinger: That'll probably end up on a savings book!]] But if everyone were to opt out now and all this capital would be paid out, the performance would probably be much worse. When we look at the long-term average, we see that in recent years, since there have been pension funds, we have had 5.7 percent growth, and in 2008 we just had a loss of an average of 12.9 percent. [[Abg. Krainer: In recent years it has been only 1 percent!]] But we have always deserved good over the last few years, and I think we should think about how to do this in a legislative proposal – perhaps let me speak out! – can really optimize too, and then we wait for it. [[Calls for Greens]] I would also have liked us to deal with this with a draft law in the Financial Committee, because the experts are also sitting there, and then we could probably get even more on the way.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27029	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27050	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to begin by thanking all those who made their statement of support at the previous meeting of the National Council – the BZÖ, the Greens and ten representatives of the Socialist Group – in order to enable a constitutional court case for 2,500 victims. For this I would like to thank you once again because I believe that this was an important step in doing something for those who were harmed on this issue as well. Mrs Tamandl, you said: We deserved well!, you just didn’t say who “we” was. I would have been interested in who “we” really are now, for one thing is clear: We also need to talk about other points on this issue in the Committee. Mr Oellinger, we will, of course, agree with the request, but I am already looking forward to the lively discussions, because one cannot: that there is action in the public service where the employee is suddenly confronted with the sudden delivery of service providers' contributions to a pension fund – in this case the country Upper Austria – and that the employees are not asked and then suddenly received a letter that they are sorry with 1. January 2010 by 178 € less pension because the collapses in the capital market were unfortunately so strong. We also need to talk about it. There should no longer be such an approach in the future! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also need to talk about whether it is possible to find a regulation in any form – I am right for Mr Scheibner, we need to talk about it! – what opportunities we see as a legislative body to create liability in the event of such great losses. We also need to talk about why it is not possible at the moment to make a change in pension funds if we already know that the funds are not handled carefully. These are the hostage agreements that exist, and we can no longer afford to do so at present, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also need to talk about the possibilities to be granted to take out the money if we no longer have confidence in the institution. We also need to talk about it. What is possible at any other bank institution must also be possible with the pension funds, because only then do we have a means of printing for these ladies and gentlemen, so that they really deal with our money in the capital markets and that is not, as was the case in the past, connected with a moving eye. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying one more thing: We must pay particular attention to our life insurance. The evidence is increasing that the EU has taken an eye on our life insurance system. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if this happens that our life insurance system should be tilted by the EU, then we must create legal, legal opportunities in time to prevent it. This should also be discussed in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27102	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27123	Mr President. High house! If we talk about pension funds today, we also need to talk about where these profits come from. These are nothing but capital gains on the capital market. If someone turns to the speaker's desk and says that these revenues are risk-free, then he simply has no idea how money is generated on the capital market. If you want to look at the extreme form of pension insurance on the capital market, you have to look into the US. In the United States, we experience what happens when we leave the capital market in pension insurance. There are 30.40 per cent in pensions. [[Abg. Krainer: With us too!]] Our system was once a pure payment procedure. It is now becoming increasingly important to add a capital funding procedure, because it is simply not enough in the front and the back. You think you're going through the funding process. The reason why it no longer works in the charging process is ultimately because we are always working shorter. The current figures alone show: In the case of ÖBB, the average age at retirement is 51 years, in the case of post 53 years, in the case of Telekom 54 years, the average pension is 59 years, and in the case of women aged 65 or 60. That is to say, we do not need to change our pension system to a capital scheme in the long term, but we need to design it in such a way that it works in the long term. [[Abg. Silhavy: Who had the three-sau...?]] A pension expert, Mr. Marin, once said: If the payment process in an economy no longer takes place, it will not be possible for a long time in the capital recovery process. That means we need this payment procedure. We from the BZÖ have stimulated a pension account where it is that everyone can decide for himself when to retire. In other words, you can calculate at any time what amount of pension you can expect and decide for yourself whether you want to work at over 65 years and are not necessarily sent to pension. That is, one tries to create an incentive to work longer, but allows it to go earlier even if contributions have been paid accordingly. We will present this pension account in the next few weeks, which will be an exciting thing. It is crucial that we secure this payment procedure. All the experts tell us that the funding process will not work. It will not work because of demographic development or because of the developments that are foreseeable. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You have to explain this to Mr Scheibner!]] That is why, Mr Ikrath, you too: The charging procedure is not to be replaced, it is to be strengthened – and that to your address! I know you don't like to hear that, but that's a fact, and that's what we need to find out. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27186	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27208	Ladies and gentlemen! Because the SPÖ makes such self-congratulating calls: Mr Matznetter, I can remember darkly – the past is being suppressed – that you were also a certain time State Secretary – I think, even in the Ministry of Finance – without leaving any major traces behind! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You have little claim to make intermediate calls. In contrast to you, if we have made mistakes, I am so ready to admit mistakes. The withdrawal of the income guarantees was an error, as it turns out today. I admit that. But what have you done to correct these mistakes, except to criticize and make intermediate calls? - Nothing you've done! And even now there is no response to these losses that the pension funds have made. We have – honestly – put our trust in these institutions. Unfortunately, this trust was not justified. We know that there is also much too little control that could be controlled, how these charges are going on, how profits are told and then to whom they are awarded. [[Abg. May. Lap: You have introduced this!]] I have called in “Capital Guarantee”. Not even that would be enough, because we have already observed products, where there is a capital guarantee, where one is at the loss, but in the profits no longer, because they then make the money so conservative, that then 10, 15 years of the bank under the line has made money pointless. This should not be the objective of such measures either. Nevertheless – and here we stand –: The payment system for the state pension is important, but we need the second and third pillars also in the future to complement the pension system and guarantee it in the future. Finally, tell the young generation honestly that it will be difficult for the state pension alone to ensure an age of corresponding prosperity in 20, 30 or 40 years of today's youth! That would be honest, ladies and gentlemen, from the SPÖ, not to make calls, but to make an honest policy, even for young people! Admit errors where they are! Correct them, but above all, make sure that you do not speak populistly for the next elections and for your pensioners' organizations, but for the youth in this country, because this is our future!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27275	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27298	Mr President. If Mr Klubobmann comes to the speaker's desk at the time and says he can't remember, I do not agree with an excuse. You should know what you're doing! [[Abg. Scheibner: What did you do, Mr. State Secretary?]] Before the second reading, 2 minutes before the end, and 350 000 people who have paid off to take away the guarantee for their money from their pension, which meant that their savings on average 17 percent were removed with a dash, and then to say: [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you changed it?]] I apologise! and to ask straight away: Why didn't you put this back behind us again when you came to the government?, it's no way! I say one to you, Mr Scheibner: We have written in our government programme as one of the first points that we will try to improve it in this area. [[Abg. Scheibner: Nothing you've done!]] We now have a correction in preparation and preparation. It's just not that easy to correct this! You've done something we can't just break up now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] And so you ruled: You didn't think about what's going on tomorrow! Parts of pension provision have been taken away from people, and we can only try today to create voting rights, take the risk out and see that we get a better charge. [[New call for tender Cannon]] What you gave the banks never comes back! And that's not enough for a little excuse. You must make this up with the hundreds of thousands you took away the money with your speech, Mr Klubobmann. You'd better be ashamed of it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27374	No one is reporting on this. I agree with the proposal 709/A to the Financial Committee. [[23:21:31]] 33. Point First reading: Request by Mr Alois Graurur, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 16 December 1989 was adopted. June 1948 on the Court of Auditors (Rechnungshofgesetz – R.H.G. - 1948), BGBl. No. 144/1948, amended (734/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27414	We're coming to 33. Agenda item. Mr Grastaur is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27438	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This application concerns an amendment to the Federal Court of Auditors Act 1948. As you can recall, we have debated the 2007 federal accounts. It has been demonstrated that a error in the calculation of 2 billion € has occurred in the presentation of the federal liabilities for 2007. I claim: If the Court of Auditors had been able to verify these figures and figures, this error would not have occurred. Where's the problem? – This federal accounts account consists of two major parts, one of which is a number part, which is partly prepared by the accounting agency and the Federal Accounting Centre. There is a decimal error in the conversion of British pounds of €2 billion. You have to imagine that! This part of the figure then goes to Part 1 of the Court of Auditors and is presented here in the National Council. The Court of Auditors shall: "The evidence of liability will not at present be subject to an in-depth audit by the Court of Auditors. § 9 RHG, since they are not formally included in the accounts.’ The purpose of this amendment is to close an existing control gap and to establish the basis for reviewing the evidence of federal liability by the Court of Auditors. I can remind you that at the end of 2008 there were 176 billion euros of federal debt and 112 billion euros of federal liability. In these dimensions one can already assume that at least these numbers and numbers are calculated correctly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27483	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27505	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grastaur, it is also necessary to say that those who have made this conversion mistake have also come up with it themselves and corrected this mistake before it has even come to the House to deal with the clearance of the invoice. [[Abg. Neuhauser: But this is the minimum!]] Before we started the discussions, we had all the right numbers. - First of all. Secondly, we are currently dealing with budgetary reform in the Budget Committee. The clearance of accounts is part of the procedure, as we deal with budget and financial statements. We can also look at this and listen to what the Court of Auditors has to say about it and whether, given the new budgetary right, it is necessary to extend it at all. I would say that we are looking at this in the Committee on Budgets and will discuss it in a good climate, as always, in the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27539	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27561	Mr President. High house! I do not think that the extension of the auditing powers required in this request does not seem necessary for two reasons. First of all, Mr Colleague – and I may quote from your request here – calls for an annual proof of the state of debt and liability of the federal government. There is already the required evidence of the state of liability, and you can find it now in the annual federal accounts. So you're asking for something that already exists. Secondly, I assume – and you have also confirmed it – that you have also formulated your request because of this typing error. I can tell you, as my colleague Krainer did, that it was not a control gap in the Court of Auditors' law, but merely a typing mistake. In the meantime, this has been corrected. There are sufficient technical arrangements for such errors to cease to repeat. But I can also say: A football game took place today. Austria has clearly lost 5 : 1. The only good thing is that some gentlemen here in the first row and others today have not seen a good football game. I think it is actually a joke to the Parliament that we should be sent off for hours, that it is not worth the effort that we may not be devoted to points that are as urgent or only dealt with at first readings. [[Congratulation with ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ]] You'd rather be photographed in the VIP area. [[Abg. Riepl: The Westenthaler was in the stadium!]] [[Abg. Petzner: Members of all political groups!]] Perhaps the gentlemen should give back a little bit of their money! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27616	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27638	Mr President. High house! The purpose of this request is to enable the Court of Auditors to carry out control of the Federal Government's claims in the future. We welcome this. In addition, the Court of Auditors will also be obliged, with this request, to submit annually, together with the federal accounts, evidence of the state of the debts and liabilities of the federal government. This is also positive for us, because we believe that tax money, especially in the case of federal liability, which is now also due to the development of a bank, should have top transparency. However, I would like to take this request to remind you that we have received a written assurance from the Federal Government and the Coalition Parties on the occasion of the BZÖ's consent to the Act on State Aid Enforcement, known as the weakening of the banking secrecy, that the Court of Auditors will also be able to examine communities and companies in which the federal government is also involved with a small proportion. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the implementation of this assurance is still pending and that we expect it to be sent to the House immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27668	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27689	Mr President. Firstly, the applicant's intention is already recognizable, as there is no need to swirl around. If everything's so safe anyway, why does that happen? Secondly, If everything is already so great, then we would have to take over the intention and further reflections of the colleague of the Freedom Party at least where we have a great reform in front of us – then we will see what it looks like with the encouraging calls – where we are greatly reforming federal budgetary law, even because of the constitutional provisions that we first agreed together. We'll see how far it's gone! But this is also about very different things. This is also about Parliament's participation rights in the impact control of what we are now making as a four-year budget forecast. Today, Mr Krainer comes by and says we have to talk about it. - We've been negotiating since, I don't know how long. I do not know when the committee will meet in a few days, at least in November. So now you come to very long negotiation processes and ask how this is in place now. This is no longer a question of the Court of Auditors alone, and it is also a question of how Parliament, if we already have powers, can be better integrated on the other hand around the Committee on Budgets. That's where we've been negotiating super for a year, and at the end of the day, what the head of the section says, isn't it? What's that like? So over a year, we've actually been negotiating. There will then be a sample of nails, even if this was only a very small cut, which the colleague refers to with his request. I am already excited how the Red and Black MPs will then argue here that Parliament will finally have more rights. I am even more excited if, now, the SPÖ Group or the ÖVP Group are going to rise to argue that parliamentarians should have fewer rights than before. This is also a source of tension. – Mr Cap, now you deny, but this is a core competence of yours. So now we're going to look at it. That's what's going on in these days anyway. So I'd say, a useful proposal. As far as the Court of Auditors' competences are concerned, I have to say that I have no doubt that it is preferable if more are committed than less. The Court of Auditors and its Presidents have often proved enough that, within the framework of their competences, they can still make good decisions in their own audit, in other words in the audit plan, as to what they do and what they do not do. They can't test anything anyway, we know. But this is about the smart test plan, and we should continue to trust them. This question, of course, is also reciprocating in many other contexts when it is answered positively, namely, if we finally proceed to extend the test competences to the communities. That has been said here. The target formulation has already been signed by five parties. We will also see how it continues, because it will have to come to Parliament sooner or later. Well, that's an excellent occasion. Less excellent is actually the result of the Austrian national football team mentioned here. Whether this is directly related to the fact that, when BZÖ politicians appear in the stadium, they can still be caught by the camera, it is always particularly bad with the results that we should undergo a further investigation. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Meanwhile, there is an empirical finding. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today it was just a so-called friendship game, but it has already been more when we are already talking about appointment dates for other teams today. It has already been true that Austria has played against Turkey for a last excretion – it has been a few years since – and the more women vice-chancellor Riess-Passer has come to the picture, the more counter gates we have got. The question is whether Westenthaler is the worthy successor or not. - I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27768	The debate is closed. I agree with the proposal 734/A to the Committee on Budgets. [[23:33:37]] 34. Point First reading: Request by Members Dieter Brosz, Members of Parliament concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Act 1975) and the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Investigation Committees (Appendix to the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council) (836/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27807	We're coming to 34. Agenda item. I call Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27831	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have recently received the public prosecutor's request to make the confidential protocols available from the Banking Investigation Committee, and have stated in the President that the Rules of Procedure simply and simply do not give any opportunity to pass on protocols from a committee which has already committed itself in a previous legislative period. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That's good!]] – I thought that was the classic criterion of the ÖVP, that it was good. So I also assume that these confidential protocols of the Public Prosecutor's Office are not to be transmitted if I take this interlocutory note seriously. We believe that this is very necessary and therefore make a request to amend the Rules of Procedure in such a way that this transmission is possible. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: But not to the Lord Pilz when it goes!]] Mr Donnerbauer, were not You said one of those in the ÖVP, who, when it came to the extradition of Mr Ollinger, said: Yes, we have a practice, and a political context is obvious, but there would be an obstacle to the investigation of the prosecutor's office!Unknown term type: "%s".? They have noted from the ÖVP that there is an investigation committee that needs to be in charge, and that is why the ÖVP is changing its line and voting in favour of Mr Oillinger's extradition. We have, by the way, also agreed, but to agree to that and then, when the public prosecutor's request to transmit the confidential protocols is made, to say that we cannot, because we are not interested in what the prosecutor's office is doing, that is already double-bidden and not very credible. They have the opportunity to prove here that it is not about maintaining their own interests, but about using opportunities of persecution and enlightenment. So a little bit of even treatment might be appropriate. I cannot entirely answer the question raised by Mr Kogler. The fact is that the national team apparently suffers from the embossing of Mr. Westenthaler on the Ehrentribüne. [[Abg. Petzner: Where's your club wife? She hasn't been here for eight hours!]] Mr Petzner, you can still ask three more questions, the club woman Glavischnig has a child lying in bed with flu. If you compare this with a situation that Mr. Westenthaler always, permanently, at every football match – whether the Wiener Neustadt is against Austria, whether Austria is playing in the European Cup or whether it is a country match – consciously goes to the stadium, sits on the honorary stand, there in the DO & CO tasting apparently makes a fact-finding mission in the debate on food safety, if you want to explain to us that this is a correct process of politicians, then believe it yourself! Your nervousness is justified. Mr Westenthaler will also appear in the newspapers again, since now all the newspapers already call and ask: Is the Westenthaler back there? We're sending a photographer. - Patsch, he's been caught again today. We'll read it in the newspapers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] I find this unworthy, even if you say in the presidency that you want to postpone the agenda item on Wednesday evening sport on Thursday evening, whatever happened. And then Westenthaler goes here and sits in the stadium on the honorary stand! This is absurd, Mr Petzner. So a little discipline could also be applied to Mr Westenthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27907	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27928	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced period of time: Mr Brosz, I understand the request, but we are permanently in the Committee on Development and Cooperation. In my opinion, we are also on the road in terms of content. Granted, we have some questions to answer – that is true, that is not at all a question. We have already had many ideas and wishes – and this has already been discussed between the clubmen – for the redesign or other design, as you would like to call it, and I therefore believe that this idea should be brought in. Then we'll see that we come to a conclusion together. I am already inviting us to discuss these questions together – we have a score already, and some points will be added. This will certainly be an interesting discussion. I would like to invite you all very cordially.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27955	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e27977	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Under applicable law, it is up to the committees themselves to decide whether and to what extent their negotiations and decisions taken by them are confidential. In line with this request, the President will in future be able to forward minutes of meetings whose confidentiality has been decided by the Committee to law enforcement authorities. The Committees are therefore overrun by the President in this matter. We already have to consider whether this is compatible with the existing rules of procedure. In our view, there is no need for such an amendment of the Rules of Procedure, either, because a committee can meet at any time in the event of a need to remove confidentiality. If you want a retroactive effect in previous legislative periods, you need to discuss much more fundamental here whether we want to break through the principle of discontinuity. However, we are also opposed to the proposed easing of confidentiality, because the various investigation committees have all shown that it is necessary to strengthen confidentiality and not to loosen it. But overall, the debate on confidentiality will concern us in our further discussions on the Rules of Procedure. As Mr Pendl has already mentioned, we will also, of course, discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e28016	Next speaker: Mr Herbert Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e28040	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, it is already a bit strange if today, where at this time, by chance, more than half of your group is present, you are excited about it – yes, by chance, Mr Kogler! – that one of our MEPs as a sports speaker is at a sports event. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What does “at random ” mean?]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] I say that more than half of your group – with the exception of the leadership of the club, with the exception of Mr Pilz, who, as I have heard, is ill but not apologised. [[New calls to the Greens.]] So take a look at your own door before you talk about others here and make yourself important. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] If you address the Committee on Inquiry on this item in the agenda, I can only say: You of the Greens have lost all authority and legitimacy with today's voting behaviour, because with your voting behaviour today you have taken out every pressure from the debate on investigation committees! They of the Greens have done today the business of the government parties when it came to making investigative committees operational. There too you talk about the Greens here – and act quite differently. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As regards the application itself: We know that it is a problem if confidentiality can only eliminate a committee – and if the Committee no longer exists after the end of a legislative period, then such a request by the public prosecutor is hardly met. We have discussed this in the presidency, which is an open problem. We also believe that there should be a law-compliant regulation. That is why we will discuss this proposal very intensively, and I hope that the other political groups, who have agreed to this intention in principle, will do the same. However, it must be a law-compliant system – and also a regulation that nevertheless complies with the confidentiality principle of Parliament's committees, where this has been decided.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e28109	I don't have a word message anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 836/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The session is not over yet, we need a few minutes left. [[23:42:30]] Reading of part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e28146	I have a written request from 20 Members, the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda item 3, Report by the Transport Committee on the Government Template: The Federal Act establishing a postal market law and amending the KommAustria Act is read so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I will therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding part of the Official Protocol: ‘TO point 3: Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (319 of the Supplements): Federal Act establishing a postal market law and amending the KommAustria Act (459 of the Supplements) There is a request from 20 Members for the official protocol to be read with regard to item 3 of the agenda. Mr Hagen, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 3/1 EA). Votes: To TO point 3: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 459 of the Supplements, will be adopted by a majority vote in second and third readings (S, V). The motion for a resolution Supplement 3/1 EA is rejected (F, B, G, p. Huber).’ Are there any objections to the version or contents of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. This part of the Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with paragraph 51. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[23:44:10]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00045_d7e28205	At today's meeting, the self-employed received applications from 859/A to 869/A. Questions 3733/J to 3744/J were also raised. The next meeting is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, 19. November, 9 o'clock, one. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting will begin at Question Time. This meeting is closed.
