ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e8311	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The official protocols of the 8th and 9ths. Meeting of 10. In December 2008, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Muttons, Praßl, Herbert, Jannach and Dr. Winter. [[09:04:33]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e8345	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: 'Dear Madam President! I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 18. On my proposal, the Federal Minister without a portfolio Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, according to Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, removed from office and, at the same time, appointed her as Federal Minister in the Federal Chancellor's Office in conjunction with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. She will have the term ‘Federal Minister for Women and Public Service’. Best regards Werner Faymann’ The Federal Chancellor also received the following letter: 'Dear Madam President! I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 15. January 2009,..., in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, Federal Minister Dr. Johannes Hahn of the Federal Ministry of Justice has removed his preliminary assignment to the Federal Ministry of Justice. At the same time, on my proposal under Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has Mrs Mag. Claudia Bandion-Ortner appointed Federal Minister for Justice. Best regards Werner Faymann’ I wish the newly appointed Federal Minister the best success for her work in the service of the Republic of Austria. [[General condolences.]] [[09:06:18]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e8431	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Safer energy supply for Austria” I announce that the meeting will be held live by ORF in the period from 9.05 a.m. to 15.05 p.m. First of all, Mr Bartenstein, has spoken. I give him the floor and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e8461	Madam President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It has been 14 days since, due to the Russian-Ukrainian gas price dispute, no more Russian gas has been pumped to Austria, to Central Europe. – Now it comes back, thank God, and that is good. In some cases we had a Déjà-vu experience: Three years ago it looked similar, as it was announced on the basis of a gas price dispute – the people acting in both Russia and Ukraine were the same, not only Gazprom and Naftogaz – at the time. However, it was possible at the time – probably also due to a very early activation by the incoming Austrian Presidency of some important EU member countries, the Commission, awareness-raising also in Moscow and Ukraine – to resume very quickly, within 24 hours, the gas supply, which was at least reduced at the time. If you want to: the first success of our Austrian EU Presidency on 1st October. January 2006. This time, admittedly, it was a little more difficult and it has come to an escalation that has, of course, caused us concerns. I would like to thank the responsible persons in this country very much: the newly appointed energy minister Reinhold Mitterlehner, who is responsible for the gas companies, ultimately also the senior officials of the energy resort. You've done the right thing. On the basis of a gas storage availability which is looking for its own in Europe – almost half the annual demand, that is, 5 billion cubic meters, lie below the earth as our reserve – it was possible to provide the Austrian economy, but also Austria's households in a very, very cold phase of winter at any time. Thank you for Reinhold Mitterlehner and his team! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand: We must draw our lessons from this conflict and from this development. Three years ago it was still possible to say: once is never! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, three years ago it was still possible to say that the effects had been underestimated in the Kremlin and probably also in the Gazprom Centre, since it was still possible to say that Gazprom and the Russians did not have to expect that Ukraine might be turning off gas for its own use, and that sufficient and the amount of gas intended for Europe would be available here and in Baumgarten. The fact that this was not the case could still be qualified as a surprise for Moscow. This time, however, one must tell the responsible person between Moscow and Brussels, including Kiev, that one should have foreseen this a little better. And this time one must also analyze that the gas weapon on the part of the Kremlin has probably been deliberately used politically – over a period of 14 days. Security of supply – one of the three basic pillars of European and Austrian energy policy – is at the heart of our concerns in these days. So security of supply on the one hand – and the other two corners of this magical triangle are sustainability and competitiveness, things that make us get back and forth in these weeks and months. For example, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council of December 2008 focused on sustainability, namely the adoption of the climate package. Fortunately, an acceptable and industry-friendly solution was found at the last moment, including the 20/20/20 rule: saving 20 percent CO2 by 2020, improving energy efficiency by 20 percent and increasing the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent. Austria is there in some examples – and should also be in some examples – when I think about the fact that Austria has set an increase to 34 percent in the field of renewable energy sources. The European average is 20 per cent, and in Austria it is 34 per cent. So this is already exceptional and really very, very real. We have also experienced surprises in terms of competitiveness and prices in the last twelve months, I would say, while also saying that this price trend in the world energy markets was anything but sustainable. The oil price has initially doubled from $70 to $150 per barrel within a year and has then fallen from $150 to slightly more than $40 within three months. – One more thing is known as an investment account for refinery capacity, including for renewable energy sources! Wherever energy is to be invested, you have to be able to calculate with foreseeable prices in the medium and long term. Therefore: Such bocks don't make it any easier. As much as 150 US dollars per barrel are far too high, 40 US dollars are probably too low. Of course, it would be best for us to have a stable and not so volatile world oil price, which will then also have an impact on the gas price; in other words, somewhere in the middle, well below 150 US dollars per barrel and over 40 US dollars. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, what are the To-dos now? – Above all, our energy policy must continue to improve energy efficiency. I have already said commitment at European level: plus 20 percent. But that sounds easier than it is. This goes from car to household, and that is enough – even if you, Mrs Glavischnig, do not want to hear it – to the improvement of energy efficiency by closing the 380 kV ring in our country. As a result, entire Danube power plants can be saved. Second, the use of renewable energy sources is very balanced. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, with all appreciation for biomass, biogas, wind power: All this has its value, should have its value, direct energy from the sun, photovoltaics, yes, I am confident that in the middle of the coming decade the priceworthiness of electricity from photovoltaics that can be found market justice looks quite good, but Austria has here an asset, Austria has a strength here in terms of renewable energy sources – and this is hydropower, which is our number one energy source. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If we rely on an energy generation method in the field of renewable energy sources, then this must be hydropower. About half a year ago, I presented the “Master Plan Hydropower” together with the energy industry. Even with the exception of critical power plant sites – no one wants to build Hainburg, no one wants to grow the Wachau; does not come into question – and if one realizes what is feasible, which is ecologically acceptable, of course, with the involvement of citizens, then over the course of ten years with this “Master Plan Hydropower” some 7 billion kilowatt hours of additional production capacity are to be achieved. 7 billion kilowatt hours! And not by chance, ladies and gentlemen, that is about the amount Austria currently imports net per year. Austria, unfortunately, has become a electricity grid importer in the last decade. – If we want to get out of this trap, we need investment in hydropower. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of gas, it is also important to draw the right conclusions. We must recognise that Russia's gas for Austria will continue to be the backbone of gas supply for Europe in the coming years. We should also not underestimate the good traditional link between Gazprom and the OMV, and we should continue to invest in memory, which is the right way. Similarly, we should push ahead with the “Nabucco” project, because even Russia now acknowledges that it is a good thing not only to have a Ukrainian pipeline for the supply of Europe – and that it is not wise to rely only on Russian gas in terms of sources of origin, that is probably clear to everyone after the last two weeks. “Nabucco” in the foreground, Austria as a leading country within a consortium of five or six countries. However, there is also a Turkish Prime Minister, who in these days – very briefly, but nevertheless – flashed up something like a "energy weapon" in Brussels: Erdogan couldn't mess himself up to say: If the energy chapter were not opened in the negotiations with Turkey, then “Nabucco” would probably be called into question a little. Now on the issue of nuclear power, because this is of course part of an energy debate. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, quite clearly, as I believe, from the point of view of the House: Austria will continue to abandon nuclear power in the future, and we can afford to do so. Due to Austria's hydropower strength, we can afford to give up nuclear power. Nuclear power plants in our country are not an option today or in the future. We also make this clear again and again when it comes to maintaining our right in terms of the continuous shutdown of the Bohunice nuclear power station; of course, as far as the Kosloduj and Ignalina nuclear power stations are concerned. Security issues must be in the foreground, which is clearly stated. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Just as others decide on their energy mix, we want and will do this in the future in Austria, just as we do today. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is once again the focus on hydropower and We continue to reject nuclear power, because people in our country want it and because this must be worth our country's security.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e8643	Mr Mitterlehner spoke on a preliminary opinion. I would draw attention to the fact that your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e8664	Madam President. Mr Berlakovich! Ladies and gentlemen! Since yesterday, 7.20 p.m., the gas supply of Austria has been restored by Gazprom with 100 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In a country where security of supply is a very important asset for the population, but also for the domestic economy, this is a very, very important thing. But I, ladies and gentlemen, am not the one who says: Now everything is good again, so let us move on to the agenda, but I say that it is now necessary to draw the necessary consequences from it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is clear that this “zero supply” of 7. January 2009 – I quote that OMV general director Ruttenstorfer – was the Super-GAU, which is the cause of gas supply. As regards crisis management, it has been confirmed that, first, the energy steering in Austria is in order, as far as the legal situation and the framework conditions are concerned. This is where the Federal Government has created good conditions, and there we can link up where Federal Minister Bartenstein has stopped, so to speak, because in Austria, as measured by energy consumption, we have the highest storage capacity throughout Europe – and this has benefited us in this crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Second point: the management qualities. We in Austria have been able to cope with this crisis without a steering regulation and in this context have put forward reasonable cooperation. I can therefore also thank all of us here and today at the OMV, the AGGM – that is the general zone leader – but also the RAG and the E-Control very much for this cooperation. No one in Austria had to freeze, no one in the industrial sector had to be significantly restricted. Therefore again: thank you many times! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Third point: We in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, have also dealt with this crisis in terms of market economy, on the basis of long-term contracts. It is always asked whether it is bad if we conclude such long-term contracts. Could one not act more cost-effectively, according to supply and demand? – I can only say: Our advantage in this situation was that there are long-term contracts, and it has been exchanged in Europe. We don't have any price disadvantages. Therefore: This system is the right one. The role of the EU has also been critically questioned, ladies and gentlemen, and I do not want to assess the role of the Presidency, but the role of the Commission: The Commission was exemplary! I've been on the 7th. Januaryen, just as the crisis began, telephoned with the EU Commissioner; he was on his way to Prague and then Moscow. The Commission, I believe, has also taken the right course, namely not to participate in the bilateral conflict between Ukraine and Russia – as the whole problem would only have been extended – but to take action: here the implementation – there of the bilateral treaty, and to accompany the other negotiations. This has proved to be the same in the final effect as the attitude that we did not drive to Moscow last Saturday, because it was the line of Russia that we might be divided there. I therefore believe that what the Commission has done was very good. We also noticed this at Bohunice: It was the Commission's role to draw attention here to the breach of the Treaty when Slovakia is returning to Bohunice. On the other hand, I would also say that the determined and closed cooperation of the Austrian Federal Government, above all the Federal Chancellor, but also the Minister of Trade, has contributed to the fact that Bohunice has not been activated. I also find: a great success! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that also affects the consequences. Herbert Scheibner, for example, asked the National Security Council: Shouldn't a stock exchange be developed to better address the problem in this area? – I asked myself: The application has already been completed, it will be implemented. We will have the largest European gas exchange in Europe in autumn, a stock exchange, not... – This has indeed been cancelled. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is confidential, the Security Council – by the way!]] You have seen that the relevant decision has been taken. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The application!]] And that Herbert Scheibnerdie's question has been asked, he'll be happy to stand. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The application!]] Mrs Colleague, I think it is also in the interests of being concerned to note here that this element has also come to me from other sources of information and is therefore not subject to confidentiality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point: What are we gonna do now? – We will carry out a contract analysis: What has happened on the basis of the concrete changes in the Treaty? We'll do a damage assessment. On the third side, however, we will also draw the consequences towards alternative possibilities. And I believe that the EU is going a right way. We will prefer alternative systems accordingly, such as liquid gas. Secondly, we will expand the supply alternatives – example “Nabucco” – which is a project that you do not need Iran at all, because in Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan are very large gas reserves, and that will make us more independent. I think that's a real way too. And the European Union will improve the early warning system and also invite other countries to use gas storage systems similar to Austria. But the overall line in this area is on a market-based basis to be seen within the framework of a type of stock exchange system on a tradable basis. With it, my Ladies and gentlemen, we are also in the assessment of the future. Mrs Glavischnig and many others are discussing the energy transition and the autarchy. And it's not about creating a conflict at all, because Niki Berlakovich has also addressed Autarchie. As a goal to become as independent as possible – wonderful and fine!, but look at the practical aspect: We have Gazprom, Baumgarten; we will have “Nabucco”. Such lines are designed for 30 to 50 years, yes, even longer. Now imagine, we have the lead in Baumgarten, have everything there, act for all of Europe – and then we would be the ones who say: No, we're just transitors, we're just making our capacities available, but we're not going to use them!Unknown term type: "%s".? And that, where natural gas is one of the cleanest energies at all and the capacities are high for 100 years! – You from the Greens are making a urgent request to me today. I'll give you back: Maybe you'll ask yourself if this conception is correct. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP as well as congratulation with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this context, it is clear, Mr Bartenstein, that: Energy efficiency is the topic! But also here is a second thing: We have committed ourselves to expanding our renewable share to 34 percent by 2020. By 2020, practically over the next ten years. You see here – I know, from this distance it is difficult to see, but you know all this graphics –: [[the speaker shows a graphic]] These two small pieces of cake, which is the percentage of hydropower we increase to 34 percent by 2020. 34 per cent, i.e. around a third – we will have everything to do to make use of everything in the field of hydropower, where they exist at all. There may be another discussion of the Freudnau and other power plants on the Danube – I am excited about your position. [[towards Greens]] [[Call to the Greens: There is no joy!]] [[Call at the BZÖ: What about the good news?]] But one thing is clear in this context: that we want and need to present our actions year after year in a revision process. And if we don't achieve this, don't deal with this painful process – but who is worth it, I admit! – then we will have to purchase alternative electricity from Danube power stations via lines towards Romania, Bulgaria. We also have to pay for these. And that's why the question of where you can talk about Autarkie is not so far from here. On the other hand, I would also tell you: If you really want to be independent, that would mean that you want to double this share of 34 percent more than doubling it again. If I'm serious about the fact that you've started the energy transition and that this should be done in two components – the first part of 2020, with regard to heat and electricity, and the second part only in 2030 – I have to point out: Consider the timeline, consider the possible measures, and you'll get on it, here's some really not realistic! Now one could come to the point of view: It doesn't matter, the goal unites us! – It unites us with the goal of developing an overall plan. But we should not make people illusions: That we will completely abandon gas in the next ten, 15 years on oil, that is not feasible of the figures, of the data, of the developments! To this end, we should stand but work together to develop renewable energy and thus also to promote technology that we will need in general to address the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e8830	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. First, Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e8854	Ladies and gentlemen! I think each of us fell a stone from the heart yesterday and all were relieved when the information came that the Russian gas was flowing again. But on the other hand, I believe that the current gas supply crisis has also made it clear to each of us that we have a very high dependence on Russian gas supplies. Although, thanks to forward-looking measures, which have already been addressed, particularly in the area of the OMC, adequate reserves have been available to compensate for such supply failures, and as a result of which the situation has never really become dramatic, on the other hand, there are a lot of people who have just begun to think about this development in recent weeks and who have become clear that it must not be a long-term path to be in total dependence on fossil energy sources, i.e. on gas and oil. I believe that the crisis of recent weeks has created an unprecedented awareness of the importance of renewable energy in the population and of important energy policy actors. In this sense, we could also see the crisis as an opportunity to take first important steps towards an energy policy turn. I think we're realists enough to know that tomorrow we'll still need fossil energies. Therefore, it is not a matter of individual measures, but of a mix of measures that provide for the development of renewable energy as well as incentives for energy saving and energy efficiency. Important measures have been taken by the Federal Government in the government programme. One point is to reduce Europe's dependence on the Russian gas, that it is important to have access to as many energy markets as possible. The government programme here provides that Austria should work towards an enhanced dialogue with the energy producer countries, with Austria as an initiator, as a host and involving important Austrian companies. An important step towards access to other energy markets is the “Nabucco” pipeline project that has already been addressed. I believe that this top priority must be in Austrian external energy policy. As a useful addition to “Nabucco”, the “South Stream” project is also to be considered, with a view to making possible the necessary legal requirements. However, it will also be very crucial in future to consume less energy. In any case, we must also strive to increase energy efficiency. For example, the government programme also sets out the preparation of a master plan for energy efficiency. In the economic package II for 2009, a total of €100 million is planned for thermal renovation. 50 million of these are intended to be available as support for households, and 10,000 households could receive up to €5,000 in grants. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Ministries don't even know how to organize this!]] A further € 50 million will be needed for the promotion of thermal rehabilitation in companies. In addition, the federal government will invest in the renovation of public buildings. – In my view, these measures have top priority in two ways: On the one hand, they are essentially to be understood as an economic impulse, and on the other hand, investment in thermal renovation is important contributions to energy efficiency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What we must always bear in mind in all the discussions on energy efficiency, energy saving and thermal renovation, is also the issue of energy poverty. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is “super” when the trade union is in the industry’s lap,...!]] Energy is and remains an important basis for people's lives, and energy must therefore remain manageable for all. Similarly, the exchange of windows or boilers must be made possible for people with low incomes. Let us not allow useful measures in energy policy to fail on the social issue and the feasibility! There we have, I believe, a very, very important task. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, domestic energy will continue to be based on a mix of traditional and renewable energy generation. Although there is no doubt that we must rely on renewable energy, we must not give in to the illusion that we can replace fossil energy from today to tomorrow to 100 percent. Therefore, there will be the announced Master Plan “Renewable Energy” and the goal of reaching 34 percent will be in the foreground. But when further activities are extended, a central role of hydropower must be played. To make this a priority, we will work together for that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e8928	Next, Mr. Ing. School speaking. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e8949	Madam President. My esteemed Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! In fact, the pressure in the gas pipeline increases again – but the pressure in the discussion on the energy topic also increases. In recent years the energy question has been important for all experts, and in the population it has not been so much a subject. Nevertheless, much has happened: We have expanded the biomass – and we are happy about it today. Last year, when many things happened that scared us pretty much, we saw that this way was right. What happened last year? – We have experienced the oil price explosion, we have experienced the Georgia war, we have experienced the diesel crisis before All Saints and now the cold gas war between Ukraine and Russia. It wasn't fun anymore, and it wasn't an economic struggle, it was war. And it was about taking the people who freeze as hostages in an argument that was about money and power. Thank God we did not experience these effects in Austria. We can thank ourselves for this, especially in the industry and in those companies that did not claim the gas grid with full burden during this time. We have gas camps in Austria – it has already been said – and this is extremely important. We have the gas warehouses because natural gas is delivered well in the summer, but little is consumed and because in winter a lot is consumed, but still unreliable. But the problem is: How much gas do we get out of the camp when we need it? And just this year it's shown how close this place is. 1.8 million cubic meters of gas we get out of the camps and out of our own support. We would have consumed 2.2 to 2.4 million cubic meters in normal operation in January. The industry has turned back, so it has gone out for households. And the political coordination – Mr Federal Minister, I really want to thank you – has worked very well. [[Abg. Weinzinger: “Superb”!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But one must also be clear to us: If we had not expanded biomass in the last ten years, we would have needed significantly more gas. The biomass that people use to heat up in their homes that we use to operate large or smaller joint plants has brought us as much warmth as 1 million cubic meters of natural gas per hour. 1.8 million we bring out of the camps, 1 million cubic meters have replaced the biomass. And in total, we can say that we all had it warm in these critical days. That's why: Thank you too, dear Niki Berlakovich, and all your predecessors. Biomass and its expansion in the federal states and the federal government have shown us that we are going the right way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Vilimsky.]] Ladies and gentlemen, pellets, hacks, heating oil, natural gas – this is the theme in winter. But if people think that they have to pay for it, then the topic is going to be reduced very quickly, and it's no wonder that in rural areas more and more people are changing to pellets and hacks. And they're right! And they felt good this winter, and well they felt, and warm they had it! And they can afford it! And that's the jumping point: Even now, where heating oil is supposed to be cheap and will soon become more expensive, 1 kilowatt hour costs about 5.5 cents. Heating with pellets costs 1 kilowatt hour 4 cents, and with natural gas 7 cents. If you heat pellets, you'll be cheaper now, and it'll be safer, and the money will stay in the country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there have been people who have said that we can rely on the Russians and the 40-year-old friendship – if you rely on Putin, it is up to you! – and those who have said that are quite blaming at the moment. Putin is about money, Putin is about power, and he is relatively merciless on these issues; we have experienced it. All who wanted to agree that we can rely on Putin, know that they used the wrong word. [[Abg. Weinzinger:..., a blonde, so aliabe!]] [[Call at the FPÖ: What does Ukraine play for a role?]] We should turn on the mind and think normally about how it goes on. That is why the European standards are the right ones. We have worked out them together, we will implement them together. Hydropower, biomass, the sun, the global heat – together we will expand these areas and in the necessary further use of fossil energy we will reduce our dependence by using additional sources. “Nabucco” is an additional source, but of course the Turks also have their hands on the gas tap. It is also true that “South Stream” is an additional source. But the best source is saving what we get out of our own country. It is about our people, about our value added and about our jobs. That's why: Let us do what we can best in Austria, namely save, work and create new ones!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9037	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9058	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! You can't always be criticized. It is, of course, so – and we must stress this as an opposition – that the domestic energy industry and also the Federal Government have managed to cope well with this crisis – we also say quite openly, because in Austria we have very, very large reserves with 51 percent of the annual demand. But we do not only want to master crises in the future, but we also need to prepare for us to become more independent of oil and gas, ladies and gentlemen. Of course I am right, Mr Federal Minister, if you say that over the next 10 to 15 years we will not be able to get out of oil and gas – so realistically we must be of course! – but the fact is that oil and gas are becoming increasingly expensive in the future – because they are resources that will also end – and that we are, of course, the great Luckily, we have in Austria the fact that we have a rich wealth of renewable energy, we also need to benefit from it and to switch to these renewable resources as soon as possible. I am not convinced that “Nabucco” is the final conclusion of wisdom – not because I am mistrusting Iran and saying that Iran would not deliver the gas, but because I am worried about Turkey, if I have to read it now, that if the energy chapter is not opened in the talks with Turkey, Turkey will consider whether “Nabucco” should be built at all. That, ladies and gentlemen, is political blackmail, and we should say already today: If Turkey is going on this way and wants to blackmail us, then we should stop the talks with Turkey immediately anyway. That would be a real measure! We do not want to wait for a referendum in Austria at some point, if we want to sit in a boat in the European Union together with Turkey, but we want the referendum to be carried out on it now so that the people in Austria can decide: Do we want to be blackmailed by Turkey, or do we not want to? We don't want this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In fact, this issue is so important that it would have been worth holding a special meeting in the National Council on energy, energy crisis and energy supply crisis. I very much regret the failure of this special meeting on the resistance of the Greens. We would really have taken time to discuss this issue to discuss security of supply for Austria, ladies and gentlemen. Our future lies in photovoltaics, in solar thermals, in biomass, in wind power and in geothermal energy, and, yes, it is also in hydropower. We must use the available resources in Austria – also the hydropower! That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, you also have our support when it comes to further expansion of hydroelectric power plants. It is also essential for us to further improve the photovoltaic promotion. You know, with a first approach, the promotion was granted within a few minutes. The interest is given, people want to benefit from photovoltaics. In other words, we must take the necessary financial resources into account. Now to the thermal rehabilitation offensive, which has already been addressed by one of my previous speakers. You need to know, ladies and gentlemen, that it costs €80 billion to clean up the entire old house and old house stock in Austria thermally. We would have to liquidate €8 billion in funding to trigger these investments. That is to say, there is a right step in energy policy, namely to invest in thermal renovation, but the resources for this are too little. I believe that it would be a good step to make the necessary funding available over the next ten years. This is about €800 million a year, a lot of money, but this is exactly what we would support the domestic economy. Then: Who will take on-site thermal insulation measures? These are mainly local small and medium-sized enterprises, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we can support, above all, the local economy and thus create jobs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another measure I propose, ladies and gentlemen, is: Let us reduce VAT on energy from renewable sources! With wood it is already the case, but we also do so in the energy generation of hydropower, wind power, geothermal, photovoltaics. Let's put the tax down here from 20 percent on 10 percent! We also support the many local energy companies, the small power plants, the small hydroelectric power plants, which are also available, and this will also make electricity from renewable energy cheaper. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a book to your heart, a book by Johann Haidlmair, that is, “The Safety Fireplace”. I think it is urgently necessary that we take care that in Austria there is also a fireplace in our households, in the apartments, in the houses. This is not provided for in all construction regulations – unfortunately! The security fireplace protects us when there is a gas crisis. If we can't heat our apartment, we can't heat the house, then with a fireplace you have the possibility to keep at least one room warm in the house.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9139	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Widmann. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9161	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. I am already a little surprised that the ÖVP believes that the Minister of Economic Affairs has done so great in energy policy, and this is demonstrated by your strong applause. To do this, I have to say: A seven-slaughter is almost a bundle of energy against what has been achieved by the Minister of Economic Affairs in recent times in respect of his services. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will explain this too. I appreciate Federal Minister Mitterlehner as a person, I like him, he's a miller, but in principle he has done nothing but leave out the gas reserves of Austria like from a large balloon. And that was the “master’s achievement” of the Minister of Economic Affairs? [[Abg. Hornek: What do you have against a balloon?]] Mr. Col. von der ÖVP, it was the “master’s achievement” of the Minister of Economic Affairs that he left out reserves – instead of creatively and innovatively shaping the future of energy policy in Austria. He didn't do that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To this end, we need to know that in Austria we import about 70 percent of the energy. We pay €10 billion to foreign energy imports. Would it not have been a failure, Mr President of the ÖVP, if we were to take this sum of money to support biomass farmers, for example in the Mühlviertel district, and to expand photovoltaics, in order to increase the wind power to make your clients, namely the farmers, energy farmers? [[further calls to the ÖVP]] Wouldn't that happen, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] 70 percent energy imports in Austria, 50 percent energy imports in the EU. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are “gas junkies” in the EU – rising trend. We are “energy junkies” with increasing dependence on foreign countries, including Russia. And please, don't make the Putin bad for me, because Mr Mitterlehner has not turned the gas tap up, but it was Mr Putin who did this. Therefore: Thank you, Mr Putin! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, because you laugh like this, I say something to you: You have written into the government program – listen once! – that you will take action against any kind of nuclear energy promotion. [[Abg. Wheeler: Are you at the KPÖ?]] Then why did you last reject our BZÖ application concerning EURATOM exit? Why did you do that? Or: In the government program you stand inside, you will everything – even legally! – exploit to protect Austria from nuclear power. Where are your international measures against Temelín, against the Czech Republic, which this Parliament has decided. Where are they? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Where is your intervention that Krško should not be expanded? Where is your intervention that the TemelÃn Information Convention must be observed, Mr Cot? Where is she? Well, what's now? Where is she? She's not here! They are dealing with an expensive government model with the Minister of Economic Affairs, but it does nothing in important matters. That's the point! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I will now present you with a few proposals on how to really make energy policy. Some things have already been mentioned, but the first – and this is missing at all – is just to do a potential study so that we know: Where are reserves available in Austria? [[Abg. Hornek: There are!]] - They don't exist! Don't tell me that stupidity, Mr. Van der ÖVP. You really don't know yourself! Make a potential study so that you know where we will be able to expand in the future to put energy supply on firmer feet! Let's expand the hydropower! The Minister of Economic Affairs has said that. – Do you know what that would mean, Mr Commissioner? Ask the experts once! With the expansion of hydropower, you could not even cover the energy for the annual electricity consumption increase in Austria! You can't do that because it's too little. The magic word actually means energy efficiency. That's the point! Wind power, biomass, photovoltaics – you have to put more means in there! Or industrial waste heat – this is also an important topic! In Upper Austria alone, there are 1,000 megawatts blown into the air. 1000 megawatts: This is the energy generation of five Danube power plants that are lost here. It would therefore be time to start in spatial planning, to do things together and to bring users and producers together. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let's create new careers! If we create a professional image of the solar engineer, we better train the roof deckers and also the architects in terms of renewable energy! Federal Minister Mitterlehner, the vision must already be an energy-autarchy Austria, and we can do so. We manage space heating, we could also create electricity with energy efficiency and in the transport of new technologies. As in Berlin, let us create a university for renewable energies! Let's do that! Let's look into the future and we'll be world champions there! The keyword is electromobility. The 'Nabucco' project has also been mentioned, to which I would like to say: Let us not go to the dependency of Turkmenistan, India, China! This is just as uncertain as what we've had now. If the government programme says that would have top priority, I have to say: That's not true, but that's just one way. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Mr Minister, you were finally told: You are in good shape under the Ecostrom Act, you are in good shape under the Ecostrom Regulation, you are in a row with the implementation of the Energy Directive, and you are smart to use the €100 million that is in the program! The construction phase begins in March/April. If you want thermal energy, you now create programs for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9308	Mr Widmann, the word 'blessness', especially as an accusation, has been removed from the vocabulary used here in consensus. I think it should stay there. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Except when it's true! If it's true, you can say it! The truth is reasonable!]] The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Brunner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9339	Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to refer to the FPÖ's comments on the special session. The special meeting was requested so late that it would have taken place only after these plenary sessions. We Greens wanted to advance this issue of the energy crisis, so today we are proposing a urgent request to Minister Mitterlehner, in which we will ask him exactly how the energy crisis has been dealt with and how the Federal Government is imagining the future of Austrian energy supply. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How was that? Can you explain this exactly to us?]] If the answers do not turn out accordingly, then of course we will also consider the possibility of a special meeting. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Blue, Red, Green march together now!]] [[Abg. Strache: Lefter than orange, that's no longer possible!]] Unfortunately, Austria's energy supply is not safe. That has shown us quite clearly this crisis. Unfortunately, this crisis has not come of a threat, and I am already wondering who is responsible for it, that Austria has been so heavily affected by this crisis. [[Calls and calls between representatives of BZÖ and FPÖ]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] It was the last federal governments that have caused Austria to rely 70 percent on energy imports, that 10 billion euros a year are going abroad for energy imports, money that could also be used here in Austria for local jobs, and that we are now at 50th place in the climate protection index – behind China! - Lie down. The Greens have already put forward proposals for an energy transition here a long time ago, but unfortunately they have not been taken seriously. If these proposals had been implemented, then Austria would certainly not have been so heavily affected by this crisis. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The question now is: What does this Federal Government do? Are you finally taking action, starting a turnaround, or are you content to have managed the energy crisis, and are you just waiting for the next crisis? – If you read your statements and your government program, then you are more likely to take second place, because you continue to rely on the expansion of gas power plants, on the expansion of gas pipelines. They don't make us more independent, they might just make us dependent on someone else. They invest €4 billion in this expansion. With this €4 billion you increase our dependence, and unfortunately these €4 billion we are going to lose in the expansion of renewable energies. There you have still not set a target which has not been specified by the EU. We do not find any measures in this regard, and we still do not have a functioning eco electricity law, a lack which, incidentally, also prevents jobs. Energy consumption in Austria is increasing, nuclear imports are increasing, and the discussions on nuclear power have been re-ignited in Austria as well. In fact, the previous federal governments had clearer statements of the rejection of the peaceful use of nuclear power in Austria, namely a clear no to nuclear power, in their government programme, even as regards the efforts to get out of nuclear power in Europe. Unfortunately, the Federal Chancellor is not here now, but we are already expecting a clear statement on how the SPÖ position on nuclear power in Austria is now, whether it remains in nuclear policy with a no, or whether the opinion of the advisor of Mr. Federal Chancellor, Mr. Androsch, that we also need nuclear power plants in Austria will be your position. That would be a turning point in Austria's nuclear policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For secure energy supply in Austria, we need an energy plan, a uniform, integrated energy plan, which clearly focuses on efficiency, on efficiency criteria in all areas and on energy saving. Here we could achieve a lot, especially in the renovation of the building. We heard yesterday in the report that the public buildings in particular were far behind. Here the public hand should play a pioneering role. However, we also need to support the budgets. Building renovation could reduce two thirds of the heat requirement, which would of course also help people save money. Austria must clearly have the goal of becoming independent of nuclear imports and independent of fossil energy imports. To change our electricity and heat supply, that's what's going on. We have the necessary resources in Austria. We can become independent by 2020 in the field of electricity, regardless of heat by 2030. It just depends on whether something is done for it or not. It is now simply not enough to integrate green ideas into Sunday's speeches, but it has to be done. Whoever does not act now does not just negligently purchase future crises, but leads them just as deliberately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9434	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9455	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to ensure secure energy supply for Austria, we will finally have to put our largest power plant in operation, which is the potential of energy saving, the potential of more efficient consumption of energy. This presupposes that there really is a broad awareness of energy saving. This concerns public buildings – how true! – as well as businesses or households. All can save energy and use energy more efficiently without having to give up quality – on quality of life, on quality of work, on quality of production. But it will not be possible to do so alone with the formation of consciousness, we will also need a legislative framework, and from my point of view, an important instrument is an energy efficiency law, which is also contained in the government programme. I can imagine a lot, for example, that the classification of products according to A, B, C and downwards is becoming increasingly poorer in terms of energy efficiency, is being extended to other products of everyday life. Now we have it only with refrigerators, dishwashers and similar, but also cars, PCs and much more could be classified after that, in order to also give those who buy it an awareness that energy efficiency will help them save over the entire life of this product. In addition, we will also need steering measures to buy PCs, vehicles, refrigerators – whatever – that are energy efficient, more than those that are energy eaters. With voluntary commitments it will not be done, we will need a legal framework to do so. Energy efficiency using renewable energy also has a very important social dimension. There is a raw Court of Auditors report, which has been colported in the early days, which confirms that there is still a great deal to be done in almost all the federal states, particularly in the field of space heating. As a state, we will therefore have to make important incentives to change heating systems, to reduce homes, to improve living conditions and thus to help people save. These heating system changes are very expensive, but they are also really sustainable. However, we will have to design our funding services in such a way that we do not simply pay €2,000 for a changeover. This is good and nice for those who have 8 000 € easy to make such an investment, but these are by far not all people. I think that we will have to do much more with measures to ensure that, after a changeover from one year to the next, one can repay a non-sensory loan and, as a matter of fact, conclude an energy contract with the State. This would help in the long term to free the poorest Austrians from the energy price trap. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Neugebauer.]] We will have to increase the share of renewable energy massively. The European Union gives us 34 percent of renewable energy in its internal Burden Sharing. We will only be able to achieve this if we massively and dramatically reduce our total energy consumption, otherwise we will be forever behind the targets, but we must also increase energy efficiency, exchange heating systems, create energy awareness. And, in my opinion, this is the really important thing – we should not regard these 34 percent as a burden, but rather as an infinite opportunity – as an opportunity in the labour market, as an opportunity to become independent of energy imports, which will also make us more independent from foreign policy, for example on the issue of human rights concessions to Russia and other countries. Of course, it is also very important, in terms of environmental protection and climate protection, as an environmental spokesperson of SPÖ, for me, to turn to renewable energy, because we are compromising radical greenhouse gases, working against climate warming and setting up measures in the country that bring something sustainable and do not make us dependent on the fact that we have to purchase certificates abroad. A serious energy policy is a puzzle of many different stones – from my point of view there is also a holistic anti-atomic policy – and only if we increase our renewable energy shares massively will we not be forced, for example, to continue importing nuclear power, and will make ourselves more credible in our anti-atomic policy. We will work towards the amendment of the EURATOM Treaty, and we will also try to find out from other paths, such as nuclear energy, for example: the use of non-sustainable agricultural fuels. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I believe that there are a whole series of more genuine measures for safe energy supply which will force this Federal Government and, hopefully, a very broad majority in this House and thus make Austria safer and even more life-friendly. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9527	The next item is Mrs Fuhrmann's speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9549	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Minister! I would like to focus briefly on what was previously expressed by the BZÖ, in relation to nuclear power. If you are questioning the EURATOM Treaty here, this is something that should be discussed in this context too, because, as you know, it is, of course, about financing the increased safety of former Eastern reactors. That's one. Of course, what we do not question and what we make clear is that, as in the past, there is a clear no to nuclear power from our side. If Mr Widmann puts it this way, you should correct that, as I mean. And if he thanks Putin here, I would like to correct it in the same way as you need to know – and of course we all know – that this is not a good-will action by Putin. It was already an economic question to be solved, because it has led to high income losses. That is to say, I think the one to whom we in Austria have to thank for the successful crisis management is our Minister of Economic Affairs, and we should also thank him for the rapid analysis of the situation in Austria and the necessary measures have been discussed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have been able to secure the supply failure of gas supply in Austria – through imports from other countries, through own-funding and, above all, through gas storage. This continued to ensure the supply of land without problems. It has already been mentioned: There was a crisis already in 2006, and this has also led us to take the necessary steps in 2006 for a forward-looking planning. At that time, an energy steering law was created, which, of course, also guarantees today's security. However, I must also note that in connection with the gas crisis, the interplay within the European Member States has worked well and the EU has managed to intervene without vehemently interfering between Russia and Ukraine. I believe that this is essential for us Austrians, as the European Union is doing in economic matters. Austria is, of course, at the heart of the European Union, and this also means that we have become a central point of energy supply. I believe that facilities such as gas hub Baumgarten or storage Haidach can be an example. And this position, including this role of the EU, must be forced and strengthened as an Austrian. The EU has agreed to support the construction of new pipelines and to minimise the dependence on Russia. It also supports projects such as the construction of the “Nabucco pipeline”, which is financially and politically important. This means that the EU must also act with common resources in terms of energy policy and, above all, seek unity in the presentation. We in Austria have always focused on various sources of energy, and the pioneering role we have played in innovative technologies up to now must be further developed. I am thinking of research areas such as the fuel cell or photovoltaics. The thermal building renovation has also been mentioned here, where I believe that it is a very central point in increasing energy efficiency. Whoever makes a contribution in this area – and since I mean every individual and every one of us – and also conforms to the directives and complies with them, of course, should also receive funding. There are also federal states that have taken a pioneering role in this context and are already active, such as Lower Austria. I think it is also important to enter into a dialogue with the communities with regard to thermal building renovation, because there are also some examples that are quite tangible here. Energy efficiency must become an essential and a stronger part of our energy policy. Natural gas is a reliable source of energy, which is clear, and it has also been shown over the past 40 years that the supply of gas has basically worked trouble-free. Nevertheless, Austria should rely on those energy substances where we are self-sufficient, and that is the hydropower. And this has been shown here many times. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we Austrians also have to ensure that Austria becomes a hub for a European energy policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9628	The next item is the speech by Mr Themessl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9649	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! All ladies and gentlemen on TV screens a beautiful “Good morning”! In short to my predecessor Silvia Fuhrmann I think you did not fully understand this with the EURATOM Treaty, and that out of funds from it scrap tractors may be brought up-to-date. I do not think you have understood that the new members, the former Eastern European countries, have agreed under the EU Accession Treaty to remove their scrap tractors from the grid. And there is also an accusation to be made by the Austrian government, because the passus has been forgotten, of course, not only to take these reactors off the grid, but also to scrape them. That's the point! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Mitterlehner, the Federal Minister, that you and your ÖVP partners, of course, always praise the EU on the green clover, we know, but what you think is so positive that the EU has not interfered with Ukraine, and why you think that the EU Commission has acted exemplaryly here, no one can understand it, because one fact is one: The Russians want to deliver, and the uncertainty factor in this gas crisis was not Russia, but the uncertainty factor was the transit country Ukraine. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not understand why you did not draw your EU colleagues' attention to the fact that there must have been great pressure on Ukraine. If you say today that one should not be dependent on transit countries, but at the same time speak the word for the 'Nabucco' project, then I do not quite understand it, because you know that this will be the next dependence, one on Turkey! Turkey will, of course, use this as a means of pressure for EU accession. I am already excited to see how the SPÖ will respond when there will be a referendum on Turkey's accession to the EU. – So much for the gas line “Nabucco” and a further dependence on a transit country. Mr Mitterlehner, what the EU has generally failed to address in recent years is precisely the question of energy and raw materials in all areas. The EU is only dealing with putting even more new laws, even more rules on the table, and it has been risking a struggle with Russia for years with its US fervor, although Russia would be an extremely valuable country for Europe, which you can already recognize if you only face Russia's need for recovery in the economic field. Russia is a huge country and a much more reliable partner than many others in this world, but you are constantly risking a conflict with Russia with your US-hearing in the EU. If you look at industrial nations such as India or China, which have grown strongly, and if you know that representatives of these countries have been traveling across all African countries for years, secure supplies of raw materials for decades, secure energy supplies for decades, you have to say with regret: All of this has fallen asleep in the EU, it has not done at all in recent years! Now we come there as a second or third party, as a bitter, have to take what is left, or we pay the double price. If the EU's sensible foreign policy and economic policy are, I do not know, Mr Dr. Mitterlehner, how you come to this statement! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When we talk about energy security today, we know that we need to do much more to make Austria energy self-sufficient. Yes, we have appropriate possibilities! Many of my previous speakers have already pointed out what possibilities remain in the hydropower, what possibilities exist in the wind power and what can be achieved above all with thermal rehabilitation in this country. Mr Katzian, as you said that the thermal renovation was so very important, will now tell you a few figures. They want to say and write 100 million € for thermal building renovation. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: In addition!]] Yes, in addition to the already very few you spend so far. And then, no later than yesterday’s “Report”, you know that you do nothing in your own ministries, in your own state buildings. There is a need for thermal renovation, there could be a lot of energy saved – but you don't do anything! On the one hand, within a very short time, you have tied up a bank package that has been spoken of as €100 billion – a large sum, but if you read today’s issue of the “standard”, then you will know that the bank liabilities of the Austrian banks in the former Eastern European states alone make up € 230 billion, and that means that the 100 billion are probably not going to be enough; I hope it won’t beat – but on the other hand, you’re only willing to spend ridiculous 100 million for thermal building renovation. Take more courage at last! Do something! If you want to link an economic package with which you want to support the domestic economy and want to do something good to local businesses, you have to dramatically increase the funds here. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] A year ago, we were ready to spend €500 million on environmental certificates in the coming years – I call it so beautiful “polluting rights” – something where value creation does not remain in the country where all this is wasted. One could make much better use of this in our country. Take a little more courage and do something, then we will also be able to talk about energy security in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9725	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9746	Madam President. High house! Gas flows back from Russia over Ukraine – bravo! [[Call the SPÖ:Bravo!]] We certainly do not need gas via a Tauerngas line, a pure transit line, in the Salzburger Land, especially not without full integration of the population. Salzburg AG pays €150 million for this. We must first ask the population. However, we in Salzburg have several possibilities for secure energy supply. At a panel discussion of a large Salzburg daily, the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, we were of course not invited by the BZÖ, because we are not yet – not yet! – in the Salzburg Landtag. [[OBJECTIVES]] But we'll be there on 1st. Go in on March. We'll move in there! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: In Carinthia!]] This event took place in the beautiful Lungau. A wind farm at Aineck is fixed and planned, Peter Haubner, isn't it? We only need to build it, as one of the diluted citizens from Tamsweg has found. Those who want to force eco-energy must not prevent the expansion and not delay, as can be seen from the example of the hydroelectric power plant in Stegenwald. There are also political competitors who want to prevent this again. We can save a CO2 emissions of 1.7 million tonnes per year in Slogenwald. We also want to promote even more small hydropower plants, such as one of my colleagues in Vorarlberg, where we can produce 101.5 million kilowatt hours a year. In the last few years, we have had three major storms, three big ones: the “Kyrill”, the “Emma” and the “Paula”. All three are probably due to climate change. A lot of wood has been “harvested” – under quotation marks – but lots of wood rotted in our forests and falls victim to the borch beetle and not to the hacking or pelleting plant. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We must use the energy sources at our doorstep! Pellets are more in demand at these energy prices than ever, because they mean regional availability, environmental compatibility, job security and, moreover, domestic value added. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We need photovoltaics not only in the Oberpinzgau and throughout our federal state, but there is, for example, a proposal from a colleague from the FPÖ that we integrate the photovoltaic systems also on the Tauernautobahn, on the noise protection walls. There is then a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Hofer. Earth heat use should be tested by geologists, as with many exploration drilling holes for thermal projects that have taken place in us. That the energy, the electricity also has to be transported, of which we are all aware, but not beyond the minds of the arrants, over whom directly concerned, with 65 meters of monster masts that are shattering our valuable cultural landscape and threatening the people! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from BZÖ are committed to wiring, which is not only technically possible, but also manageable and financeable in Salzburg. The Earth's cable is not supposed to be an empty choice. We want partial wiring in sensitive areas, as promised in the new Salzburg State Energy Act. [[Abg. Weinzinger:... talk about Carinthia!]] Austria, especially Salzburg, can be self-sufficient from the energy supply. - We just have to take it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9842	Mrs Lichtenecker has now come to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9864	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mitterlehner, you are talking about energy efficiency – and say in the same breath: Expansion of hydropower. Two facts: Energy efficiency has not really improved in recent years, even decades in Austria. The fairy tale of decoupling economic growth and energy consumption has always repeated Mr Bartenstein – it is a fairy tale to our great regret – and there has been no real progress in the expansion of renewable energies. On the contrary: The share has fallen from 70 percent to 57 percent since 1997. And there are not only ÖVP and SPÖ involved, but very probably also at government times FPÖ and SPÖ. They have ensured that Austria remains dependent on gas, oil and coal. So, of course, the question is: What way are you going? That of the gas pipelines – “Nabucco”, tauern gas pipelines, as always called them? Ladies and gentlemen! It does not need the imagination of a screenplay by James Bond to know that it is not only political leaders who can cause problems and supply stops, but also terrorist attacks. In addition, it is a finite resource that needs to be handled carefully, which must be used for purposes for which it is actually necessary. This is clear, as is the dependence on price increases. The Master Plan Wasserkraft – whether we are honest – is nothing but a wishful concert of the energy industry, presented with the former Minister of Economic Affairs. After all, if you look closely at this, you recognize: 70 percent – 70 percent! – the economic-technical possibilities and capacities of hydropower are expanded, and – openly stood – 15 percent are legally anchored taboo zones. These are national parks, nature reserves, Europe conservation areas, nature parks – all legally anchored. Be honest and look at it: What potential is that? With this, Minister, you will not solve the energy crisis! Finally, the question is: What way are you going now? Do you leave the unsafe path of dependence and turn into the road of safety? Then there are a lot of advantages that we can achieve, and that is exactly what needs to be worked with full force. The energy future must not be managed, but it must be the currency! The fact that the people in Austria have long been so far shows a recent study, a current survey in Upper Austria. In Upper Austria, the energy transition has been launched at the initiative of the Greens, at the initiative of the Green Council of State Rudi Anschober. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: The Immer- still-Landesrats!]] Energy saving and renewable energies are the main priority, and this is a great deal of approval. 93 percent of the Upper Austrians support this energy transition. 75 percent see the opportunities the energy transition brings. 89 percent welcome the promotion of the conversion of oil to pellets and also the renovation of the old house, and almost 100 percent – 98 percent – welcome the solar offensive – so all the signals that clearly say what future it has to go into. Mr Mitterlehner, the energy transition is possible! It is possible to convert the energy supply for electricity and heat in Austria to renewable energy by 2030. However, this is only possible with full use and full focus on energy efficiency. Upper Austria has recognized this. In Upper Austria, on the initiative of the Greens, the energy transition in 2030 was decided in the Landtag, in the Land Government. There is, of course, the question: Has the EIA become more ambitious due to the initiative of the Greens? If that is the case, it can only be an advantage. In conclusion: The exit from fossil energy sources and the transition to renewable energies are the key to a modern, self-determined economy, a modern, self-determined life. Take the key! Open the door to the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9909	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:21:09]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e9934	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e10204	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 675/J by Mr Klubobfrau Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour on the failure and non-orientation of the Federal Government in energy policy. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 231/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e10225	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the request made in accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure is A brief debate on the reply 231/AB – the question 207/J – by Mr Klubobmann Strache, colleagues and colleagues on left-wing extremity against election campaign by the Federal Minister for the Interior. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e10256	The Presidential Conference reached the following consensus: A day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 108 minutes, FPÖ 96 minutes as well as BZÖ and greens per 84 minutes. An agreement on the organisation and duration of the debates on agenda items 1 and 2 for the period of direct transmission was also reached by 15.05 a.m. For the statements by the Federal Chancellor and Deputy Chancellor concerning the appointment of a member of the government and the debate, it was agreed that: Declaration by the Federal Chancellor and declaration by the Deputy Chancellor with 10 minutes each, a round of speakers per group with 9 minutes per speech, the Federal Minister of Justice with 10 minutes and a further round per group with 6 minutes each. The number of speakers: First round: FPÖ, ÖVP, BZÖ, SPÖ, Green; second round: according to political strength. For the statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs on Austrian EU policy and debate, it was agreed that: Statement by the Federal Chancellor with 15 minutes and statement by Mr Foreign Minister with 15 minutes, one round of speakers per group with 9 minutes each, one round per group of 7 minutes each, and two further rounds per group with 4 minutes each. The order of speakers: First round: FPÖ, SPÖ, BZÖ, ÖVP, Green. All the following rounds: by group strength. In the European debate, the President-in-Office of the Council, after consultation with the club presidents, will distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups in such a way that all political groups can still speak evenly. Any actual corrections to the European debate will only be made after the television broadcast has ended. It was also agreed to interrupt the meeting from 1 p.m. to 1/15 p.m. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:24:34]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council concerning the appointment of a new member of the Government
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e10332	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. Following these statements, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e10362	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The opportunity, Mrs. Mag. Claudia Bandion-Ortner's presentation and particularly welcome them to us is also a good opportunity to point out that the judicial centre in our country has played an outstanding positive role in recent years – as there is, of course, a detailed explanation for why it is an important place. I do not want to forget, especially in the idea of a new member of the government, that continuity in the judicial area, independent and fair work, as far as possible to do party political polemics and to give the matter of objectivity the necessary space and importance and the necessary priority has also been very clearly, clearly and correctly perceived by Mrs Berger. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The Family Reform and the Violin Protection Package, which was a particular concern to Mrs Berger, have been promoted in a wide range of areas. The violence package is in the final negotiations. "violence package" sounds like it's just some kind of measure that you decide to take, but just protecting against violence is one of the crucial tasks of justice and legislation in our country and thus constitutes an overall responsibility of Parliament and government. But also many measures in the field of business, many further developments in family law depend on someone at the head of the department standing independent and committed to the common cause. ==References== ==References====External links== Claudia Bandion-Ortnervom, President of the Federal Republic of Germany. For more than a decade, she served as a judge in justice and, as we all know, led several extensive criminal proceedings. It is therefore not particularly important to stress the great experience of justice, because it has already resulted from its CV and also from the public awareness that it has gained through its objective, determined and fair leadership in these extensive criminal proceedings in the public. The area of justice is an important place in social and political change. There are new challenges in the field of youth jurisdiction, as well as in the issues I have already mentioned, of protection against violence, in particular the protection of children. The case law, whose top principle is always fairness, now also has someone who stands for this fairness and for this objectivity. I am therefore glad that in the coalition negotiations, Josef Pröll proposed to someone who can be described as independent and who also sees himself as independent. Good cooperation between the Federal Government and Parliament is of particular importance in judicial matters – in all departments, but also in the judicial sector. The good preparation, the involvement of Parliament, the time and time required by Parliamentarians, the depth of the discussion, after the analysis has been carried out jointly, also the joint preparation of measures and the joint review of the achievement of objectives need this good cooperation between the Minister of Justice, the other members of the government and the Parliament. I would like to end by thanking someone who held the leadership of the department interimly and led the ministry, namely Dr. Johannes Hahn. I therefore ask you all to support our new member of the government in the way it deserves the importance of justice and the task of independent justice in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e10439	I now give the Vice-Chancellor the floor to give his statement. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e10460	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Above all: dear Claudia Bandion-Ortner, who took place today for the first time at this bank! I should also like to thank Gio Hahn, who has arrived in good time, for the interim leadership of this responsible department since the government's fishing visit in early December to mid-January. [[Federal Minister Dr. Johannes Hahn takes place at the government bank]] [[Call the FPÖ: “Gio”!]] He has mastered this task in a double load of bravouros. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We know that the management of the Ministry of Justice brings with it a very special responsibility. Justice legislation is involved in numerous private, personal areas of life and is therefore also associated with serious interventions in the legal sphere of the individual. That is why, in the judicial area, a management is needed, which is ensured by a high level of expertise, but also by social competence, that this high level of responsibility is also exercised accordingly in our country. It was a very special concern for me to win an absolute profi for the management of the judicial unit. With Claudia Bandion-Ortner this has been excellently successful, since I am 100% sure! Welcome aboard again! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is also clear that, of course, the public debate focuses primarily on spectacular criminal cases and the fight against crime, and the question of the security of citizens is, of course, the central task of a government and an important issue. It is often overlooked, however, that justice policy, like hardly any other place, is also shaping and shaping social policy in a country and drawing responsibility for it. It is also, as it were, the Ministry of Social Policy. For example, the design of family law or the right of residence is a key factor in the life of people in Austria and is thus also applied to the individual well-being of each and every individual. The view into the chapter on justice also shows that important tasks are waiting, and underlines the social policy orientation, the social potential of justice policy, through the focus. There are topics such as inheritance law reform, family law reform, reform of property law, further development of consumer law. These are all tasks that need to be addressed where changes are to be made, to modernise and to give the right answers. A second major point in addition to the social responsibility of the Minister of Justice – and the Minister of Justice in the concrete – is also the question of the co-organisation of the Austrian economic location. I am just coming from the Ecofin Council, the Council of Finance Ministers in the European Union, which took place in the last two days. The preview accounts on the issues of economic development give rise to concern about the modalities to be made. We will have to be very well positioned, not only from the economic point of view, but also from the legal framework, so that we can get out of this crisis as quickly as possible with the appropriate energy. It is therefore necessary for successful entrepreneurs in Austria to have fair legal rules and to ensure that compliance with these rules is carefully pursued in the interests of legal certainty. We know that the best right is not worth anything if it is not enforceable. Economic action needs clear and reliable framework conditions. Austria has a very good reputation in this area to lose and defend. We want to improve him together. I therefore see justice as one of the central tasks of the state. Justice policy means concrete design for citizens and businesses directly, in their personal living conditions and also in the design of competitiveness. It is also the duty of the judiciary to give legal certainty and to ensure legal protection. We will all have the task of supporting the Minister of Justice in her very demanding work. I would ask that not only the members of the government, but also the political groups, make their contribution to this. When it was clear that the Ministry of Justice will be occupied by the ÖVP in the formation of the new Federal Government, I decided to make a proposal on human resources, which shows that we are focusing on an independent minister. It is a signal for the independence of the jurisdiction, for the unbiasedness of the judicial administration and also for the objectivity of prosecution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is an ambitious judicial programme that we have jointly determined in the Government Agreement. There is a lot of work waiting for our new minister – I am very pleased that we can go this way together! –: Family law reform, resolving the burning question of how cultural and sports sponsorship in Austria is to be continued, improvements in economic law. I could continue this list now, but I do not want to do so because of the very short term. Claudia Bandion-Ortner will deal with these issues point by point. Good judicial policy is a contribution to social peace, is an important contribution to the dialogue between the social forces of our country. Claudia Bandion-Ortner is the guarantee that first of all there is close contact with the judiciary, that problems are recognised early on and that solutions can be found quickly. Mrs Mag. As a former judge, Bandion-Ortner probably knows as no other the “legal life” – under quotation marks – from daily professional practice. It also knows how important it is for citizens to have confidence in our justice. I wish everything good for this exciting task, a lot of strength, a lot of success, not only in the sense of the government, but in the whole country!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e10527	We are now going into the debate on the statements. The speaking times are known. First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. 9 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e10551	Madam President. Dear government team! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you can truly be congratulated today for having managed, after almost a month and a half since the formation of the government, to be complete now as far as your government giants are concerned – and that you have finally also a Minister of Justice on board. There you can only say: really a “strong performance”, hat off! Of course, you have every reason, in your speeches, which you have just given the best, to consecrate yourself – we are not used to that – to knock each other on your shoulder and to say how great everything is and what great work has been done in the last one and a half months. The only problem is that no one in the population outside can actually notice anything of it. You don't really notice from the population that you work that you take people's problems seriously. What has been heard so far are pure statements of intent – that has been observed by the people – which are not particularly intoxicating. They continue the policy of the last legislative period seamlessly. This is a policy of vague promises, of which we cannot expect too much. We know the “dynamic duo” of the last head of government, the name is Gusenbauer/Molter; today it is called Faymann/Pröll. Just, people don't really notice a difference. The Austrians don't notice him. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] There is a immersing of many problems that would be sustainable, and one cannot really see and feel that you are actually putting into practice the measures that would be necessary for the middle class that you take seriously measures to combat unemployment or crime. We have some experience of a small financial package, including announcements in many areas, but too little of what should be expected in view of the crisis towards the economic package and economic recovery. But let us come to the new Minister of Justice, who is presenting himself to Parliament today. Mrs Mag. Based on the BAWAG process, which she has managed very competently and also outstandingly, Bandion-Ortner has received a lot of advance ladyberries – and that rightly so – where one may have to comment on the topic of BAWAG: If Helmut Elsner had managed to dive through another two years, we would today be faced with the obscene situation that Helmut Elsner would also stand by the BAWAG for a state loan – and probably he would also receive one more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Strache quotes Stadler!]] This is really a very bizarre and wrong world. I am glad that Elsner was sentenced and – in order not to raise misunderstandings – I support and welcome his correct condemnation. It was correct and necessary, but with exactly the same focus must be done against any mismanagement in the banking sector. That's exactly what it's all about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] According to local financial market supervision, the Austrian banks in the Eastern European countries have open demands – and this has also been published for the first time today – of $300 billion and € 230 billion respectively. This corresponds to about 68 percent of our gross domestic product. If that were to happen, Austria would be bankrupt. The “Financial Times Germany” speaks of a “Brandherd of Eastern Europe”. These figures, which have been published for the first time today, show how it really is about the Austrian banks. It is precisely this that I am wondering how you too, Madam Minister of Justice, will deal with this, because you are now part of a government which has not yet considered it necessary to ensure the necessary control mechanisms: to ensure that the Court of Auditors also ensures the balance sheet control of those banks who apply for a government loan for which we taxpayers have the right to pay. These are the principles that are necessary: that the Court of Auditors also review the balance sheets of those banks that want to receive money, and that money is transferred and transferred only when the balance sheets are sound, when the managers who have failed are held responsible, and that also means that they are not sent home with high amounts of pay or high pension contributions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also necessary to ensure that the money received by Austrian banks through state loans is, of course, used for the Austrian economy, for Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for the Austrian industry, that this money is used for the Austrian economy, for easier lending opportunities, yes, for strengthening the Austrian internal market. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the hour's commandment, and that's exactly what we want to make sure, and not just as it is to this day, just make promises and then have to be afraid that this may be used to stop some speculation holes in Eastern Europe, and then in reality it could only be a big break-in with the banks. This must be prevented, and I hope and I also expect you, Mrs. Justice Minister, in your capacity as a successful judge not only in the BAWAG process, where you have been able to gain a deep insight into the business practices of a money institution, will bring all your moral responsibility. However, I would like to say something that has led to a wrong look, that according to the testimony of Raiffeisen-General Konrad, in July of last year – when the BAWAG process was still running – you should have made an offer in a Vienna guest house during a personal conversation before witnesses during a lunch that you can become a minister of justice. If this is the case – and I already hope for clarification from your side – then this is a very strange process, because who determines ministerial offices then? Then who controls this government? Who really is behind this government? Is it perhaps a "Giebelkreuz regime" that we can perceive there? Who, then, is the political power in the country, who does not make a choice, but obviously tries to pull the threads in the background, or does it actually pull? – We will have to ask these questions very well and hopefully also receive correct answers to them. As far as your duties are concerned, we will measure you by your actions. We know the statements of intent from this government to the satisfaction, in particular from the Federal Chancellor and from the Vice-Chancellor. We particularly welcome the fact that you want to be more dedicated to child protection and child pornography. We cannot do enough to protect the weakest in our society and our children. The fight against corruption must also be fought decisively. As far as the criminal frameworks for crimes against body and life are concerned, we hope that optimization and improvement will take place, because the people often understand the minor punishments that are sometimes pronounced today, not with God anymore. Justice also suffers from a lack of personnel. In an interview, they announced “like a lion ” to want to fight resources. – We will see if you are successful. I say that we also need a corresponding increase in the staff of the judicial guards, but also an optimization of equipment for the judicial guards, which has been very rainy in recent years – above all also the no longer existing former SPÖ Justice Minister. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Do your best, Mrs. Justice Minister! We will observe you closely. If it is necessary and you also do good work, you will of course receive our support. However, if criticism should be made, we will, of course, raise our voices loud.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e10633	Mr Klubobmann's head is next spoken. 9 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e10654	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, especially Mrs Minister of Justice! High house! The most important task of the State is to protect the freedom of citizens. People in Austria must at any time be able to rely on a strong, efficient rule of law, that is, to rely on the right to remain right with us. A modern, efficient, reliable rule of law, which is the best basis for security, for the quality of the location and also for the quality of life of the people in our country. Right, ladies and gentlemen, also means protection – that is to say protection – from unauthorized intervention of the state into the lives of people. The state should serve our freedom, but it should not stand in the way of it. That is, for all these reasons which I have now mentioned, the independence of justice is a very valuable asset, and only an independent judicial system can actually ensure that, as I have already said, law remains right in our country too. In addition to the independence of justice, there is also a need for a particular degree of closeness to citizens in justice. This is important because the level of acceptance of the rule of law and justice is still in the midst of people's lives. Ladies and gentlemen, the trust of citizens in the rule of law is probably the most valuable resource for law and order in us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! After 53 years, Austria will again receive a judge at the head of the judicial department. Claudia Bandion-Ortner comes from the innermost circle and from the innermost core of justice. For many Austrians in recent years, it has become something like a trustee of the Austrian rule of law. The party observer of the ÖVP, Sepp Pröll, has with the nomination of Claudia Bandion-Ortner ensures that Austria is given a Minister of Justice independent of party policy. [[Abg. Strache: Was it not the Mr. Konrad? Was it Mr. Konrad or not?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we from the ÖVP have thus exercised our right to propose the judicial body in a very state-politically responsible way while also showing courage, namely courage for an innovative human solution. – Welcome to this resort, Mag. Claudia Bandion-Ortner! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to ensuring an independent, civil justice system, the judicial body is like hardly any other but also a central place for the design of the legal framework in our country. Many jurisdictions are based on this ministry, and they are of fundamental importance for the co-existence of people in our country. The judicial body must not, therefore, be an ideology resort. - That's what we've had. [[Abg. Bucher: In the last government we had that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law is not an instrument for the enforcement of party policy, quite the contrary: Rather, it is intended to protect us from the fact that our rights of freedom are cut short by ideologically motivated state measures. The judicial body is not, however, an institution for those who have lost the scale of protection in the rule of law – the victims or the perpetrators. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the area of justice is also not a place for fearmakers and populists on the other side of the political spectrum. The protection of our legal system applies to all those who are here in Austria, and that will not be agitated by us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are numerous reform projects waiting for our new Minister of Justice. We have kept very many of them in the government programme, which is now to be tackled. When I spoke about the protection function of the rule of law earlier, it is clear that, for example, we must pay particular attention to improving the protection of personal rights. This also includes the protection of the media law of victims of criminal acts. Victims must not be the victims of the published opinion, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must also, in general, turn to the protection of the victims. This includes, for example, the priority of the victim’s claims for damages – also prioritizing the execution of public-hand fines. The victims first, this must also apply in financial terms. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] In order to strengthen the protection of the victims, I therefore particularly welcome it. Ladies and gentlemen, our new Minister of Justice has called for a fight to protect children – ‘child pornography’. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the SPÖ representatives, as well as of the Agg. Ing. Hofer.]] The weakest members of our society – and these are the children – need the best protection. This is a central concern for us in the ÖVP family party. [[Abg. Weinzinger: What are you? But I'm amazed!]] We also need to respond to a phenomenon, Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that perpetrators are getting younger and younger and that, above all, the awareness of the injustice must also be strengthened by the unmistakable, because we unfortunately find a lack of awareness of the injustice in other areas, for example in areas of traditional violence. What counts and has to count in Austria is our right. Traditions, beliefs, or religion can never justify an act of violence, and they must never be recognized as punishing. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Weinzinger.]] That is, the range of topics that lie on our new Minister of Justice's desk is broad. It's also a lot to pick up. It is a lot to do for a strong, reliable, modern rule of law and for ensuring the high standards we enjoy in terms of the independence of our justice. I'm convinced that Mag. Claudia As the Federal Minister for Justice, Bandion-Ortner will not only deal with these tasks excellently, but will also set new standards as a personality. Mrs. Federal Minister, we welcome you here in the legislative body of the Republic of Austria! We look forward to a fruitful and intensive cooperation and wish you every success! Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e10784	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. Also 9 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e10845	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear members of the government! High house! The BZÖ has always advocated a party-free independent judicial system. That is why we can allow you, Mrs Mag. Bandion-Ortner, very welcome to the Hohe Haus. We appreciate your expertise, which brings you to face the great challenges associated with this office – from new family law to economic law, you have a wide range of tasks and challenges, which also brings time. We believe that you can deliver a very good performance, which you have finally already shown in the BAWAG process. We also very much insist that you do not get a party political impact, as was the case with your predecessor, who has not always acted in all areas as a minister of justice should expect. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hello, hello!]] We have heard with great satisfaction from your first statements in the public that you want to take special care of the protection of children. This is also a heart attack of the BZÖ. I was somewhat less pleased that you also wanted to review a charge made by Mr Kärnten's head of state. I am very much in doubt about this, because one, I believe, may in all cases be presumptuous: If any accusation had been justified, then she would have been in the past, because Mrs Minister of Justice Berger had not left out a moment to harm Carinthia in any way. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then you wouldn't have waited!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I may accept this as given, although from the point of view of Carinthian we say that this local panel problem at the federal level is very often misunderstood, for whatever reason. In any case, there is no local panel conflict in Carinthia. – I can tell you that from this point of view. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is a sincere decision by the Carinthian Landtag of December last year – that is, it is only a few weeks old – that there must be no other bilingual town boards in Carinthia, ladies and gentlemen! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] The BZÖ is a guarantee that this will not happen either. To understand, I believe that we are also proud of the Slovenian people's group, the Slovenian Carinthia, which is particularly appreciated by the Living together with these two groups, and that's a lot – for example, a lot! – is done in Carinthia. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Why don't you want the town boards?]] [[Calls at the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Josef Cap prevented this! Personally!]] Finally, the ‘three wise men’ from Brussels confirmed this in 2001: Nowhere in this country will there be so much money for education policy, for the children, for schools as in Carinthia. This means that in Carinthia there is an exemplary popular group policy in which other countries can take an example. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] But Austria is facing much greater problems in the face of the economic crisis, given the financial crisis, and these major challenges, especially the rules of the game, will also be a major challenge for the Minister of Justice – for you, Mrs Magister. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (on Abg. Dr. Cap points out that at the government bank with Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner speaks) Josef Cap influences the Minister of Justice! That's not Mrs. Berger, Mr. Cap!]] That is why we want to motivate this federal government to finally take action after a month and a half, as you are now complete. The honeymoons are over. Mr Faymann and Mr Pröll, at last you can throw up the machines, also motivate the employees. Mr Obama should be a illustrious example to you. He has already made important decisions before he was in office and dignity. You've been in office for a month and a half, and we're waiting for big government documents. If we did not have a wealth of opposition parties' requests, we would not know what we should be discussing today and tomorrow in the House. That's the truth! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They are doing short work on the part of the Federal Government, and this is not a piece of fame in view of the difficult situation, namely a recession that we are referring to in Austria. The population is expecting actions, expecting you to finally tackle this economic crisis, to stimulate the economy, to see that these measures you have taken up to date have remained ineffective. The economic packages have passed in the sand. You're ineffective! They do not show any investment in the market at all. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Also the purchasing power is not strengthened, nor is it strengthened with these €2.2 billion of the tax relief package that you have strapped. And above all, you have a completely misunderstanding, namely to interpret the bank rescue package in such a way that it is also adopted by the real economy. It is not a question of saving the banks primarily, but it is primarily a question of providing the economy with the capital again so that it can work so that jobs can be secured so that investment can be made. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] This economic package is a big favor! And that's easy to imagine. It's useless if you define a degressive depreciation. What's the use of an entrepreneur? Even if you give him a 50 percent investment premium, this does not benefit the entrepreneur because he does not get the other 50 percent he needs for this investment – from no bank. That means that this investment is totally empty. Finally, you have to make sure the banks spend the money, lock up the safes, make the money available to the economy again. It would be important now to ensure that the economy is provided with fresh money even in the course of a banking summit. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs. Justice Minister, you have an essential role to play. You have taken a lot of things into your position from the BAWAG process, I believe. We need clear rules. We need clear laws that can be executed and controlled. There are toothless supervisory boards in countless banks that do not even ask questions. There are state commissioners who must not even ask questions. In other words, control is not possible in a wide range of areas, even with banks. We want to make sure that the money will not be lost in the future, but that credit trade will also be suspended among the banks, that no assets in the companies can be confused with fantasy values, but that there will be clear rules for the banks that manage our money in the future, and that they will primarily make the money they have available to the real economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e11021	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I use this opportunity to wish you all and all the fellow citizens who are connected to us through the media a good new year and all of us wise choices for people in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Lei lead!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e11065	Mr President. High house! Thank you very much for the congratulations. They are also entitled in mid-January. . I would like to take a brief look at the comments made by my previous speaker before I can then warmly welcome the Minister here in the House. I would have liked your speech when it came to the Hypo Alpe-Adria in Carinthia. [[Abg. Bucher: It already makes the money available to the economy! They were against it!]] You could have taken a huge part in the BZÖ. But coming here and playing the “Mister Klug” is a bit late. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: BAWAG!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Down to the neck in the BAWAG swamp!]] I'm just saying this, because maybe these are your findings from the events surrounding the Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Abg. Bookbooker: No new topic!]] – I don’t understand this nervousness right now, but maybe to the second point. [[Abg. Bucher: Androsch is the economic advisor of Faymann!]] I would warn that if we were to have a bank debate in the direction of drawing apocalyptic images here. That doesn't make any sense at all. What we need now is trust. What we need is that the banks really start to work. [[Abg. Blow: Shoot the money into smoking!]] I believe that the government has taken steps, unanimously here in the house, to support and strengthen the banks. If law violations occur, then anyway the independent justice which you and I have so praised is required to take these steps. That is beyond doubt. But to sow distrust, apocalyptic images, that you say the bank comet comes, and, dear Austrians, be careful, who knows how long the Austrian banks can still be active and liquid, that is simply irresponsible and will at least not be able to bring about a turn in economic development! [[Abg. Street: Don't give our government money to banks!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I would now like to come to the real subject and say the following: Mrs. Maria Berger left behind a really well ordered house, and here she was very committed to her work. [[Call at BZÖ: Bad politics made!]] [[Abg. Strange: The government’s “female broda” is fortunately no longer here!]] Minister Berger has conducted her budget negotiations very successfully – and everyone will be very happy at the House of Justice – so that the procedures with the corresponding commitment, with the appropriate speed, can be carried out and are really given the opportunity to do so. And Minister Berger has also taken many positive steps: The violence package has already been mentioned here. [[Call at BZÖ: We've been waiting for a year and a half!]] The establishment of the judicial ombudsmen was also one of the points. On this occasion, I would like to warmly welcome the new Minister of Justice, Mrs Claudia Bandion-Ortner, here in the House, a competent, very committed judge, who has really carried out her previous activity with great commitment and who will certainly also be able to bring experience and knowledge into her work in the Ministry of Justice. Because the previous speakers said independent justice, no party-political influence. . I assume that the Minister will meet this exact profile. What I strangely found in Mr Bucher's speech was that he immediately threatened that there was no charge coming from the Ministry of Justice. [[Abg. Bucher: I didn't say that!]] - Well, it is! – So if justice is independent, then there cannot be anyone here on the side of politics, and once again make rules and threaten that there is no charge in one causa that concerns Carinthia! This is the case of justice. And it's a completely independent process in progress here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are to blame that there is no local panel solution in Carinthia!]] There are no threats from the speaker's seat here in the House. That was clearly stated here once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You prevented it! Incredible!]] As we know, there has been very intense discussions in the government negotiations for this government programme. The judicial section covers 26 pages. I think that what Mr Vice-Chancellor said here is very much being done in the Ministry of Justice, and that this is a very interesting and also an area on which we can also discuss a lot of things, proves that family jurisdiction and youth jurisdiction are important, that it has also been a matter of combating corruption, and that there are many areas that are very crucial. There is a point in the reform of family law, which is certainly also to be considered under the positive concept of ‘social policy’, namely the strengthening of the position of children in patchwork families, where the involvement of stepparents in the responsibility of the child is concerned, where it is important to improve child support and ensure that a maintenance advance is always possible if there is a maintenance claim. In short: This is also social policy. This is also the strengthening of this modern development in the family sector, where there are various forms and a variety of family structures, where legal support and, of course, in the field of justice, the appropriate regulatory measures in Parliament and in implementation are also to be taken. I think this is positive because there are many advanced elements. And this also includes the question of gender partnerships, where there will finally be an appropriate partnership law, where discrimination will be eliminated and real equality will have to be established – also a point where I believe it is about social policy, which was not undisputed, where many, many, many years of discussion have been made here. I can remember that there has been – not once – a vote here in the House, where there has previously been intense discussions on this subject. I am very glad that this programme of future government work also contributes to this point and many other points in order to work on further modernisation of the law so that we can really refer to the further modernisation of our society and to the introduction of reality and reality. The package of anti-violence legislation – I find it particularly positive, Mrs. Minister, that at the beginning of your work as “protection of the child, protection of children” – is a very essential point where I believe that your predecessor, Maria Berger, too, has done a lot of preparatory work and has really done a lot of things. This is also an aspect that is important. It will be in your work for the next time to improve the legal status of the victim. It will be an effective fight against corruption – a very essential point that, as I believe, requires special care here. It will also deal with the fight against so-called criminal tourism. We are very glad that we can assume that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior will surely find a good cooperation here. The fight against criminal tourism is also something that is particularly important to the Austrians, because they want security, because they want not only efficient security based on the police and their tasks, but also from the judiciary. They expect that there are clear and just judgments that the judicial system is actually fulfilling its mission. And they will certainly do the same. Another aspect is that criminal protection against racism and xenophobia must be made even more effective. I would like to make a few more points, which are particularly important to me and where I believe that there are still many other important points in the government programme. So we can assume: Justice is a very essential area on the ground of the Constitution, on the ground of the laws. In any case, it will do its work without political influence. And, of course, as always in the past, it will also be under a public observation, even a public discourse. It is also possible to assume that there are public debates in the many measures planned – they are also to be controversial. Here is also the place, here in Parliament, where these discussions are being held in the implementation of these issues, where we look carefully in the committees to draw up the best legislative proposals for Austria. I assume that this will be possible in the future, and the Minister wishes everything good and good.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e11296	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e11317	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Federal Government! Mrs. Justice Minister, you are taking on an interesting task – also a difficult task. A difficult task, therefore, because with the Coalition Agreement, red and black have tied a backpack to you, which you now have to finish. You have two options: Either you work off this red-black backpack or you set your own accents. – My expectation is relatively clear: Put your own accents on the coalition agreement in the field of justice! No one would understand if you were just going here and working out what others have given you. That means quite clearly: Are you just doing what you have been given, or are you really the independent Minister of Justice who will go her own way? – This is the crucial question. We will measure this on a number of points, and very quickly will show you what path you have chosen. First question: What is your position on the ÖVP project to further expand the surveillance state in Austria? It contains a passage in the Government Agreement, which provides for the possibility of online search. In this way, Austria achieves a debate that is already being held in Germany, namely the debate about the Federal Trojan. This is a staggering software to spy out computer data. And many experts assume that this software will not fulfill its purpose, because those who are involved – terrorists, organized crime – will protect themselves against this software, and what remains is the risk of abuse and overwhelming use. Therefore, the crucial question – let us discuss it directly – is: Are you the extended arm of the Interior Minister? Or will you position yourself as a lobbyist of the rule of law? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second question, Mrs Minister for Justice: Becoming As a political person, do you ensure that the prosecutors can work consistently in delicate proceedings? There will be some delicate procedures in the near future. Some examples: the criminal proceedings against Mensdorff-Pouilly, a weapons lobbyist from the dark circle of the ÖVP. The subject of investigations: Suspicion of money laundering and bribery in connection with Eurofighter procurement. – We will be very quick on the subject of party financing. Perhaps even now the SPÖ can understand why we were not happy with the change of the Ministry of Justice from SPÖ to ÖVP. But it is up to you, Mrs Justice Minister, to dispel these concerns. Second example: Criminal proceedings against Grasser and Julius Meinl. – Another person from the area near the ÖVP. The subject is relatively clear in connection with the Minister of Finance: serious fraud and infidelity in connection with Meinl European Land and Meinl International Power. It's just about the question: Have thousands of small investors in this country been blinded and shut down by the name of the Minister of Finance? – To clarify this procedure. Since 2007, there has been an advertisement, but no results. And here again, Mrs Justice Minister, it is up to you to make it clear that good contacts with politics do not, at least, protect them from being consistently and quickly examined. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Next example – this time not in the close range and this time not in the dark circle of the ÖVP, but in the heart of the ÖVP –: the former Minister of the Interior Platter. Subject-matter of proceedings: Suspicion of official abuse. – Rückblende, 2007: For the first time, the family comes Zogaj in the media debate, and the Ministry of the Interior in the Defense. Something has happened, which is unique to the rule of law: The police computer was heavily occupied, there were queries. And the next day, an unprecedented media offensive of the Ministry of the Interior began to influence the public mood against the Zogaj family. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] That is the subject of this procedure. There were 38 consents. This process has also been running since 2007 – without results. Mrs Bundesminister, here again the request: The authorities are to examine this consistently. Next and last example: the criminal proceedings against the prosecutor Schön. - This thing is less known here. One day the lawyer Eichenseder comes to the prosecutor Schön and hands over to him – he represents a prom lawyer in a divorce war – a fine. Only this procedure is unusual. Usually, such a criminal offence occurs at the place of entry. As it turns out, oak cedars and beautiful good friends are. As it turns out further, Beautiful is not in itself responsible for this criminal offence. He's pulling the fine. This has the advantage of indirectly becoming responsible for a criminal ad against the prom lawyer. What does the non-competent prosecutor do? – He filed an ad against the prom lawyer and filed a complaint against the wife of the prom lawyer. My appeal is also relatively clear: It's up-to-date and researched. Is that the tip of an iceberg, or is that an individual case? – It is your responsibility to get light into the dark here. And so that there is no misunderstanding, I have a scrambled extent of distance. I do not demand that certain results be achieved by the prosecutor's office, but I want to know one thing: I want you to ensure that the prosecutor can consistently determine these delicate proceedings and then, in the sense of the rule of law, take the necessary steps in one direction or another. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have also read with some joy, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you want to devote yourself to the fight against corruption. I would ask you to take a look at the Government Convention, because there is also a subject for the fight against corruption. There is talk of precision and adaptation, and the “learned Austrian” knows that when some politicians talk about “precision” and “adaptation”, they mean the easing of the corruption rules. And that's exactly the case here. We have here decided very strict penalties for corruption – and under the term “cultural sponsorship”, these strict rules on corruption are now to be eased again as regards the acceptance of gifts from officials. I hope you'll put counter-acts here. – All points where you can profile where you can show that you are independent that you are not the extended arm of a party. Make sure that the anti-corruption public prosecutorship can act independently, that it is made wise! There is a need for reform. Solve the financing questions! With regard to the anti-corruption public prosecutorship, a reservation of funding is set out in the government programme, and that means that the whole must be financed by the judicial body's discretionary budget. This is impossible because, first of all, there is already a tense situation because, second of all, the Finance Ministers want to cut this discretion budget by 5 percent and, secondly, because there are many other demands that also need to be realized. I only mention the following: Funding of parole aid, child assistance, youth court objectives – all projects that need to be implemented. That is, Mrs Federal Minister, here too you will really have to fight like a lion, against your own Finance Minister, in order to ensure the budgeting of justice. There are 500 planning places missing! I wish you all the best and look forward to your explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e11435	Next, I give Mrs. Mag. Bandion-Ortner the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e11457	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It would be a lie if I said I'm not nervous now. It is already a moving moment to be able to speak here in the House for the first time. Although – a bit unusual is already, I have to tell you quite honestly, with the calls and so on. It was different in the courtroom. I'm gonna have to stay quiet here, and I'm probably going to have a hard time, but I'm gonna get used to it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Justice is the business card of a state. – You cannot pronounce this sentence often enough. It is therefore very, very important – and I also look towards finance ministers – that justice be equipped with the necessary human and material resources. This can be confirmed by my judicial colleagues, who are visiting here today – which I am very pleased about too. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But of course you also have to check internally: Where can there be access to resources in justice? Judges and prosecutors should determine that they should judge, but they should not necessarily carry out administrative tasks. I have enjoyed my judicial independence for 15 years, and I would like to continue to do so with independence. I really want to keep in touch with all parties, including experts from all parties in my projects. Keywords Projects. What are my projects? – Of course, the government program is the basis for my work. I agree with the government programme, otherwise I would not have taken up this office, but I also have my own ideas, my own goals, which I would like to achieve quickly. Priority is protection by law, and this will be carried out through all legal areas, through all areas of legislation, application of law, implementation of law. Rights and laws are not static, one has to adapt the law to the spirit of time, and this will show up in various reform projects. For example: GmbH law needs to be changed, company start-ups need to be simplified. We need to follow an international trend here so that Austria's economic location remains really attractive. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Changes in insolvency law are envisaged. I would also like to create a modern, efficient main and legal proceedings in criminal proceedings. I am particularly concerned about the reform of laity; I am thinking here in particular of jury jurisdiction. Family law reform, implementation of the family law package, the anchoring of patchwork families in the law – something also very important. What else do I think? – For example, corruption law, a subject that has recently caused great excitement, a very sensitive issue, I admit. The fight against corruption is a major concern of me, because corruption is a creeping poison for the rule of law and the economy. [[Complementary with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The first step is to: The corruption prosecutor's office has begun its work; it still needs to be equipped with the necessary resources. Of course, it is still necessary to clarify the law of corruption. That is so, because there is still the highest uncertainty. It may not be that any sponsorship performance will be criminalised. That's not the right way! [[Complementary with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] But we really have to be very sensitive here, that will certainly be a legal challenge. As you have already learned from the media, the protection of children is a special concern to me. Children are the weakest link in society, they belong protected from sexual assaults, from violent assaults. [[Complementary with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I would like to strengthen the fight against child pornography by creating a new state of action: It is also intended to criminalise the mere reputation of child pornography, knowing access to such websites, because one has to fight the evil at the root. [[Congratulation with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ]] I really want to implement this project very quickly, I would like to implement it within the framework of the second package of violence – that is, soon. Other concerns, for example, are the institutionalisation of the child assistance, changes in the maintenance advance law or, of course, the prevention of youth crime. I am of course very concerned about rising youth crime, just like you, but that is a very complex problem. My colleague, Mrs Fekter, and I will not be able to solve this problem alone. Schools, teachers, youth organisations, youth offices are also in demand. [[Abg. Weinzinger: A question of the intact family!]] We all have to pull one strand together. It is certainly not the only way to lock up children, it is certainly not the only all-healing remedy to lower the mouth of punishment, but I am thinking of court-law measures against criminal unmistakables. It is important to teach young people in age that this is not right what they are doing, and that they treat other people as they would like to be treated themselves. [[In the case of ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ, as well as the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Another concern for me is the security in the execution of punishment, the security inward and outward; Security for the population, as well as security for our law enforcement officers. Our executive officers in Austria really have a very, very difficult job, they really do bravouroses. I think they have to be protected, too. I am thinking, for example, of the expansion of the staff level, but also of the more efficient use of existing resources. The reintroduction of the Taser is a very sensitive topic. There are opinions, there are reports of experience that are now being evaluated, and I promise you to join the experts of all parties in this matter. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to take a brief look at the comments made by Mr Strache: I didn't even know that Advocate General Konrad had to give Minister Posts. That is not true either, I would like to hold it in advance, but we are still talking, Mr Strache. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: weren't you in the inn?]] Last but not least: It is the State's obligation to protect citizens by means of law. That's why I'd say: Let's do it together! And one more thing: You know, Justitia wears an eyeband – I think she should wear glasses in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e11581	I call Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e11603	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Minister, welcome here in the House and also congratulate you on your first speech! We all look forward to working together here. You have been the first judge to take over this office for years, and I believe that your remarks have already shown how important it is, especially in this sensitive issue of judicial policy, where, of course, social policy is being carried out to a very special extent, to deal with each other very objectively, to seek discussion and to involve at least emotionality. Mrs. Minister, I congratulate you on your house, too. The Ministry of Justice, together with all its experts, is certainly a very good, a very forward looking, a very international ministry, which is why we always manage to present top positions of content in the international interplay in Europe. However, I should also like to mention that you are taking over a well-ordered house, as Mrs Berger has developed justice very carefully, very Europeanally, very internationally and very carefully. You have said here today that we are facing the implementation of the violence package, we are facing the implementation of a new family law package – and this is also due, of course, to the fact that these preparatory work has been carried out, which can be finally implemented. We are also confronted again and again with the fact that the ombudsman's office is very well received in the field of justice, which is why I am pleased, Mrs Minister, that you, as you have mentioned, are interested in expanding this position. We have been able, for the first time, by setting up an independent body in the judiciary, to create a contact point for many citizens if they have some question about individual procedures if they are dissatisfied with procedures. Nothing is necessary for legal peace, legal certainty, as well as a corresponding point of contact. The anticorruption law has been addressed. I think it's good that we have an anticorruption law firm. I also like that there in the future a pronounced personality takes the lead and devotes itself to this very important segment. However, I can also agree with you, Mrs Minister: We have designed the current legislation in such a way that it is often necessary to say in the discussion: In interpreting these anti-corruption provisions, we must first wait for what the Supreme Court says. – This leads to legal uncertainty and is ultimately not foreseeable what the legislator wants, what the legislator really wanted. I think ladies and gentlemen, you will all agree to me: It cannot be acceptable for a parliament to explain to the legislator itself more or less: We do not know what we really meant by this regulation, the Supreme Court, the case law, is to create a system, with all appreciation, of course, of jurisdiction! I think it is foolishly important to try to eliminate these insecurity factors, because in practice it has really come to mean that very important sponsoring activities for art and for sport have been frozen more or less in many areas. This, of course, harms the location as a whole. These are not major cultural events such as the Salzburg Festival, but they are small-scale, they are sports clubs that are very important. We have never actually thought that the law, as we have decided, is going in this direction and is prohibitive. Ladies and gentlemen, it has also been referred to youth jurisdiction, the fight against increasing violence. Mrs. Minister, you have us everywhere at your side, where it is about fighting violence in the family, violence in society, against elbow technology, that the stronger one shows that he is right to enforce. That's not a question at all. However, I should also like to point out that at the time we took a priority with the Jugendgerichtshof, with our youth jurisdiction in Europe, which has identified us as a lighthouse. From all over Europe, experts came to the Jugendgerichtshof because we succeeded in intercepting young people who were threatening to get on the wrong track. The most important thing is that young people who are at risk of becoming criminal are really taking all measures, using good judges, good prosecutors, but also psychologists, creating an environment that ensures that the potential for crime is reversed, thus limiting violence. That's very important. We have a second very important issue, which is the current global economic situation. – Ladies and gentlemen, of course, this comes from the USA, of course, because, obviously, without control measures, without capital market rules of sufficient nature, it was possible to provide completely absurd loans; Loans to people who could never repay them. That was known. These loans were more or less of an economic value that never existed. When this scaffolding was broken down, the whole system was no longer eligible for funding, and of course we all suffer today. But – and this has already been mentioned – there have also been some unfortunate developments in Austria; Meinl has been addressed, Immofinanz is also one of the issues where it can be seen that developments have taken place here that would have been preventable. It is absolutely unacceptable that thousands of small investors have been damaged by measures that were intrusive, by the advance of measures. They can all remember what we saw on television about the company Meinl: Don't give up your savings. Swine, we've got something better! – The people have laid up a lot and then fell over their entire deposits. I can't do that, Mrs. Federal Minister! We will therefore jointly have directives to draw up capital market directives so that this will no longer work in the future. We will create framework conditions by means of transparency and appropriate focus – justice can do so – which will prevent such things in the future. A good judicial policy can, and will contribute to overcoming this current economic crisis in Austria, that we can achieve it and that at the end of the crisis, we have created the situation that we can re-start with full force into the future. We can do this together. Mrs. Minister, we're here on your side.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e11672	Next, Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e11693	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, especially Mrs Neo-Minister Bandion-Ortner! Ladies and gentlemen! If we were to sit down and try to find an ideal profile for a minister of justice or, in a specific case, a minister of justice, the following criteria would certainly be found: Of course, it should be professionally competent and also experienced in the wide and diverse field of justice. It should be serious, but also calm enough to deal with problems and many conflicts that can happen in this field. It should, of course, – and I believe that this is particularly important – also be independent, especially in its opinion-making and decision-making. However, it should also be in the middle of life, open to society, for its development, commitment, stubborn and full of enforcement, and, of course, it should also be able to deal with people, be sympathetic, ready to explain problems, solutions, but also needs of those people who are affected. If you compare this profile with the newly praised Minister of Justice Claudia Bandion-Ortner, this comparison is likely to indicate that this job description of our new Minister of Justice is tailored to the body. Her professional competence and, of course, her experience as a judge were not only highlighted after this decision to include her as Minister of Justice in this Federal Government, all around, in and outside justice. Your experience has Mag. Bandion-Ortner as a judge in recent years has been demonstrated in some prominent cases that have been exposed to the public, but also in many other proceedings which have not been so prominent in the public. Her seriosity and her objectivity, but also her serenity in some cases of conflict and some provocations that we were able to experience last year in this well-known procedure, and which she will experience as a minister of justice, as a politician in the next few years, has already demonstrated how we could experience. May. Bandion-Ortner is party-independent and has once again stressed the importance of including all relevant, all concerned groups, but also all parties represented in Parliament in judicial work. I think this is a good, proven tradition, and I am glad that it will continue this tradition as well. That power. Bandion-Ortner is committed to being a real fighter nature, which nobody doubts anymore. In particular, Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, you, Mr. Sepp Pröll, will be the first to experience in the budget negotiations that a fighter nature will fight for the appropriate equipment of their resort. Not least – we could see that again today at their opening speech – is Mag. Bandion-Ortner a sympathetic woman, a young mother and someone who likes to deal with people and who likes to approach people. With one word, I really believe, an ideal occupation for this important place of business, for a key area for the security of our country and its citizens, but also for a key place of business for Austria – and therefore especially in this very critical situation in which we are located, for jobs in our country. Mrs. Justice Minister, you will also need these positive and promising qualities – and this should not be an advance lady’s bear – because the challenges lie ahead of us, and they are not small. These are the ones that really need all of our strength and which will not allow a long period of intervention. You have already mentioned the violence package: an important project to protect against violence and sexual abuse. In the area of family and maintenance rights, there is the need for adaptations and reforms. A balanced catalogue of penalties should be examined here. Citizens need to be protected even better and sufficiently from criminal and criminal offences. I believe that especially at a time when confidence in the capital market has been greatly weakened in recent months, it will also be necessary to set signals for greater transparency, for better participation of shareholders and shareholders. As chairman of the Parliamentary Justice Committee, I should like to welcome you, Mrs Federal Minister, to this House. I look forward to a good, successful cooperation and wish you all the best for your new task and very, very good success.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e11752	Next, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e11773	Mr President. Thank you very much for the New Year's wishes! We can all use them well. – High government bank! Dear Mrs Mag. Bandion-Ortner, you have left the "Wärmestube" as an independent judge and placed yourself in the "cold air" of politics. You have been given a lot of advance locust berries to whom I congratulate you and whom I like to join. I refer to the fact that in the first place you have rightly said among some other things that you have mentioned that you want to and will use massively for the material and human equipment of the courts. You have our fullest support here. I would just like to point out objectively that the judicial budget has an amount of about €1.1 billion available and about 70 or 80 percent as a quota earned by the justice itself. So the overhang is mainly due to investigations from the previous legislative period, mainly due to the high cost of criminal proceedings and 50 percent of foreign offenders again. We have already devoted ourselves to this subject a number of times. That is to say, in the direction of the Minister of Finance, who is unfortunately not present: From the point of view of a judicial politician, it is not acceptable that, especially in the case of justice, which is doubtful, as has been rightly said, a part and a substantial part of the country's business card, a savings programme must be carried out, because the income of justice goes to the general budget. That is, in fact, we currently have a net effort of €300 million from the general budget. As a result, I do not really make savings thoughts or savings intensities apply as they may be intended to apply to other resorts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, Mrs. Justice Minister, said that the intentional access to child pornography should be punishable in the future. That's what we support, that's quite clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I have so far been lacking nationally and internationally in the field of child pornography, which is one of the most disgusting things that have to be perceived worldwide, the attack on the root: That's the provider system. I demand that Austria be at the forefront of an international concern for child pornography and the provision in the field of the computer system! [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] With all determination, let us take the first step in Austria that any form of providership in the field of child pornography will be put under the strictest punishment! I call for Austria to become a spearhead at EU level and at the level of the United Nations, because it cannot be true that we are right to punish the individual perpetrator who downloads, punishes, but let the villains, who thus earn the money in the provider's field, get away with it unpunished! I can't! [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] I welcome the implementation of the violence package. A significant part of civil culture – the time is too short to speak to everything – is legal protection, as you have correctly said. In the area of criminal law, the right to criminal proceedings, I urgently seek the reform of the judicial procedure, which is very important. We currently have a criminal appeal, which is deep from the 19th century. ==References====External links== It is intertwined in artificial formalisms, which in some cases offer the possibility of disposing of justified remedies for purely formal reasons. I am, of course, referring to legal remedies in the area of court proceedings, which deal with the main part of criminal law. That's an essential point that I'm in favour of. In conclusion: It is one of the good cultures that have actually been maintained in Austria over the decades in order to achieve consistent solutions in the field of justice. It will not be missing in the participation of the Freedom Party in this point either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e11857	Next come Mr Magistrate. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e11879	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister, you don't need to be nervous. I don't understand why. You'd have to know half the plenary room soon. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – There are exactly The right thing to say, ladies and gentlemen. – As a chairperson in the Senate to hold the process on the BAWAG, half of the SPÖ Group would have to be known from the witness. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of BZÖ and FPÖ.]] You, Mrs. Justice Minister, have your own main witnesses, Mr. Sozialminister Hundstorfer, in the Federal Government. He won't really make you nervous. He didn't make you nervous in the negotiation hall either. The President himself was witness in the BAWAG process. So you already know half the SPÖ fraction. Mr Haberzettl, weren't you there too? I thought so. Col. Csörgits was, I think, also invited as a witness. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Half the house should be known to you from the BAWAG process. So you have no reason to be nervous here. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, on behalf of the Austrian people for having been praised so late, because your fishing observation has reminded us again that there is a new federal government at all. This has already been forgotten by the Austrian population. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This government sleeps and immerses itself in such a way that it is likely that in the future the Federal Government will be praised step by step so that it can be staged more and more. On today's agenda, we do not have any government paper from this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, any one! And tomorrow the agenda will be blessed with all two government documents from this baffling and sleeping Federal Government: One of them concerns the epochal delivery of media products to the National Library – an incredible topic! For this, this Federal Government has been working hard for a month and a half to regulate this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] We have a sleeping federal government. I think Josef Pröll and Werner Faymann live in the government after the foreign exchange: When we sleep, we can't argue, because that doesn't even bring sleepers together, and if you don't do anything, you can't argue about anything. This is the highest postulate of this government: just don't fight! That is to say, we will have nothing to expect from this Federal Government either. You, Mrs Bundesminister, must be the real exception, because hopefully you are not obliged either to Mr Pröll or to Mr Faymann. Neither does Mr Konrad; I do not believe that you are really – how proud you are, but you do not! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] You, Mrs. Justice Minister, are the hope-holder of this federal government that the house will really get something from you. I have a long wish list, as you know. What you plan to protect the children has my fullest support, I tell you as a sixfold family father. I want you to know the old proposals I've already made as a popular lawyer. Their ministry has responded to what the general maintenance advance has reached. The SPÖ did it once and then shoved it again, because there is nothing in the government programme in this regard. For a time, your ladies from your giant, Mr. Cap, have taken up this idea of improving the situation of single mothers and single parents by not having to run to court. You have to have a job, you often can't pay the rent anymore, you don't know how to raise the children, and then you have to stay in court all the time because the dependant does not comply with other parents' obligation. There, ladies and gentlemen, would be a lot to regulate. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There's also a lot to do in the prisons, you said that yourself. If I look at the criminal statistics that last year alone some 10,000 asylum seekers – according to the criminal statistics of your colleague Dr. Fekter – became criminal, every third criminal is virtually a foreigner, then I must tell you that the old Bohemian proposal to build prisons in the countries which are the main countries of origin of the offenders is to be taken up again. This has been a good idea for the colleague. Unfortunately Berger has let him sleep again. Do that because there is much less attractive the execution than with us! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You know that I support Mr Pilz's proposals, which lead to the fight against financial sharks, that I support with my group all attempts to stop the pyramid games, this fraud, mass fraud. I myself still have the wish that not only the colleague Dr. Winter will apply § 188 StGB when it comes to Mr Muhammad, but also that the § 188, who has been dead until now, should be revived with regard to the protection of our religious symbols, ladies and gentlemen. In the last “profile” number before Christmas, a whole collection of criminal acts was included, as one believes, to be able to make Catholic religion contemptible. Among the proposals of the judicial group are very good proposals: to improve the leave process, to move more closely to the notarial system, so as to relieve courts. There are very good proposals in connection with the discharge of the courts which have been sent to you by the Notarial Chamber. I don't want to repeat them all here. I have held individual talks with the Board of Notes, I only mention as a keyword the strengthening of the notarial in the extraditional proceedings, the discharge of the courts also in connection with the leave process, for example by the stronger role that the exit curator could play. The proposals made by the Notarial Chamber in the field of the improvement of the spouse in inheritance law also merit great attention. Here there is a great expectation potential in your direction. Or another proposal is the introduction of a subscription right to improve the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which, through Basel II, can simply and simply hardly afford more security. For the listener: It's about a registration fee for moving things, not in the base book. Facilitations in corporate transfers and corporate transfers are also a large and important area. Mrs. Federal Minister! I have expressed our hope that you may be at least the only remaining active part of this federal government. Do not let us be disappointed, you are our last hope in the government!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e12027	Mr Pilz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e12048	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Federal Minister, welcome to this House! Of course, get You have the confidence advance you have requested from our group. I would only strongly recommend that you prove yourself worthy of this trust today, and make a few proposals to that effect. The first proposal is: Quickly make it clear how it is possible for a Czech refugee to be executed in Vienna without any protection by the Austrian executive and through the constitutional protection, despite several intensive warnings! What happened here? What happened here at the Ministry of the Interior? And is it true that in the run-up to this order murder, several times a high officer of the Russian Home Secret Service in the Ministry of Interior and Constitutional Protection was? Is it true that the Russian Domestic Intelligence Service wanted to get data from Czech refugees in Austria? And is it right that discussions and negotiations have been held on this very matter? Mrs. Minister for Justice and, in this case, Mrs. Federal Minister for the Interior! We also have the right to receive answers to these questions in the interests of public security and the rule of law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It cannot be that a contract murder and its political and administrative backgrounds remain unexplained! Secondly, Ms. Minister of Justice! I call on you to act on the Ministry of the Interior and the leading officials of the Ministry of the Interior to return to the interests of the public security of the Republic of Austria and not primarily in the interests of the security of the Austrian People's Party! You yourself know that in your home and in your criminal courts, a large part of the head of the Ministry of the Interior is led to criminal proceedings. Mr Mathias Vogl, Head of the Legal Section in the Ministry of the Interior, is himself accused of an important criminal procedure. Former Minister of the Interior Günther Platter is accused in an important criminal proceedings – and I could continue the list. We have a big problem, and I just call you a number: In the time when the ÖVP took over and led the Ministry of the Interior, the investigation rate for mass crimes such as burglary theft fell to half! Last week, a high-level criminal officer sent me an e-mail that I would like to publish separately, I quote only briefly: Unfortunately, it no longer counts the investigation, but the personal development of individual officials. Interesting is not the criminal statistics, but the security monitor, and there we can see that we can no longer win the fight against the crime. That's what a leading criminal officer says. Ms. Justice Minister, you will see that the situation is dramatic, and it is necessary to act on the fact that there is again an objective and only mandatory leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, the Austrian police and, in particular, the criminal police. The problem is that in the Ministry of the Interior and in parts of the Justice – and this is the next point I am addressing – not the abuses are being pursued, but those that expose the abuses. This started in small duty, goes on to Haidinger, and I'm going to tell you another case today. I have a letter from the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna to the Office for Internal Affairs of 6. October 2008 before in which prosecutor Christian Walzi urged, on the basis of a criminal complaint by former Minister of the Interior Ernst Strasser in the affair to have the so-called Strasser emails seized my computer. This is from the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is really a scandal! That's incredible what's happening there!]] I will then present this document to you, Mrs Minister of Justice. The BIA officials were with me, they asked me if the so-called Strasser e-mails were on this computer. [[the speaker keeps a laptop up to date]] At that time they were not on it, and he was not seized. I'm just telling you one thing, so that we can stick to the duty of truth: Today, the so-called Strasser e-mails are on this computer, and you will have to decide whether a Member's computer is confiscated or whether you are willing to respect parliamentary control with all its consequences and, if necessary, to protect against politically run prosecutors! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the BZÖ.]] In this sense too, Mrs Federal Minister, I wish you – and the Austrian Parliament! – a lot of success in your work! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e12121	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:01:35]] 2. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on Austrian EU Policy
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e12151	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. Following the statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister on Austrian EU policy, a debate will take place in line with this request. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to make his statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e12182	Mr President. Members of the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The European declaration and the important issues to be discussed by us and to be included in the European policy, on which we are also called to take a position, but also to report on it, are diverse. I therefore agreed with the Foreign Minister on a division of topics, which does not mean that he would not be interested in the issues of economic policy and energy policy, or that I would not be in the same degree of commitment to the area of the Middle East or to the acceptance of the European Union in general, but it is merely an expression of respect for the House not to report the same. I would now like to make a few comments on the economic situation. I am convinced that European cooperation in the fight against the economic crisis will remain the main issue, at least this year, and I regret that. I can still remember that a few months ago – in my capacity as Minister of Infrastructure at the time – I said that the economic researchers bring an even worse one every time they make a new prognosis. I believe that if we use the word “recession” in this economic crisis, then we are right without wanting to spread the matter bad or even panic. In fact, the latest interim forecasts of the European Commission are of the 19th century. In January 2009, Austria has a minus of GDP – which is still growth, but is actually a minus – of 1.2 percent, such as 1.9 percent for the euro area and 1.8 percent for the EU-27. Now someone could say: In short, Austria is doing better than the other EU countries on average and in the euro area. In the unemployment rate, too, the euro area is in an extremely worrying situation, according to the latest forecast of 9.3 percent, because it is important to think about the many people concerned. It is important not only to deal with the percentages, but also to see how many millions of people are affected by unemployment, younger and older people, and their hopelessness in their economic situation, but also their emotional constitution because of it. It is also necessary to consider which, including social, disbalance would arise if the unemployment rate were to actually reach these percentages in the euro area, because, in addition to the unemployed people, a high proportion of people are indirectly affected, either by precarious working conditions or by less good working conditions, where these people are at the border with unemployment or at the involuntary part-time. Even if 5.1 percent are forecast for Austria, this figure, which is better than that for the euro area or the EU-27, where 8.7 percent is the case, can in no way lead us to satisfaction or clarification. There are the economic policies to be taken in the European Union, which must be strengthened and carried intensively by the EU Member States in their own country, not contrary to the statement that we have been right to maintain that the good news, we are cutting off better, and the bad news, the recession is harder than thought a few weeks ago, is right. Those who call on us to act as if we were not affected, for example, by external trade relations, export relations, even with those of the neighbouring countries, the immediate relationship with our neighbours, we should behave in our own federal territory as if we were almost autonomous, have just as wrong as those who say that there is nothing to do with it, it is such a thing as fate, we are only more the commentators of fate. To do this, I have to say: There is the decisive ability to act! It is therefore the dedicated economic programme, which has been developed in detail with a lot of commitment and of course also accompanied by a controversial debate – a business programme that has already reached a volume of €8 billion together with the countries – to measure whether it will be observed in the timetable as we have agreed. There is no month this year in which one or more of the measures of the 8-billion-€ economic package – federal and national economic package – are not implemented. This is not a matter of cosmetics, where something is calculated together as an issue in the same year, but it is a matter of proving that measures in the field of infrastructure, such as educational buildings, are preferable. The word “prefer” already says that something that was planned for later is now being preferred. In other words, investment will be made in the next year and next year. There are also decision-making procedures for which Europe-wide discussions will be held as to whether they should not be shortened, because many of these measures cannot be implemented so quickly in the procedures to be assessed by the Commission. I believe that the European Union, in particular the European Commission, should: The last European Council has received a job contract in this regard because many countries have shown that the procedures, the approvals needed by the Commission are very time-consuming and contradicting the call for 'enlarged preference of the measures', without expressing any wish that tenders should no longer go by rules at all, but only after any allocations. So calls for proposals that produce fairness in Europe but ensure shortened procedures are certainly a task that the European Union must comply with. If you know that imports from non-EU countries account for around 10 percent on average, while EU Member States use an average of 40 percent of their GDP for imports, you can already see that the European Union is not, of course, independent of other developments, such as in the United States or in Asian markets, and that would not claim to be so, and therefore measures concerning the possibility of trade, imports and exports within the European Union – for example, we are very much intertwined with the German neighbor – are useful. International economic researchers have estimated that one percent more government expenditure – of course not any but targeting! – could increase GDP by 0.73 percent and would result in a percent increase in government expenditure of 1.18 percent of GDP growth if these were to be coordinated, namely if there were a preference in the European Union for action, in the automotive sector, in the research sector, in the infrastructure sector, for example the construction of corridors, in the area of infrastructure, e.g. the expansion of TEN lines, if all these measures, up to the so-called Eco-Bonus and once a scrapping premium, would be preferred. These include small measures, often overestimated in the discussion, large tax reductions, simplifications of procedures, additional impulses. This means, of course, that – and we have been given the figures today through the international press releases – that many European countries, seven or eight, cannot meet the 3-percent debt limit, namely the stability criteria, in this year. In the European Union too, we know very well that the so-called stability criteria set with a 3-percent debt limit cannot already meet seven or eight countries in Europe, because they are not at the same time at the same time at the same time as the On the other hand, economic packages can drive with full use and can save so much that they can explain this 3-percent debt limit to the sanctuary, so to speak. Therefore, flexibility will also be required to eliminate the Maastricht criteria where it makes sense for the economy, temporary, only for a certain period of time and, of course, with the proof that the measures are necessary for the economy, for employment. This is only the beginning of the discussion, which, however, has started very positively in one point, namely to make it clear that financial markets and banks, which would become insolvent, would not only take part in those who have speculated, where perhaps some would say that the right ones might have met, but that financial markets and European banks – including banks in our country – would also destroy hundreds of thousands of jobs in the event of insolvency and would tear down numerous businesses that had confidence in banking institutions and financial markets in their financing operations, without ever having speculated themselves. Therefore: It must not be the workers or the small and medium-sized enterprises, nor those industrial enterprises that in the past have set up real economies that remain there, but there must be a clear line here: There are to support those who ensure that the financing, lending, return to flow. It is to be supported those who have already set real economy in the past and have not preferred the production or performance, the service in operation a financial speculation, because one could earn over a few months or, as some even say, over a few years more than with real economy. This group, which has just distanced itself from financial speculation, is to be supported as we have done with the banking package and as has been done with the support of the financial market throughout Europe. In Austria, we helped to assume responsibility for the savings books of natural persons to those people who were concerned about their savings book deposits. Several – I can remind you – have already been employed by the banking institutions in concern of their savings. This fear seems to have been overcome, at least at the present time, even if these liabilities have not solved everything, but because these liabilities have restored confidence in an essential area. No confidence has yet resulted in liability throughout Europe. We can compare the models, that is, the bank package that we have decided together here, with those measures taken in other countries, and no matter what comparison you make – and I don't make it easy and say we know everything better and don't care about what others are doing – you can say: It was possible to restore the basic trust of the saver to a large extent, so that he does not go to the bank and collect the money in concern for his savings. It is the fear that a bank will become insolvent, largely due to the possibility of liability, but it is the confidence of small and medium-sized enterprises when you need loans for financing, because they still have great difficulties because suddenly much more security is required of them than it was a few months ago. This confidence in regaining this security is a psychological factor, but it is also a real one, and therefore I am convinced that the €15 billion we have set for improving equity through banking participation models can provide help. But it must be said that only a bank has the money at all. We must now wait for the objective to be achieved at all, to restore confidence in small and medium-sized enterprises and in industry and thus boost the economy. We must see whether this objective, namely confidence, mutual trust, including among banks, can be restored in order to achieve it. This cannot be said at the moment, because a bank has just picked up the money. Therefore, the fictitious discussions, where some already know how much it brings and how much it does not bring and whether we confront the banks too strong or too little with commitments, are not useful. We will observe the €15 billion we have set up, and the bank's transfers and commitments to lend loans, punitive, but I would say that it has not yet been clarified whether we need any additional measures to ensure that all these flows of money and financing take place and we regain confidence in the financial market. The European Union must reduce the social impact of the crisis, it must pay attention to the housing market, financial services, social security networks, pension systems, it must jointly develop all that brings stability to its citizens. The fight against poverty, the high number of people at risk of poverty, is a task and a proof that European policy can not only be a matter of talking about the issue of financial markets and money flows in general, but must also be a matter of having a lot of social responsibility. We are in Austria on the basis of our social network, on the basis of the tasks of the State, on the basis of stability, on the basis of ensuring health care, education and pensions in a better situation than many other countries. This also applies to the field of energy supply. However, in view of the gas crisis, Europe has been called upon to force renewable energy with full commitment. We must not go to the agenda if it works again to be supplied with gas, but we are called upon to fully address the targets set for Austria, to achieve 34 percent renewable energy by 2020. It would be worth developing a master plan for this in Europe, which is not aimed at strengthening nuclear energy, but at strengthening the promotion of renewable energy. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] Therefore, these measures, which are put in place in Europe and by the national states, social compensation and the precise control that these economic packages are used to combat unemployment and that the funds available are used for renewable energies, the main objective.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e12312	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. I now ask the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs to take the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e12336	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to focus my statement today – in agreement with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany – particularly on those issues that highlight the impact of the decisions at the European Council for Austria and then on some of the current issues for Austria in foreign and European policy. Firstly, I would like to stress, in addition to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, the issues of the economic and financial crisis and the decisions taken at the European Council: I think we all realized how vulnerable our system is. After this crisis, decisions must also be taken to ensure that financial security, which will help to safeguard the potential of individual Member States and citizens, must be designed in such a way that instruments can be created to deal with such a crisis through a kind of early warning mechanism, through control instruments, including through increased monitoring of rating agencies in the future. I believe that these opportunities – including in the European Council, also in the discussion and in the conclusions drawn up under the French Presidency in particular – provide a good basis for identifying and working against such a crisis in good time in the future. In this context, I would particularly like to point out – as one of the conclusions that our country also welcomes – that Austria, through its participation in the euro, through this involvement in the euro zone, can endure and pass through this crisis far better than other countries. Because look only in our neighborhood: The countries that are now participating in the Eurozone – Slovenia, Slovakia – are far better placed than those who cannot participate. A look at our neighbouring country Hungary alone shows how important it is to be in the euro area, and how much the euro benefits and thus helps Europe to cope with such a crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I therefore believe that the ‘Europe benefits’ principle has been impressively confirmed on this issue. Let me draw a second conclusion from the climate and energy package. As an Austrian, we have confirmed that the ambitious objectives of the European Union are being met and implemented. However, we have also seen that our own goal, namely to achieve 34 percent of renewable energy, requires a really large package and represents a great challenge, so that we will not achieve it so easily. It was therefore very important to both of us that we at the European Council have also reached a Commission statement that countries like Austria, which already have a level of renewable energy, which can be seen in the European comparison, will be able to carry out some kind of evaluation before reaching the last percentages. This means that in the last percentages, the cost-benefit relationship will be re-examined by the Commission and we are not faced with the need to achieve the objectives only by disproportionate means. That was important to both of us, and I think this is also a good success for Austria at the European Council. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In this context, let me say: Europe is the only continent that can score on the world level today with a common policy on achieving climate goals. We alone have set clear objectives and given every state what it has to achieve. This can provide us with confidence that climate change has not only been recognised, but also that measures that are probably in the interest of all Austrians. Let me refer to the Lisbon Treaty. We discussed this extensively at the European Council, and it was true. In this discussion, we have set a way for Ireland, which now offers the opportunity for the Irish people to vote once again on the Treaty – but, [[Abg. Vilimsky: referendum!]] [[Abg. Tight: Vote until the result fits!]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: We want to vote!]] Ladies and gentlemen, with accompanying appearances that are correct and good from my point of view. [[Abg. Street: Where is the way for Austria?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I'll talk about the consequences for Austria in a moment. [[Abg. Vilimsky: referendum!]] These conclusions of the Council lay down that the principle will continue to apply in the future: One Commissioner per country! We Austrians will benefit from it, it is an advantage for us. We wanted this because decisions and preparations are being made in the Commission as the engine of the European Union, so it is important that Austria is represented by seat and voice there. [[Abg. Strache: The main thing, you're back at the posts! But otherwise you forget about Austria!]] [[Abg. Street: Main issue Posts!]] We can therefore be pleased that this principle, which has been established there, has a positive impact on us too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Contained applause at the ÖVP!]] Secondly, Ladies and gentlemen, with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, it will also be possible to increase the number of Members, that is, our representatives in the European Parliament: We currently have 18 and after the Treaty of Nice at the next European elections 17 and with the Treaty of Lisbon it will be 19. That is to say, Austria will be more represented with two MEPs in relation to the scenario that will play a role in the next European elections. [[Abg. I can't believe it.]] I believe that democracy policy is good for us that it is good for Austria to be able to elect Members who also represent our interests in the European Parliament. [[Abg. That's where the people will rejoice!]] That's what it's all about, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's where the people will rejoice! It's a jubilation.]] I believe that the current crisis also shows us that we need a more Europe in the field of energy. Article 176a of the Treaty of Lisbon describes one of the consequences that we drew from the energy crisis in 2006: that Europe needs more skills there, too, where it is a common guarantee of energy supply, a common networking of energy networks. This is provided for in this Treaty. I therefore believe that it can also be a guide to us if we put the Treaty of Lisbon into force, that Europe will be better able to respond to such an energy crisis together in the future. I think that this is an advantage, therefore overall, for Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me also address two current questions that are very important to us at the moment. Austria has been since 1. Januaryen in the UN Security Council, as a non-permanent member, equipped with seat and voice. This is a challenging task, a very difficult task, because there are a large number of conflicts and Austria has to decide how it behaves and agrees on a question, as it also contributes to finding solutions or not in advance. [[Abg. Strache: Chad use was the condition!]] In connection with the Gaza conflict, we have experienced with this war just how quickly Austria, also in connection with other partners, has to take a position and also represent it with Vehemenz. I am very glad that our Austrian employees in New York, at our representative authority, who not only prepared excellently, but also in these issues with quality, have acted with professionalism and provided us with good foundations for Austria to act properly in this conflict, namely to work for the United Nations Security Council to speak with one voice in this conflict, to work for a resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire, for humanitarian aid to be possible, and – I think this is especially necessary now – that the beginnings of this peace process are now being fulfilled with a new life. I would like to thank our ambassador Mayr-Harting, our employees, who have not only worked well, but who are doing excellent work in the interests of Austria! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] Let me turn to the subject Gaza: Today, in the morning hours, all Austrian double-citizens who live and were willing to leave the Gaza Strip were brought out today. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is good for those concerned, but it is also a great achievement for our members of the Embassy in Tel Aviv, who have been in constant contact with Ambassador Michael Rendi, a very good way of providing care to our Austrians in the Gaza Strip, and have now managed to bring them out. I am delighted and especially thank Ambassador Rendi for his extremely good work! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know, however, that the European Union and our contribution to the European Union in this conflict in Gaza are also under examination. I also know that some critical word has fallen. However, I can tell you from my observation and from my previous experience that the French Presidency, especially the French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner, has done excellent work. Foreign Minister Kouchner recorded the ball, exactly where it was necessary. ==References== In December last year, there was an ad hoc foreign ministers' meeting in Paris, where a common route for the whole of Europe was established, which continued in the negotiations at the United Nations Security Council. I would also like to say, in spite of all the disadvantages, that the Czech Presidency, and especially the Czech Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg, has made a very good figure on this issue. He took the initiative to travel together with the Troika to the region and build the pressure on the conflict parties that were necessary. Some have criticized the fact that too many Europeans had traveled there. In my view, in such a crisis, pressure on all parties to the conflict must be constantly increased. It has also succeeded in finding such a solution with the European Union's commitment to the quartet, that is, in connection with the UN, with Russia and with the United States of America. Now there is a ceasefire, now it is necessary to provide humanitarian aid and to return to a peace process. A solution for the Middle East will only exist if it starts in Gaza, that is my firm conviction. We should all make a contribution to this! We shall endeavour to ensure that humanitarian aid is provided very quickly from the Austrian side with the means available to us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, allow me to make one more comment. I know that, despite the opportunities I have now mentioned, many Austrians still have doubts and skepticism about the European project, that Europe is useful, that Europe is protected and that it is also in conflict. I would like to make a contribution to the fact that, in the sense of a good Austrian tradition, namely shared speech, we also come into contact with the citizens as local government members. I will start my listening tour this evening through the federal states in my home country – in Lower Austria, in the Städt Seitstetten – and I very much hope that with these contributions, with these immediate experiences, I will learn to understand this scepticism a little more. I don't think it makes sense to react immediately with campaigns, but it is first of all about listening and collecting what has become scepticism here and brewing together. I believe that it is not until we can understand where this comes from that we can also take appropriate measures. I will try to listen to each other in the sense of the Austrian tradition – and not to talk to each other, and I would like to ask you all to help in this regard. We all have nothing to do with the Europe project, we all have something of it only if this project is successful in Europe and thus Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e12617	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. – The next speech is Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e12639	Mr President. Values German chancellors! Decent members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have listened to the statements of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Foreign Minister today, you can say that everyone must have the impression – exactly what you have just called in between: [[Call the SPÖ:Super!]] In this European Union, milk and honey flow, as people fly the fried pigeons into their mouths. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] That is exactly this principle that we can experience time and again. But there can and must be stopped: The reality looks different! Take note, too, that reality on this question is not a fairy tale. Stop with this European Union fairy tale hour, which has been taken into the population every day, for months and years! There are misdevelopments here – wrong developments that we need to talk about openly and that we also want to change. I say quite frankly, you unfortunately continue God's exactly the EU policy course of the old, chosen Federal Government. It is precisely that EU course, which was lived under Gusenbauer/Molderer, but also Foreign Minister Plassnik, that Mr Spindelegger is now allowed to continue as a new foreign minister. He now has the pleasure of singing this EU Lobeshymne. That's the only difference. Some people have been exchanged, but in terms of content, the path has remained exactly the same. [[Call the ÖVP: Because it's right!]] This is a way of distant citizens, a path of civilisation, a way in which one is not prepared to finally ensure the right of referendum for the Austrians. That's what we want to make possible, and that's what it's all about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you, Federal Minister Spindelegger, talk about listening, you are right: All the past years and decades have listened to red and black parties and politicians instead of listening. Listen to this, a reasonable policy and, above all, a democratic policy begins! For you should listen, you should have the ear with the citizen: The citizens want to vote in a vast majority, 80 percent, and are horrified at the fact that SPÖ, ÖVP, but also Greens and BZÖ have agreed to this Constitutional Treaty and have not made possible a referendum! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals were the only party in Parliament, at the time only represented with a representative, but Barbara Rosenkranz was the only FPÖ member in Parliament to vote in favour of this referendum. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We are also the consistent Austrian representation party. Citizenship: Yes, you have lived, Mr Faymann. I also remind you of a certain letter you wrote to a daily newspaper in July. In this, you have promised a referendum on the EU Constitutional Dictat, namely on all the amendments to this EU Treaty, if they arise. Especially here – I know, this issue is, of course, unpleasant to you, you don't like to think back, it was also one of your most important constituencies in the previous election – rather rely on the oblivion of people. But I can tell you one thing: People won't forget that! Mr. Federal Chancellor, we're going to be You are permanently on Remember your promise that you have long broken in the government agreement. The Austrians have already registered what is contained in this government agreement and what has caused you to break your election promise. You have given up a central part of your election campaign in the government program! There you have loosely and casually formulated that in this government, of course, you will not take over the ÖVP on this issue, but that you will do well what the ÖVP wants on this issue and what Mr Vice-Kanzler Pröll wants on this question. We know what the ÖVP wants: No referendum! Our right to referendum continues to prevent, overrun our interests, this EU Constitutional dictatorship with all the tricks too! One is interested in the fact that Ireland is to be voted on for so long, until one finally has the corresponding result that one wishes from the EU Technocrats and EU Centralists. But what does that have to do with democracy? What does this have to do with direct democracy if one has to vote in Ireland for so long, until one finally – hopefully in the sense of the EU's technocrats – has the respective result that fits one and otherwise prevents direct democracy everywhere? Direct democracy – let us say that quite openly! – is not at all a topic for the Brussels Eurocrats and their helpers here in the Austrian Parliament. This is a foreign word with you from the SPÖ, with you from the Greens and the Austrian People's Party. With every FPÖ initiative for a referendum, with countless requests here in the House, you voted against, rejected them everywhere and voted against them. If you know the rulings in Brussels, you know exactly what the other goals will be in the near future. [[Abg. Großruck: Who do you know in Brussels?]] If we have finally broken the resistance of the population in Ireland after repeated attacks, we want to know not only the Constitution but also the next step, namely to bring Turkey as a non-European country into the European Union, even without a referendum. That's the plan, and that's exactly what it's all about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is where we want to resist vehemently, because Turkey has lost nothing in the European Union and will not become a European country in a hundred or two hundred years. It has therefore not lost anything as a member of the European Union either. Take all the negative consequences into account! There, the mass of the population in Austria can be overrun by one wave of immigration after another, as was the case in the last decades. There one opens the door to radical-Islamist currents and thus supports the wrong path in parallel and counter-companies, as we have to experience them here in Austria painfully. And the population also sees these developments as negative. You are told in good German that if only a few lobbyists in this European Union are able to do so economically, everything will be done in good German. These are the realities we need to talk about openly! That is why it is so important to make a firm statement on this issue and, more specifically, on this issue, it is clear from our freedom that the forthcoming EU elections in June will be a bill with those in the High House who have prevented the referendum. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This will be a bill with those parties here in the House, who have permanently trampled our Austrian interests and also want to bring Turkey as a member of the European Union. Where, then, do the European Union's great solutions remain in dealing with the financial crisis? There was no major European Union litter. In the context of the conflict in the Middle East, which you, Mr Foreign Minister, referred to, I was more likely to have the impression that you were actually at a dive station here. Similar to the gas crisis, where it was not dared to call Ukraine to the Raeson. [[Abg. Großruck: This is how the little Maxl presents the world!]] At this point I say very clearly: We are not anti-European of the liberals, but our slogan is: “Austria first!” [[Intervocations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] So it is about representing our Austrian interests. The European Union's association, please, is to criticise this in its misdevelopments in order to finally ensure a social, just, federal Europe of the father countries. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] .. A Europe that is better for the citizens, who do not roll over the citizens who do not regard the citizens as a mass of manoeuvring for Brussels, for neoliberalism. We say that the peoples must be in action and must not be downgraded to statistics, as you do, and let all peoples dance after the Brussels pipe. I guarantee you that the forthcoming EU election will also represent a billing. Finally, I would like to say to you: We want an independent, neutral Austria. In many areas, however, the European policy of this Federal Government is a policy of self-employment for Austrian interests and, above all, of constitutional principles. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] The way in which this Federal Government has acted is damaging to European thought in many areas. We will be against this point, we will be a counterweight, and we will not be ashamed of being Austrians. We are proud to be Austrians in a Europe that we want to know differently and better.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e12787	Next, Mr. Klubobmann speaks Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e12809	Mr Strache, at the end of your speech you said you wanted another Europe. But you have made us look for all the time in the secret, what kind of Europe you really want. [[Abg. Street: Federal, close-to-citizen, social justice!]] Yes, these are keywords. We can't live with headlines. What is the blue model? I'm sitting up enough to hear everything. What is the blue model? – You can’t answer that. [[Abg. Strache: People's vote, for example!]] Apparently was Your whole speech is controlled by the wrong chip that you misplaced, because that's no longer the reality of what you've described there. [[Abg. Strache: Unfortunately, the referendum was not real because ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens prevented them!]] There is now the economic and financial crisis, and the crucial difference to 1929 is, among other things, the fact that in Europe there is this European Union, which can act concertedly and together – and it has also taken place together, for example, when I think of the 200 billion € package. This shows the real qualitative progress in dealing with such crises when there is this form of organisation, as the European Union is one. [[Abg. Strache: We are still looking at how the crisis will be dealt with!]] That is why we are also defenders of the fact that this European Union should continue to exist, and it should not be questioned here. However, we also say that, of course, improvements and reforms can be remembered. We also say that it is necessary to think about an “EU” because we know that there is criticism of the citizens here. [[Abg. That's what you're giving me!]] Yeah, we don't want to destroy them. We want the European Union to fulfil the tasks it has to fulfil in economically difficult times, and to work more democratically – and this will also be one of the points –, of course, closer to the citizen. That is why we have also put the referendum into discussion. For us, this is one of the instruments that can be used to reach greater citizens. We also say that the European Union must be social. It should be a European Union that does not work in accordance with neoliberal economic strategies, but it is a question of the citizens, the Austrians and Austrians feeling comfortable in it and finding themselves in this concept. The European Union is also intended to perform a protection function against negative effects of globalisation. Thanks to its size, and there is much strength inside it, the European Union can be a bulwark, an important tool to counter the negative consequences of globalisation. That corresponds, I think, to the mood in the population. That is why I have accused you of having the wrong chip inside, because in the population this function is now highly appreciated. The European Union itself is not being questioned in Austria, but we are seeking changes and improvements, which is also undisputed. However, this should be made so constructive that at the end of the day the EU is stronger and not weaker and has a perspective and is not ultimately imploded or destroyed. This is the crucial difference, and you should work it out again and again. [[Congratulations with SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Now you already believe in your manipulated surveys!]] I would like to address one more point because I have just referred to the previous speaker so far. I'm for discourse and discussion. It is one of the new presidency of the USA today. Yesterday was Barack Obama's fishing observation. [[Abg. Bucher: It is also the day for our federal government!]] Those who have seen this could find that 1.5 or 2 million people have rejoiced to the new President. Obama is the first black president of the United States, and he sprays with the sentence: We accept the challenge!, a lot of optimism, a lot of future prospects. We have seen that the economic crisis has begun in America, and we also know that it is important that there is again a development in America that fills us with optimism. It is now really being tried, with the involvement of all ethnic and religious groups, short of the entire population, to seek a new start. [[Abg. Strache: You rely on Obama? You'll be left soon!]] This can also be important for economic development, for the mood. There's a lot of psychology in there. The opposite results in apocalyptic images. When you talk, the light goes out in the hall and dark images appear on the walls. That's the Quintessence of your speech. What we have to worry about is that there is light here, a mood of departure, that the challenge is accepted. [[Abg. Strache: The people should feel the mood of departure! Where do people feel in our minds?]] – For you, I'll turn the light up brighter, so you can read better! At least I'll tell you: This is a crucial perspective, and it may be the United States' starting point worldwide. This is positive, and if we look a little beyond the narrow space of this hall, we should appreciate what the United States of America means by revolutionary change. This will have an impact on transatlantic cooperation. The US and the European Union’s axis will play an essential role not only in economic matters. [[Abg. Vilimsky: In Afghanistan!]] I'll tell you something. The first step was to close Guantanamo to stop this practice. That was the first signature! This was also a sign of the rule of law, but it will also have an impact on Europe at the same time. That is undisputed, and you should take note of that. The Foreign Minister described this earlier. The Middle East conflict and the events in Gaza have an impact on our relationship with other oil producing countries in this region, which is not entirely insignificant in economic policy and geopolitical terms. Everything depends on what decisions will be taken in America, what impact this has and what position the European Union takes. The European Union, for example, must, of course, also act in an internal manner, develop a common foreign and security policy and also act on economic policy issues. It is now saying that there is no gap in not reintroducing nationalist prejudices. The advantages can only be justified if you develop this unity. There's really been a big chance. I believe that after the end of the Bush administration with Barack Obama this opportunity must be taken. He'll catch her, he's announced. He will not be able to fulfill much at once, but the mood, psychology, the mood of departure, that is half of the path. That is what I feel is so important for Europe and also for Austria: We have to accept the challenge. The government has already signaled that it wants to. It is a question of our participating in this process together in Parliament. We should not fight small disputes, but jointly, based on a national basic consensus of all five parties, accept this challenge, recognize this opportunity, the opportunity that now arises. Every crisis is negative, every crisis has destructive elements, but it also has something positive, it offers the opportunity to take a new start in order to really seek solutions. [[Abg. Grosz: It doesn't work! Your government is the stark contrast to Obama!]] Hans Rauscher wrote in the “standard” that Israel will also need a change of course. The result of the x-th war is still not that two recognized states live together peacefully. Hamas, including the Arab countries, will also have to rethink, but in all these processes the good services of a country like Austria play a role. It also plays an important role in the sustainability of power and the weight of the US. – So you could continue the point by point. France will play a key role in this, as Sarkozy and many others will play a decisive role. You can't just let a day like today go by without referring to what we saw in this live broadcast yesterday. One last thought: The European Union has also succeeded in preventing the planned take-up of the Bohunice reactor. It threatens a renaissance of nuclear energy, and I think that's a violation. I believe that we must do everything, including in Europe, not to seek the solution in the dangerous, always and forever dangerous nuclear energy. It is important that Austria enters. That is where we have come in, including at the frontier nuclear power plants, and there is also a need to involve all the other Member States in the European Union. Austria can bring its social model, its social model, its experience in many other areas. Austria can provide its traditionally good services as a neutral country in the European Union in resolving conflicts. In this area, I think, a lot can happen. The source of all of this should be optimism, the orientation of the future. It is about that we have this mood, which has been so clearly coming from America since yesterday.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13006	Mr Mag. Mr Mag, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13027	Mr President. High house! Tempora mutantur, colleague Cap, what? I still remember watching as a very young, fresh citizen of Josef Cap during his election movement. There he was still conducting a favorite election campaign, wearing a Palestinian cloth around his neck, and industriously yelling at America. I don't want to go to the other country. – Today, Cap is too euphoric to be caught by a “drug” named Obama, and he can hardly hold back from loud American nophilia and enthusiasm for America. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Cap is supposed to apply for a permanent visa for the USA!]] What this has to do with the Federal Chancellor's declaration of integration is most of the thing in the House, unless, as it were, the European Union is supposed to come for Obama. Was that your solution in response to Mr Strache's lack of solution? – That was no solution either! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The problem with this European Union is that it is always meaningfully mixed with completely absurd. Nobody who is reasonable says that this European Union or European integration is completely rejected. That doesn't mean anyone who's reasonable. [[Abg. Stache: Stadler earlier!]] There are a few in the house, we already know, who believe it would be better if the European Union were to be smashed as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Strache: The belt carrier is getting back on!]] - Please? - Yes, exactly! For example, Mr Strache – I almost forgot what he is called – is such a person who believes that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is Strache-Phobie!]] - No, I don't have a bit of phobia. For God's sake! You're not worth it. What do you think? Don't be so imaginative! - No! [[Abg. Bitch: Logenbruder!]] But if you think that the world is going to be better if you break down the European Union, then you are at HC Strache. There are even those who believe that the financial crisis in Austria would not have been felt if we were not in the European Union or would not be in the euro area. There is also such a thing. But these are very naïve, these are the very simple minds. I don't even want to put this under Mr Strache. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that there have been very reasonable approaches in view of this financial crisis, especially in the French Presidency. Mr Bundeskanzler, one should not, however, now pretend to have solved it as if the European Union had solved it, because finally again the taxpayers of the European Member States are those who have the responsibility to bear it. The European Union has just said how much we should do to this, but ultimately the national parliaments and the individual Member States had to assume liability for banks – and thus ultimately the taxpayers. So that means: There has not yet been the big throw from the European Union, which you are trying to make us aware of here. We recognise with the majority of Austrians that it was better to have a greater unity that could do more resistance and, above all, was not so susceptible to speculation that threatened other countries. No one wants to abdicate anyone who's got his five grunts together. Ladies and gentlemen, however, we do not pretend that the European Union has already solved the problem. It is reasonable to join forces when it comes to big questions. There is a lot to be done, and I would like to give you a few examples. But what annoys the Austrians are these things – Mr. Federal Chancellor, this paper is not so strange to you. [[Abg. May. Stadler keeps a copy of the “Kronen-Zeitung” up to date.]] As I know, this is almost the only paper you read. Mr Bundeskanzler, if I read that the European Union now wants to tell me in its health religious insanity how much salt I can still have on my salt rod, then not only does the “vaccination” open to me, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's what troubles people all the time: That here again a few Apostles believe that they must carry out the “great” policy on the Union and decide how much salt is on the Salzstan, how much more one can still smoke in a public restaurant, how great the notorious radius of cucumbers may be, ladies and gentlemen! These are the things that get people on the nerve! We don't need a Union to do that. That is not what people see as the reason why there should be a Union for this. Mr. Schüssel, you smile. There are major problems, but unfortunately the European Union fails there. Unfortunately, she fails there! I would have liked the European Union to recognize early on the dependence of national economies on energy supply. Instead of appealing to Mr Schröder, when he wanted to project a management with Putin across the Baltic Sea, which does not pass through a member country that can at any time organize extortion maneuvers, I would have liked you to sit there and say: This is a task that only the Union can handle. In fact, the individual Member State cannot handle this task to the extent. There are security problems that the Union can solve better than the individual Member State. That would have to be worked out once. There are also problems associated with the supply of gas, but also with other energy sources. It would be necessary to ensure that not individual Member States are directly negligently dependent on day-to-day supplies from other countries outside the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! This would have been a task that has been on the table for 10, 15 years, but this task will not be done at Union level. But the Union could do that very well. Another problem, because we are particularly concerned with energy supply, is the question of how to calculate uniform energy tariffs across the Union for consumers, so that people know who they are to consider in Europe with comparable offers as suppliers and who are not. We do not even have uniform billing rates in Austria, uniform billing schemes, so that even consumer protection associations today have to admit that nothing is different from the electricity billing and the gas billing. This cannot be understood by the public at all, but it should be comprehensible throughout Europe. The European Union should not be concerned about salt bars, not about any cucumbers, but about these things, ladies and gentlemen. This is what the citizens expect from the European Union! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I also believe that the European Union should construct, plan and also establish independent management systems for Europe's energy security. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If the European Union is once again focusing on the essentials – this is also a reduction in thinking about what the Union should do and what is not, when it comes to thinking about focusing on the big thing, on major problems and not on any marginality that lobbyists in the Union are doing very well – so if the EU focuses on the essentials, it also has a future. I remain with my main question, which no group of this House has been able to answer sufficiently until today because it does not want to answer the Union itself. Mr. Schüssel! Federal Chancellor! Foreign Minister! How do you believe that a Union without a population can be built without the European peoples or even against the European peoples? Let me explain this to you, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One should explain to me where there is an example in history that such a supra-state, multi-ethnic, multi-regional form has actually survived. I know from our neighbourhood one that has survived, but this multinational, multi-ethnic, multi-religious and also multi-regional formation – namely the Swiss confederacy – has survived only because it is always being integrated into all important political issues, ladies and gentlemen! Only that has created stability there! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Even until the Helvetic confederation it was no easy process until it finally arose and became stable. That is why we should perhaps take an example of this by integrating the European peoples and not keeping them a fool, for even Giscard d’Estaing already admits that this Constitutional Treaty or the Lisbon Treaty keeps the peoples a fool. Include the population of each country: This applies, of course, to Austria, but this also applies to all other countries. If a large country such as Germany does not even know the instrument of referendum, how will it be possible for the German people to continue to inspire this European Union, ladies and gentlemen? – You don’t have them, and you have to take care of them! This would be a task for the Union: To make it clear to Mrs Merkel that she should also respect her own people a little more when it comes to the question of European integration. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, you will see how you will fail in the question of Turkey in Germany – with or without a referendum. People will increasingly refuse to follow their politicians on questions from the European Union, and, I say, rightly, for so long as one is not prepared to involve the peoples of Europe in the political decision-making process. For so long you will not be allowed to expect the European peoples to follow up. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, the Union will have to resolve the question of the future, as it builds with the peoples of Europe and not against the peoples.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13177	I am now going to interrupt the meeting in accordance with the agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13208	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. Mr Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen spoke on the Rules of Procedure. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13245	Mr President, ‘Klubobmann’ I was once, but as a simple Member of this House, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr Graf, you have just held the presidency for two hours in this European debate. Of course, your rights and obligations as a third President go far beyond this task – among other things, you represent this House, the Austrian Parliament, to nationals, to visitors from European and other countries and so on. I ask you: How do you explain to us, the Member of this House, that among the employees of your office the Hitler greeting “Heil Hitler!” apparently belongs to a usual welcome formula? How do you expect, Mr President Graf, that we, the Members of this House – and I am going to be here in a moment, Mr Strache – to explain to our visitors from home and abroad? [[Abg. Strache: That's great what you're saying! That's a lot of what you're going to put in here! That's terrible, you're ashamed!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen from the other political groups, I brought you a little proof to support my claim, and I assure you that this is only a small proof in view of the orders made by Mr Graf's staff in a German neonazist shipment. We have copied a T-shirt, because of course we have refused to give this shipment further profit. [[the speaker holds a t-shirt in the height]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where did you buy it?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hairer]] We have copied a T-shirt that I show you – initially from my point of view to the left and then to the right, the Social Democrats – which at first looks insignificant. [[the speaker shows the T-shirt accordingly]] On this T-shirt, the eagle of the German Empire is printed by Nazi Germany, and below it stands an apparently inconspicuous figure, namely “88”. Anyone who has been a bit concerned with the neo-Nazis scene in Germany or in Austria knows what that means: Eight is the eighth letter in the alphabet, you will agree with me, Mr Graf. ‘88’ means nothing other than ‘H. H.", “Heil Hitler!” in the Neonazi scene. Mr President, this is only the head of the “Nazidreck” – to use your own expression – that your employees have ordered during this shipment. As a Member of this House, I ask you to: Free us from this “Nazidreck” – once again: Your own words! – because I think this condition is unbearable and unsustainable! And if You are not able to do this if you do not wish to do so, then withdraw from your office as third President of the National Council! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Riepl.]] Mr President, I am convinced that the overwhelming majority of this House is not committed to the memory of the Nazi criminals, but to the memory of the dead of Austrian resistance – whether it be from the circles of the Christian-Socials, the Socialists, the monarchists, the Communists or simply from those who felt no particular political direction, but probably the Republic of Austria, and who have often paid enough with life. Finally, I request a debate in accordance with § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13348	Mr Klubobmann, speaking on the Rules of Procedure, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13372	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the I find it unheard of and scandalous, as Mr Van der Bellen points out here, and with verifiable diffamations, with verifiable untruths and forgerys, he says things about unspoiled citizens, of whom he knows they are not voting! [[Abg. May. Lunacek: What's wrong with that?]] Member of the European Parliament Van der Bellen knows that these things are not right, because it is proven that these false claims, which have been printed in public for three years in the weekly “profile” magazine, have not been true. They are proven to be fake files published by the Greens. It has been proved that the term ‘Eastmark’ was installed as a fake and claims about orders that have never been made are made. [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] This body you're presenting here has never been ordered by the employees. I tell you, the only bodies that have been ordered - take note of this! –, are little bodies with the impression “I smell the left”! And I can understand this, because what you're doing here about denunciation, diffamation and untruths about unspoiled citizens, where you're doing a hatt against people, and putting things under those things that simply aren't right, is really classic! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not an hour's question to the President, who is worthy of representing the House here and should not be confronted with such untruths!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13430	Before I give the floor to Mr Klubobmann's head, I would like to say briefly that a business proposal for a debate should also include a subject. The Third President of the Austrian National Council is not an issue of the implementation of the Rules of Procedure and therefore not an issue. [[Abg. Oellinger: Unfortunately, this is really so that you are not a topic!]] [[Call to the FPÖ:And you're a green actionist, nothing else!]] So if you want to submit a request or have discussed a subject that is addressed to § 59 para. 3 in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to seek to announce such a subject so that we can vote on it. Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13478	Mr President. High house! There is no doubt at all, and there must also be no doubt that even the approach to national socialist ideas must be rejected and rejected not only, but in particular, in the case of officials. This also applies to the environment of political officials. Mr Graf has been elected the Third President of the National Council from a good tradition. There are no criminal offences known either to his or to his or her employees. But some employees seem to be motivated by such things. But this is the case in the area of political responsibility of each official, in this case in the case of the President of the Council. This responsibility, Mr Graf, will have to be addressed to the public and to this House, although without any consequences. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Of course!]] – Without legal, without legal, mandatory consequences, ladies and gentlemen! But, of course, it is the right of both the members of this House and the general public not only to comment on it, but also to ask for clarification. We have already done this in the last few days and weeks. This debate will take place You must ask yourself, Mr President Graf, that is no question at all – but not within the framework of a debate on the Rules of Procedure. Our Rules of Procedure of the National Council do not do so. Apart from whether there is a formal correct application or not: That would not be the case in the Rules of Procedure either. That means that such a request, even if it were still specified, Mr Van der Bellen, we would have to reject it, but this clarification was necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13527	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13552	Mr President. High house! It is a fundamental consensus of the Second Republic after 1945 and it is also regulated by law that any Nazi re-activities be punished and that this is not a legal, but, of course, a political issue. I fully agree with the President's statements in an interview in which he meant that only one approach to the strictest could be condemned. It is, of course, also here in the house that we have to fight historically and at present with all means, with regard to the resurgence of National Socialist Thoughts, National Socialist Activities et Cetera. Therefore, there cannot be a spark of tolerance. Especially social democracy, but also many others who had to endure the National Socialist dictatorship in the concentration camps, are committed to their history and fundamental values. That's why we're the most vehement opponents. I would add that you, Mr Graf, have the political responsibility of selecting your employees personally. If all of this is true, then there are clear legal rules, such as to suspect it and to conclude with what judgments it is to be made, but you, Mr Graf, are certainly politically responsible. [[Abg. Strache: This is a lie!]] They also have to face up to the public debate. I therefore believe that this cannot be an ad act in the future. Otherwise, I fully agree with my colleague's head as regards the interpretation of business rules.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13594	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you can be assured that this issue is a very serious one for me. Excuse me. Mr Klubobmann Bucher has spoken earlier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13622	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I note that this publicity-thinking action by the Greens is not in accordance with the rules of procedure and that it has been misused from my point of view. The second is that in the presidency, we agreed that this action by the two staff of the Third President of the National Council was an objectionable one, which he himself condemned. [[Abg. Oils: He didn't condemn anything!]] We also insist that every approach to national socialist thought and sympathy should be prevented in this direction; there is no discussion at all and no question at all. However, I also wonder if there are no fundamental and more important issues in Austria, such as unemployment and economic recovery, which we have to discuss ahead. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] If you need discussion on this issue, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and the FPÖ, please organise this discussion outside the House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13665	Ladies and gentlemen! I've already started to do this: You can be sure that this issue is also my concern and I will not withdraw from this political debate; I have not done so in the past either. However, we have an agenda to be completed, and it is also up to a President to ensure that the topics mentioned in an agenda are dealt with as quickly as possible and as possible. In this sense, I am also very grateful for the remarks that have been made. I am pleased that there is still a very good thing in Austria, namely that of the suspicion of innocence, if there are two conflicting or conflicting claims or statements. The presumption of innocence applies to me, both in criminal and civil law and, of course, in my view. also at political level. In this respect – and I have convinced myself and personally – several procedures have already been initiated. There are both civil and media-related and criminal-attracted procedures – that in the sense of the presumption of innocence. Until now, there is neither the initiation of proceedings against one of my employees nor a condemnation of the alleged facts which have been fought vehemently in the past and to this day. I therefore assume that, in this context, we will continue the political debate, I will not withdraw it, I will reject the request for the Rules of Procedure, which includes non-business matters, since there is no relevant business regulation issue, and we will go into the debate on the agenda. In this context, I shall now give the floor to Mr Dr. Schüssel. Agreed speaking time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13710	High house! Mr President-in-Office, allow You still have a sentence on it – not misunderstanding –: As far as I have followed the debate, it was not about criminal matters and not about convictions, but only about political optics. We know you, Mr Graf, for many years as a Member of Parliament, who has quite an opinion, a profile, but who is very sensitive in this area. I don't think it's enough to refer to investigations now. Here, you're just expecting different ones. I think you should put on the size, which is also concrete... [[Abg. Strache: If the allegations do not vote!]] Again: I'm not commenting on any writings now. I am concerned that the Austrian National Council should really discuss other issues. Mr Graf can also make his contribution to this. I think that should be done with this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Pre-condemning for false claims!]] – Mr Strache, there is nothing to do with sound! I have a microphone, you don't; They're just getting hotter, I'm not. And now we are discussing Europe again, where I could say something or something to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: You're getting more and more unimportant, that's your problem!]] - But go! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The current political and economic situation is something that no one of us has ever experienced in his lifetime. Three trillion dollars of economic value have been destroyed in recent months. The four largest international investment banks have disappeared. The financial crisis has now turned seamlessly into a global recession. Only in the EU 18 out of 25 Member States are currently in recession for this year; the Eurozone alone with 2 per cent, individual Member States even experience a decline in their economies of up to 5 per cent. Exploiting those budget deficits. Last year, on average, we had a 1.5 percent minus – and probably the deficits in the euro area will almost triple. We have taken over very high guarantees. The deficits alone rise from € 130 billion to € 430 billion in this year. In addition, some €1,000 billion of guarantees are still available in the euro area alone. The deficits in individual countries are forecast to be: Ireland: 11 percent, UK: 9 percent, Spain: 6 percent, France: 5 percent. In reality, we do not yet know whether this is the sole of the valley, or whether this will be the precepts of even greater problems. In this year alone, 15 out of 25 EU Member States will partially exceed the Maastricht limit of 3 percent. I think there are some questions that the National Council and the public must ask themselves. The whole thing was triggered by a huge credit bubble. But we are now fighting precisely these symptoms and these real effects in turn with loans. We are fighting – as Steinbrück said in Germany – exploding debt with debt. And how are these additional debts financed? – On domestic savings, on international capital movements and on money creation. The following question arises: money is not available unlimited; Obama will probably confirm with one of his next signature an expenditure programme of between $800 and $1,000 billion, some of which say that it is not enough –: Is it not possible for these huge effects to lead to a crowding-out, so that certain private borrowers are driven out of the market by the huge needs of the public hands? These are questions which, I believe, are very serious to discuss. I agree with some previous speakers who have said that it is good that we are in this European Union, ladies and gentlemen. Imagine that we are like Iceland – and that's not a bad economy, that's good people – alone, neither in the EU nor in the euro area; or like Hungary in the Union, but not in the euro zone; or we have an economy that is not as competitive and innovative as Austria! That's why I'm saying: This Europe protects and benefits. And with confidence said: The crisis does not help us to vote for the people. That is what I am saying here in full seriousness. We should focus our efforts on addressing the issues – and not on questioning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Europe protects and benefits us, and it is of course right to work together here, as Josef Pröll did at ECOFIN yesterday. We now have to take the right measures, but then return to the path of consolidation as soon as possible; otherwise we owe the coming generations to an enormous extent, for which no one of us will probably find plausible arguments and cannot answer them properly. Therefore: now help to invest properly! It was right to stabilise the financial system and banks. This is not a help to the bankers, it is a help so that the market economy system can work at all, so to speak, so to speak, the blood circulation of the economy. That was right. It was true that, for example, the European Central Bank – and this too is now little attention – will reduce interest rates from 4.25 per cent to probably 1.5 per cent within a few months. It was right for ECOFIN and the European Council to implement joint programmes that are coordinated and should focus on doing the right thing. It is also right to counter it in Austria, especially with long-term measures that do not help us to stimulate anything in the short term, but with measures that we also benefit from in the long term. I am thinking, for example, of renewable energy and the question of how we can become less dependent on one or two energy suppliers and overall strengthen the productivity and innovative power of the economy. I am grateful that, for example, the concerns of researchers and universities have now been significantly reduced by the recent announcements of the Minister of Science. That is correct and necessary. It is therefore good that we are in the Union; it is good that Michael Spindelegger is a Foreign Minister at the head of the department, who will make his work excellent like his predecessor and will be a strong voice for Austria in this European Union and in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we have also experienced the rather dramatic situation with the gas war between Russia and Ukraine. Three years ago, Martin Bartenstein was a Déjà-vu in the same situation, then at the beginning of the Austrian EU Presidency. At the time, Martin Bartenstein was able to elucidate the gas crisis within 48 hours as Chairman of the Council. But one thing you have to say: In these three years, too little has happened – everyone knew that it was at best a short-term crisis fire brigade – in order to enable us to counter-tax. The Russians' strategy is quite clear. They have the largest gas reserves and one of the largest oil reserves, Europe is 30 percent dependent on Russian oil and 50 percent on Russian gas. That's why the Russians now want to create some kind of gas cartel. They want the pipelines, they also want to go into the vertical, into the distribution networks. They have already succeeded in Lithuania, which has already been achieved in Baumgarten in Austria – of course, because we have made joint joint ventures here – in which Slovakia, Bulgaria and in other countries. You have to see that. It is therefore important and necessary that the European Union finally develop a pan-European energy concept – that has begun under the British Presidency, has then been continued under the Austrian Presidency and must now be effective. But this will lead to the fact that one really helps one another solidly and gives up national sovereignty. It is true that in the current crisis – this is in the urgent question of the Greens, which is being debated today at 3 p.m. – we have not been able to help our neighbouring countries too much. We will therefore have to refrain from national sovereignty if we are serious about a European energy policy. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] The last point on foreign policy: The three wars that are currently taking place, namely in Palestine, Iraq and Afghanistan, are all of our greatest concern – the former Foreign Minister will comment on this. All these crises are not militaryly won. There's a need for diplomacy, and it needs a wise and prudent approach. I am sure that Michael Spindelegger and the Foreign Office will play a good role in the UN Security Council over the next two years. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13822	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Agreed speaking time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e13843	Mr President, at the end of my remarks, I shall still speak to you. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Most of you will probably have followed it and therefore know that I have been playing a new role in politics for a few days. As a top-ranking candidate for the European elections, I will be more concerned with the issue of today's statement by the Foreign Minister and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in the next few months, even more on European issues. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Please don't have a campaign!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Please refuse threats!]] The reason I mention this is that I look forward to very lively debates; not always to all the details, especially those that have a nationalist character and which deny this common Europe. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what you decide?- Oh, my God!]] But as an enthusiastic European, I would definitely like to contribute to the fact that in Austria, in a country in which there has actually been a great deal of activity both economically and in the sense of opening this country – the island of Blessed Ones, that is long ago, if ever voted – in which, with the accession to the EU, a modernization has taken place, Europeanization has occurred in the minds of the people, but in which a change of mood has occurred in recent years, where strong rejection, doubt, skepticism towards the EU is being observed, which again changes and again shows more approval, but also enthusiasm for what is possible in Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Especially now, in this financial crisis, we see that in part there is more agreement, as people realize that we need Europe. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Voggenhuber said that too!]] But we need a Europe that is actually taking action in this financial and economic crisis, making nails with heads, introducing such a thing as a European financial market surveillance that sets rules for much to be free from financial markets, and putting rules in place and saying clearly that we need something like a financial transaction tax that makes it clear that speculations must have limits. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Voggenhuber said that too!]] It is not up to some people to earn millions, get rich and have less and less. That must not be in this Europe. And this requires, for example, a financial transaction tax, a common European financial market supervision, but above all, a drying of the tax havens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the EU can and must act and where it is important that it does so soon. Because there is a certain “risk” – between quotation marks –: With yesterday's fishing visit by US President Obama, it could be that, if it does not act soon, the European Union is going to fall behind in the field of climate protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] In today’s Austrian daily is to be read – we have not written that, the “Press” writes: ‘Green USA: Europe in arrears?’ And then it says: "Europe is stomping the US. Thus, the environmental policy balance could soon be this and beyond the Atlantic.” – This means that the EU must act soon, that it cannot wait for what is happening now and whether we may eventually agree on something. This agreement needs it now. If the EU wants to claim and claim the pioneering role, it is important that a common package has been adopted by the Council in December – this 20/20/20 – that is, minus 20 percent of CO2 emissions, 20 percent of renewable energy and 20 percent more energy efficiency – but you know what the Council – it is the national governments that sit in the Council; Spindelegger, Faymann, Pröll and everyone else – did what happened in December? There was an ambitious European Commission programme – which could have been of the Greens – of 26. November 2008, Commission Communication calling for investments in energy efficiency to be made in order to create jobs and save energy, where it also called for the automotive industry to be fit for the markets of tomorrow. And do you know what happened at the Council, where the Austrian delegation also voted? – The car sector's scrapping premium has been introduced, which is now seen by the government parties as a "total measure" for climate protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Didn't you read what the Wifo says? Not the Greens, but the Wifo, the Economic Research Institute! The Wifo clearly says: A car scrapping premium doesn't make sense. It would be much more useful to put this money into research and development, into one- to three-litre cars, how they can work, in order to further develop in this respect that the car industry is actually being modernised, electric cars – and of course also in the promotion of public transport. It didn't happen. You're making a scrapping premium. This will be decided in the EU. This December Council decision shows once again that it is the national governments, Mr Strache – Mr Strache’s colleague is not in the hall now – not the “evil EU”, which is indebted to everything you think is bad. It is not the European Union. In this case, the Commission has made very sensible proposals. And who watered them and weakened them? – The national governments, as well as the Austrian. Learn this once, the few ladies and many gentlemen from the FPÖ! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: We know that anyway!]] It is very often the case that EU action is very useful. But you're always yelling at it and saying, We do not need this EU, we do not want it! – They only want national sovereignty. They prefer to fire off Austria and get out of the European Union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] That's what you want. You do not want any other European Union – you say it again and again, I alone lack faith. [[Abg. New builders: You have another EU line every two months!]] It's just not right. You don't have to do that. There is a lack of will, even in Austria, to show something new here. This is the one point where it becomes “hazardous” – under quotation marks – when in the USA the new President Obama actually implements what he has promised. Europe must act now if it does not want to come to terms with it. That is, you, gentlemen, on the government bank, the Austrian government must act so that this does not happen. The second thing Obama did: He succeeded... – Exactly: [[Call the FPÖ:Change!]] Change. Obama has succeeded in arousing the enthusiasm of people for politics, for politics to be able to change something. And we have to succeed in Austria and Europe. A little more to Mr. Street: I do not think you have anything to do with a social Europe, the solution to the economic and financial crisis, the fight against poverty. All the time, you have only spoken of Austria of the fatherlands, of independent Austria. [[Call the FPÖ:Bravo!]] What you want is nationalism. They promote racism! They promote a scapegoat thinking towards Brussels, towards foreigners and foreigners! [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Go, please!]] My Europe, our Europe is different. It is a Europe of commons, of ethnic diversity. This is our Europe, not what you want. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yours is anti-European. They want an international of the Nationals. This is a pervert of internationalism and nothing else. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] When I hear you, I also know why I am against national referendums, against a national referendum on the Lisbon Treaty. To these nationalist tendencies you want here, there is a clear no from me. Abuse of your right ideology would be too dangerous for me. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Popular vote is abuse – very good!]] One last: the nuclear renaissance in the EU. – I call on the Austrian Government to finally do what it has not done for years, namely to allied with the other ten EU countries, which have no nuclear power yet and do not want to have one, and finally to push ahead with the exit from Euratom. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: The lamp is shining! It's over already! Time's up!]] Last word to Mr Graf: As well as Mr Schüssel, we need a political debate. And I believe that a President like you, Mr Graf, who is constantly advocating right-wing extremism is not sustainable and therefore calls for your resignation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14069	Ladies and gentlemen, for your claim and statement, Mr Strache and the FPÖ promote racism in Europe, I give you a call for order. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. Agreed speaking time: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14102	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, this correctness should perhaps be better applied to your own affairs, which would be better lifted there. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Dear Ulrike Lunacek, I would like to begin by congratulating you very warmly on your candidate, but I would also like to congratulate the inferior candidate Johannes Voggenhuber on his valuable work in the European Parliament, thank you for it and wish him every good way of life. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are all witnesses of the most turbulent times of the last decades. Economic crisis, energy crisis, global crisis fires and war scenes shake us every day, and you get the impression that much of what has been built up over decades, like sand in the hands. The financial and economic crisis has spread at breathtaking speed from the USA to the whole world. And that's why we don't care what's going on in the US or at other places in this world. We live in a networked world, and this necessarily also has an impact on Austria. We can't agree. – I would have liked to say that personally to Mr Stadler and Mr Strache, but unfortunately they have extended the break a little bit. It is precisely this speed that almost textbooks us, how weaved and at the same time fragile the individual economies and ultimately the overall system are. The technical achievements have been fully exploited, not only goods and services have been and will be sent over the globe, but also capital, derivatives, securities that do not always represent real values. There has actually been something like a global game for which there are no sufficient rules of play. The framework conditions and control mechanisms have proved inadequate. But it is a game with very, very serious effects. Thousands of jobs have been lost. Due to the loss of purchasing power, the fall in demand, the waves of termination – the German Chancellor has very impressively presented this cycle – we have been told that the free play of the forces, the unbridled mechanisms of the free markets, simply failed. The free market can only be sustainable and at least a lot of benevolent if it is given an appropriate framework. This framework must be both in terms of content and geographically appropriate and must not stop outside the national borders or, as you say, the borders of the father countries, because capital does not. This framework is the major challenge facing the European Union. I would also like to agree with Mr Schüssel, not with regard to combating symptoms, but with regard to tackling them at the roots. And only if this succeeds will the confidence of citizens in the European institutions be restored. I also make a big trip to the United States of America, now that I am going to make a trip to the United States of America, even though there are no exaggerated hopes in the new President, Barack Obama, that there is also a process of rethinking in the so-called Mecca of the free market and that the state is increasingly aware of its responsibility and that it is also taking more regulatory action so that it does not happen again that the system is being lifted out of the fishing in such a blatant way. [[Abg. Scheibner: Be careful that you do not stay there – in the visa regulations!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Kreisky becomes jealous!]] The hope for a new era, for a new era of international relations in general, lives in order to solve global problems together and thus at all – and also to give new momentum to the peace process in crisis spots, such as the Middle East. The immeasurable human suffering in Gaza is a huge challenge for the international community. What was done there to the affected civilian population is really heartbreaking – and there UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has really found the right words. The UN Security Council's resolution, which took place under the significant participation of Austria, has a very important signal effect here. We know, however, that the current ceasefire is on very toned legs. Everything must now be done to achieve a lasting ceasefire in the sense of this resolution, including the termination of the Israeli military action in the Gaza Strip, as well as the ceasefire of Hamas' missile attacks on Israel, as well as the ban on the smuggling of arms and, quite importantly, very important! – a permanent reopening of borders. It cannot be assumed that people in Gaza live in prison and are cut off from the goods of daily needs. These blockages must be withdrawn immediately. It is primarily about helping people quickly and purposefully and delivering what is actually needed, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, this help must also come and be able to happen unhindered. It must continue to work consistently on a two-state solution in which two democratic states can live in peace and mutual recognition of the borders and even the right to exist. Austria has a very long and successful tradition as a mediator here. This role, as I am confident, will continue to be very committed, in its most effective form, namely in a coordinated cooperation within international organisations, within the European Union and the United Nations, and not in the form of single approaches, as is sometimes called for – often for – for party political reasons. Again the bow to the pressing problems of the economic situation exciting, energy crisis and so on, I can only call on you all to pull on one strand. In these difficult times it is simply essential to pool all the forces, otherwise we are really faced with the ruins of what has been built up for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14179	Mrs Plassnik is speaking next time. Agreed speaking time: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14201	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Let me start with a word of recognition for Foreign Minister Michael Spindelegger. He had a lot to do in the last few weeks – perhaps not all of them in the density – and he did this great. Thank you, Michael! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria has been since 1. This year's member of the United Nations Security Council and has already been in a challenging situation. I believe that we have done very well to contribute to a uniform process with Resolution 1860, to develop it, because it is really important to meet the major challenges here. Austria will also have a special role to play, because since the departure of Belgium and Italy, we have been the only EU country in the Security Council next to the permanent members of the Security Council of France and the United Kingdom. We are also representatives of the small and medium-sized countries of the world community and we will certainly be well-informed with our programme focusing on the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union faces major challenges a year ago. Some have been addressed. But it is not just about the economic crisis and the financial crisis and how it is handled, it is also about developing the internal order. The decisions of the December European Council are in the right direction. We can assume that at the end of this year we will have the Treaty of Lisbon in place, thus achieving another piece of further development, the development of the internal order and the institutions of the European Union. However, ladies and gentlemen - and this is a very important concern for me - should not stop us from continuing to pay very close attention to the Balkans, to focus on our south-eastern neighbours, because I hear one or another who connects to the Treaty of Lisbon, the further development of the European Union, and has its doubts. As Austria, we should not allow the dynamics, the European integration dynamics to come to an end in this region. I also say this very consciously in view of the difficulties that exist in the bilateral relationship between Slovenia and Croatia. I am glad that the Austrian Foreign Minister has undertaken to play a positive role, although I warn of illusions in this area. But we should continue to make strong efforts. There are also a number of other major foreign policy challenges for the European Union, in addition to the many construction sites of crisis management in the world: the development of the eastern neighbourhood, a very important topic – there will be a summit here in May; at least this is planned – to promote relations with the new US government – also here, on many issues new, further developments – and also the negotiations on the partnership and cooperation agreement with the Russian Federation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Middle East is an issue that is at our heart and a great challenge. We face a human disaster, including an economic and political disaster in Gaza, with shock. I would like to take a look at the facts – it pays off – as far as we know them so far: 1,340 dead Palestinians, as far as we know now, two thirds of the civilian population, of which 460 are children, 106 are women. 5 320 injured, including 1 855 children, 795 women. 13 dead Israelis, four of whom were civilians. – I don’t like to compare a war with another, but let’s take a look at the 2006 Lebanon War: At that time there were 1,100 Palestinian and Lebanese deaths and 160 dead Israelis. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is indeed humanitarian. I met yesterday in Geneva the head of the International Committee of the Red Cross. He said you can't imagine the injuries. I therefore call on the Minister of Health to examine whether Austria is not able to provide medical assistance there – I am convinced that we can; but: how we can do it – emergency aid for the injured in Palestine. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on Green MEPs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the second point: It is time for a lasting solution, for a lasting, comprehensive peace solution. The humanitarian aid alone is not sufficient. We need serious negotiations. We need a new regional security architecture in the Middle East. There are models, there are patterns. It was possible in Europe to decide and build on the Helsinki Final Act in the 1970s. So why not after the CSCE a CSZN, a conference for security and cooperation in the Middle East? Of course, we need to create the conditions for this. In the 1860 resolution, we have already held the Moscow conference to be held this year, another in Paris, in Cairo. Why not in Vienna too? Why not make serious? For the bilateral negotiations between the Palestinians and Israelis alone will not bring success. That's what we've seen again. So why not now ask the American administration to make a serious point of talking to Iran? It cannot be true that for decades silence has been the only “policy” – under quotation marks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This will bring us no success, no lasting peace in the Middle East. I am convinced that Austrian diplomacy can also contribute successfully here. We need endurance, we need appropriate persuasion, but we must not give up. It pays off! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14288	The next item is the report by Mr Hübner. Agreed speaking time: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14309	Thank you for the given word. – First of all, basic consensus: Professor Van der Bellen, I have thought so far that it is also part of the basic consensus in a civilised democratic Parliament, that in principle one remains on the subject and that one does not use the first moment when the cameras look at one, to make antifa agitation and to lead the subject as far as possible into the sand. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also assumed that it is actually more important to discuss Austria, the EU, the crisis and all of this than to consider whether an employee of the Third President of the National Council appointed a certain body three or four years ago when sending the Internet. You do not seem to be of this opinion, as I realized from your last series on the basis of the call for call, when I referred to a similar question by the clubman's booker of the callers, that would be "re-acting", so it would be a very bad criminal act to take something like that into the mouth. But that's enough of it and now back to the subject. . I do not think anyone, nor anyone in the FPÖ, is questioning the European Community and Europe. But more than with other parties, we allow ourselves to see where this EU works well and where there are misdevelopments. We also take the right to say that openly and clearly to the people and not to restrict an EU discussion in order to approve everything, to present everything in a joyful mood and in golden colours. Unfortunately, all the speeches by the other parties that have come on this issue today are again in this notch. Even at the Government Declaration and in autumn we were told that we should not discuss the EU, not question it, it is the great peace project, and so to speak, in brackets: If we did not have this peace project, then there would probably be war again in Europe. – Of course, that’s total nonsense! And now is the argument: We must not talk about it, because we have the crisis; and we have only managed the crisis so well because we have the eurozone and the EU. – Of course, this too is technically wrong, and we have also taken the words and newspapers from them. For example, the recession in the euro area will be even higher than in the non-euro zone by 0.1 percent. Because of the crisis, countries in the eurozone are more destabilised than countries outside this zone – we take as an example Portugal, Spain, but also Greece. They are countries that are in the EU but do not have the euro, much more destabilised than countries outside the EU – we take as an example Hungary or Latvia. [[Abg. Grandruck: Iceland!]] – EU members! Iceland is not an EU member, I would like to point out. [[Abg. Big Truck: But outside the EU...!]] – These are more affected by weitems than, for example, Croatia or Serbia and Macedonia, which are far from EU membership. It has always brought Iceland, a mini-state with a very special problem, an economy that has focused entirely on financial services and which has been hard hit by American invasion, as an example to discuss everything. [[Abg. Großruck: That was once a pattern state!]] This is a way that, I believe, is exactly wrong. If we talk about the EU and if we want to create and promote an EU awareness, if we want to promote love for Europe, that is only with truth, that is, things that people really see and that happen, but not with propaganda images. If we want to build the EU, that must happen with consensus, with the will and with the feeling of people and not with the decision of bureaucrats. For this there is an example that the colleague Stadler – in addition to all his titrations, which he has given of himself as usual – has brought very correctly, that is Switzerland. Switzerland is the model that shows that a multinational structure works when it is founded on the people's will and when it is developed over the people's will. All other multinational formations – it doesn't matter whether we use our own from the past, the Austro-Hungarian monarchy as an example or whether we take Czechoslovakia or whether we take Yugoslavia – have failed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also a bit of a matter for itself that almost all politicians of the other political groups do a real honour when it comes to the issue of referendums. There are all the arguments. Today I have heard the argument – I think Dr. Schüssel has brought it – that we need something other than medicine in the crisis – he has meant something other than referendums. – That’s right, in the crisis, we don’t need referendums for crisis management, but of course apples and pears are mixed. There is an argument from a completely different box to strangle the discussion. If there has been a single referendum in Europe with the Lisbon Treaty, in a single country, and it has been negative, then it should be a natural obligation of all of us, not only in Austria, but also in every country, to undergo this Treaty or an amendment to this Treaty, which will come to a referendum. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I will therefore also make a request on this subject, which we have already made in a similar form, but which seems to be indispensable. Before I bring him to the reading, but one more comment – a comment on the basic consensus, on democracy and on the self-moral-especially-heavy-feeling. I read from the homepage of the Federal Youth Office, where the following first demand is made by the Green Alternative Youth under the heading “If the GJA” – Green Alternative Youth – “the Youth Ministry had over”: The GJA would then be the first to ‘submit a request for the abolition of government and parliament’. [[Ah-rufe and oh-rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's not forgery! This is an original homepage!]] It's not a fake, it's a so-called screenshot that we just got out of the Internet. – Of course, we miss the moral finger of Mrs. Lunacek or Mr. Van der Bellen, and we are painfully missing the indignation from the last bank. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can therefore finally read our request...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14443	Mr Hübner, the speaking time has unfortunately expired. Perhaps another colleague will make this request. Your speaking time is exhausted. [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Dr. Hübner.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. Agreed speaking time: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14477	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already a rather strange, sometimes amusing debate, which we can follow here today. You can't take so many documents to the speaker's desk, then you don't have so much trouble sorting them out. It is also strange, however, because today we have received from the Foreign Minister a certain assessment of Austrian foreign policy – but we have these EU days. And this is actually what this debate is about: So that is what is left of the attempt to address Europe's issues more comprehensively here in Parliament. We've heard very little about that. The Federal Chancellor has issued such a kind of “sustainable parole” in the financial crisis. He said it was too early to assess the efficiency of the bank package. – Well, Mr. Federal Chancellor, how long do you want to wait? We've been waiting four months now. A bank package of €100 billion in liabilities for the banks, with the hope and wish that this money will also lead to the banks to lend loans to the small and medium-sized economy – and nothing happens! The small businesses are fighting for survival now, and nothing happens! You, Mr Bundeskanzler, just want to say that you will still wait and assess efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, regardless of the EU issues: There is absolutely a need for action here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then: Now companies are fighting for survival, and if they don't make it and don't get the support, you'll see how the unemployment figures are going to develop this year! And that is your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Government. It is also interesting how, in a debate on an EU chapter, it is now so positive. This Obama hype, which is playing here, is particularly interesting, especially in the social democracy. Mr Cap has said here that we should not be so pessimistic in the face of the financial crisis and take an example of American optimism. – Well, I hope your new model Obama can keep all that he promises. And perhaps you will no longer have election slogans like “Hernals the Hernals”, but the next time, at the Vienna election, “Change” or “Yes, we can”. Mr Cap will implement this accordingly. I am surprised that Obama is now the new guiding principle for social democracy. Or maybe it doesn't surprise me either, because you would expect your own Federal Chancellor to be the guiding principle, just as it used to be. Perhaps there are corresponding deficits and one has to look over the great pond so that one can find new idol for politics. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We prefer to stay here on the continent and look at how the EU should continue. Mr Kickl,... – Well, not with you. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Mr. colleague, there will never be a disk hype!]] But perhaps there may be a Jarolim hype – but only when you can not only call, but here you can give proper speeches and, above all, bring together something in committee. We're still waiting for it in vain so far. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The EU. – They said: Wonderfully, the European Union was necessary to cope with this crisis. – Well, we haven’t dealt with them yet, and there were also shortcomings. The EU too has taken a very long time to admit that it is a crisis at all. And so far we are still waiting internationally, at the national but also at the European level, for such speculators and speculations to be proposed by stricter regulations in the future. We are still waiting for a repeal, at least a temporary repeal of the Basel II directives on undertakings. That would be a very important thing now. We are also waiting for a step towards a common economic policy in the European Union, including that of foreign trade in other continents. In fact, this would also be an opportunity to really deal with the tasks of the European Union and to say: Yes, we need more Europe in different areas, especially on such global financial and economic issues! – That’s exactly what you should work on and not say now: Hurra, all this has been wonderful, thank God we have all of this! without also taking note of the shortcomings accordingly and helping to remedy them here. The gas crisis has been addressed. There too – of course! – it is good to have the pressure of a large organisation, like the European Union. But then we must also ensure, within the European Union, that there are, for example, the same standards for storage capacity, as we had been exemplary in Austria with the three months. Only then you're not extortionable. However, if there are countries like Slovakia that are already turning off the heating after a few days, then the negotiating position of this European Union is weakened. So it's in the Middle East problem. It will be too little if the European Union now rebuilds the destroyed infrastructure with the money from all of us, so that it will be destroyed next time, but here it will be very important to ensure equal peace negotiations between all parties involved – whether this is the Palestinians, whether they are Israelis, whether they are Syrians or others. There has to be a clear line before thinking about how to allocate millions and billions of subsidies again. [[Consistency with BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] This would be interesting for Austrian foreign policy. On the issue of referendum: Mrs Lunacek, the demand for a referendum cannot be nationalistic, it must only be reasonable. It may be right once to demand such a thing, but it may also be wrong. The demand for a referendum alone is too little. That's a little bit of the criticism we're making here. It's nonsense to say: Now we are leaving the EU, but we have to consider: How do we want the EU? – A common foreign and security policy, with a common energy policy, with a common economic policy. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: And social policy!]] If we have drawn up this concept, Mrs Colleague, it is absolutely necessary to ask the people in the form of a referendum whether they want to participate in this new concept of a European Union. Ten or 15 years ago, or 20 years ago, to have obtained a general authority for everything in the population and then to believe that the people are doing so anyway and are excited, that's too little. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'm surprised at the greens, who always play so democratically, that they speak against it. Ladies and gentlemen, in this sense I hope that these strange discussions and veils belong to the past and that in Austria, in the field of the economic crisis, in the field of the energy crisis, we are also the Middle East crisis engine for an active role of the European Union, but that we are also the future perspective of the EU – with the involvement of the Austrian population! – not to ignore, but to consider this as a real question in this legislative period and for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14571	Mr Van der Bellen is next spoken. Agreed speaking time: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14592	Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, Mr Spindelegger, before dealing with the economic crisis and the European measures. Mr Spindelegger rightly pointed out that the reform treaty, the Lisbon Treaty, actually had an opportunity to be adopted, provided that there could be an arrangement with the Irish. And I do not want to add that I would consider such a result to be excellent – also from the Austrian point of view, but not just – because I think it is better for Europe to work with the Lisbon Treaty instead of on the basis of the Nice Treaty. The Nice Treaty came into force eight years ago – or seven years ago?, at least long, long ago – and the frustration over the Nice Treaty at that time was monotonous throughout Europe within a few weeks. And since then, we have been discussing reforms, reforms, reforms, and I think that this is the last possible way to achieve a better treaty here. Unfortunately, I consider it hopelessly naïve and in some way romantic, to hope for something better. If this is rejected, we will have been beaten by the Nice Treaty for at least ten years, so we hope that this story will go well. Mr Faymann, Federal Chancellor, has focused significantly on the economic crisis, as I think, naturally with a certain right. The European Central Bank's action is about to reach a border. The European Central Bank has gone down very quickly with interest rates. That's good and right. However, I think the interest rates are still higher than at the time in the 2001 recession. Other interest-rate reduction steps are to be expected in the spring. But this alone is not enough, but the budgetary policy of the Member States of the European Union, each state, as far as possible coordinated at European level, is required here, in Europe. Mr Strache, whether They want or don't want to: A small country, but also the large countries within the European Union, are unable to deal with an economic crisis like this with their own national resources. One can certainly say that the European institutions, the national financial market supervisors, the Americans et cetera could and should have prevented the bubbles, but they have failed. Yeah, but that's shed milk now. Now we have to act at the budgetary level – with a reform of European financial market supervision, European banking supervision. You can only do this at European level, or you can't do it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Make better!]] I don't want to do that in any way – in any way! – I am glad to say what happened and what is going to happen, I am just saying that this European coordination is necessary. We don't know if it's going to be enough. This coordination is extremely important from an Austrian point of view. Because where are the Austrian banks and thus Austria as a whole particularly exposed? – Especially in non-euro area countries, in Bulgaria, in Romania, outside the European Union, in Ukraine, in Russia and so on. In newspapers, some €200 billion of outstanding loans can be read. Please, we don't want to be alone here! Here we want the European Union to provide timely assistance in these countries so that economic growth does not or does not fall significantly. This also serves our interests, directly and indirectly. Austria alone will not be able to cope with such situations. Again: Whether that'll be enough, we don't know today. But that we need European coordination in budgetary policy, in fiscal policy, in aid for the Central and Eastern European countries – including that, Mr Strache, is in Austrian interest – is certainly clear. [[Abg. Strache: It just needs to get better, and we fight for it! That is why we must maintain our interests!]] That is why we need the European Union. And that is why I say again in this context: If the Union did not exist, Mr. Strache, we would have to invent them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: But not a centralist!]] In Austria, and this has come a little too short for me at Federal Chancellor Faymann, it is now important to do this quickly anyway. It is not about how we ridiculed 60 years ago – not we, but our predecessors – economic policy is that the one paid by the state is to lift the graves and the other toss them again. No, we have to do the useful projects: Expansion of schools, kindergartens, universities and, above all, a modern energy policy, where it is fortunately – fortunately! – there is no target conflict between greater independence in energy supply for Austria, in particular in the gas sector, second in the creation of jobs here in the country, in Austria, and thirdly, a better achievement of the Kyoto targets in the context of climate protection. These are measures which we can take autonomously here in Austria, which we hope will become. We do not need a European Union to do this. But in the field of economic policy in general, in the field of international banking supervision, insurance supervision and so on, we need to avoid crises like these in the future, Europe. And so we should be grateful that there is already the European Union and we do not have to reinvent it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14670	Before I give the next speaker the floor, I inform you that after consultation with the club members, consensus was reached that, in the sense of a fair distribution of speaking time during television transmission, every speaker is now assigned 3 minutes. The next item is the report by Mr Matznetter. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14694	Thank you, Mr President. I hope that the decline in the economy does not reach the extent of the reduction in speaking time due to the previous overrun. This European Union, which has been working on us today, could be described with the old saying “Neither was it as valuable as today” because what has been done there in the last few months has shown an ability to act, which we would have expected, but which – be honest! – not all of us have agreed to the EU. In this context, Austria has proved that it is a country that is very fast, very thorough and very well-balanced with these tasks. As far as the bank package is concerned – even if the criticism is true that we have expected more in terms of loans for SMEs over the last few weeks – the Federal Chancellor has clearly said that this could only take advantage of a bank. It is a task for the next weeks and months to be careful to ensure that the funding is appropriate. [[Abg. Straightness: 17 percent decrease in credit volume!]] – Do not put your light under the sailor, Mr. Strache; You voted in favour! [[Abg. Strache: But Mr Molterer, Minister of Finance, promised that there would be control at the time! This promise has not yet been fulfilled!]] Remember what we, as legislators, have done with this package, because within days we have secured the deposits of the Austrians! We have done this well, and I am glad for the millions of savers that we have been able to make this security of savings. This has shown that if there is a real problem in our country, it is solved that it is working. This is where both the government and Parliament have done a good job, which is why we should not do that badly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For example, Switzerland, which Mr Hübner and Mr Stadler brought: Never in this situation do I want to be a Swiss politician, because when there were these difficulties with the banks, Switzerland was not able to make a bank guarantee package larger; only with an emergency war regulation was a small part of security possible. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Maybe they didn't need it?]] [[Abg. Strache: This is the right objection! Switzerland didn't have to do that at all!]] - No! So to speak, the Swiss had to ask the Americans to save the big banks! I never want us in Austria to ask that our banks be saved by the Americans – as good will for this! As beautiful as it is to make popular elections, it is also important in a state to be able to make decisions quickly. And there the Constitution of the Republic of Austria in many things is better than that of Switzerland. [[Abg. Strache: This is a referendum on the EU Treaty and not on the banking package!]] Third point: We see the problems we face: Practical week after week, the expectation of economic development 2009 has to be revised. A constant increase in the number of unemployed is to be feared and noticed, but can be said: Austria is also much better than most other European countries. If the economy is falling by 3 percent in Germany, we have 1.2 percent, because: Our government is acting, Parliament is acting! That is why our economic policy is a reasonable one. And we want to continue this reasonable economic policy. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14819	The next item is the speech by Mr Grillitsch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14841	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very interesting discussion, especially in view of the fact that in Austria, everywhere in Europe and in the world, precisely because of this financial and economic crisis, people are afraid and sometimes have no confidence in policy-making measures. It is therefore also the duty of all of us here in the House to take people’s fears and not to stir them up, to create confidence and to show what opportunities there are – despite this economic and energy crisis – in order to fulfill the highest command of these hours and days, namely to secure or create jobs. At any rate, I am glad that we live in a common Europe, that we have a currency and that there is the European Central Bank with which we can share these challenges. I believe that Austria has been doing well with this joint Europe in recent years. Before joining the EU, for example, we had an export price of €40 billion in Austria, which is €122 billion today. In our country, we now have 300,000 jobs more than in those days when Austria was not yet a member of the European Union. Especially from the point of view of farmers in our country, it is to be said that with 1995 we have achieved security and planning for rural areas; with the various EU programmes, ladies and gentlemen. It is the policy's task to secure this for the future, so that we can benefit from these domestic potentials accordingly. Therefore: Europe gives security – and we must communicate this security to people accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, this particular energy crisis has shown what great challenges there are in order to be or remain independent, in order to ensure, in reality, food sovereignty in Austria and Europe, but also to increase independence in the supply of energy. In this context, I refer to the great opportunities in the areas of biomass, wind, solar energy, which allow the use of domestic potential, both in the fuel sector and in the heat market and in the electricity sector, of new technologies, and thus also to create jobs, while at the same time taking into account environmental protection. Therefore: Let's do this together! People have deserved that we do not incite their fears, but that we give them confidence and security.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14884	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Haimbuchner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14905	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Acting actors on the government bank have changed, but EU lobbying and self-devotion remain. Mr Cap, you have been so excited by the new US President Obama, and you certainly know the slogan of President Obama, ‘Change’. – “Change” means as much as “change”. You, Mr Cap, have It must also be recognized that there will be a change – as well as the voters – yes. I should also like to inform you that the stock exchanges of this “change” have not, of course, kept a lot, because they have been totally overthrown today. At the time of the introduction of an American president, there has never been such a bad cut-off on the stock exchanges as is the case right now. That should also give us some thought. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A new approach has now been found to improve the image of the European Union, especially in times of economic crisis, in times of economic crisis. It is only then that we have to ask ourselves the question of who is actually responsible for this crisis, and above all: What has the European Union done to prevent a crisis? In this context, the following questions: Where does European financial market surveillance remain? Where is there proper control? What has the European Union done against international financial speculators? – Nothing, because it is part of this system of unconditional globalisation without control, without regulations! And you are also responsible by the government parties. We do not know how this economic crisis will end. We all hope it will be positive. In this context, I can refer to a “level” article that has recently appeared, which reads about the “flight of cheap money”. I really want to warn against the “flight of cheap money. ” They all know what that means, that is to say, money depreciation, and that may also mean monetary reform. We all don't want to. So there is much to do for this Europe. We liberals stand for a strong Europe, we want a strong Europe – and we do not want to hang somewhere on the American gang. It is only here that we have to ask ourselves the question of what this Europe can and should look like. Since it is not enough if the Austrian People’s Party always acts as if there was a “golden lamb”, which is almost sacrosanct and criticises it as “Majest policy”. - It's not that! You know very well that the citizens see this differently. That is why you do not let the citizens vote on the Lisbon Treaty, because you know exactly what the mood is in the people. You know that very well, because you have your own survey results to do so. That is why we liberals say that we want another Europe, we want a Europe that is supported by the citizens, a Europe that takes account of the different states, a Europe that is strong externally, while maintaining its sovereignty within the European Union and that there is independence, good cooperation in peace and freedom.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e14982	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15003	Ladies and gentlemen, I was quite amazed – and many here in the House were – when Mr. Klubobmann Cap performed a glorification of the new Americanism in his party here, as did Mr Obama. And I was just waiting for you to tell us, Mr Cap, that Mr Obama has already called you several times and asked you for your advice and you have already discussed it, so to speak, that would have been the highlight. Perhaps an Obama bust will soon be Your office is decorating, Mr. Cap; but you are doing all that with yourself. To get serious now: Mr Klubobmann Cap, I am already very excited – and this is part of the European Union – what you are saying about the latest proposal by the German Foreign Minister, which just a few minutes ago represented the glorious idea that Europe, the European Union, should welcome Guantanamo prisoners. I'm already very excited if you're going to the Schwechater airport and receive these Guantanamo prisoners! We object – although it is right to lock down Guantanamo, no question! – that the problem will be outsourced to Europe, possibly still in Austria and we will suddenly get a problem. We say no, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, quite clearly! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] In the Gaza conflict, not everything was as great as the Foreign Minister told us. I should like to remind you that an EU Commissioner – you can discuss the content – has accused Israel of a breach of international law, but at the same time, for example, the Czech Republic, which holds the EU Presidency, which has blamed Hamas, all of this in a very short time. While at the same time several persons sent to the Middle East by the EU Commission have been pilgrimd and there God knows what has done, France has tried a single way. That is to say, this single voice, this single position was actually not so much to be seen, nor was Europe's claim to this global responsibility on this issue. It is similar to climate protection to get to this point. Is it really the only great vision of the European Union to ban light bulbs? This is the only concrete measure we have seen on the table as consumers and citizens of the European Union. It's not the only measure! If you look at it a little bit, it'll get even more interesting. I looked at that. There are now 1 000 regulatory committees in the European Union. They produce as insanity as partial prohibition of toy railways, ban on washing machines, regulation of water taps and shower heads. The last highlight was a management regulation, where it regulates how to set up ladders properly. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Not much got along!]] I say that if this is the task of the European Union, if it really is the development of this regulatory will of the centralists in Europe, then they have not understood European thought. Then we must also note that people are critical, because no one can follow or demise from the European Union to the private sector. We don't want to. On the other hand, we are acting. That is why we are in favour of more co-determination and, of course, also of plebiscites and referendums, which form the basis of European Union co-determination. That is why we continue to support it. It's right: ==References== A principle decision will be taken on June 2009. I am already very excited about how those parties – and these are SPÖ and ÖVP – will then return to the election campaign and ask for the voices of those people whose voices they have never heard in recent weeks when there was a referendum. I'm very excited. ==References== June 2009 will also be a billing with these thoughts.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15055	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Honey. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15078	Ladies and gentlemen! Not only the Americans are longing for change, but also the people in Austria want something to change at last. It is difficult to find a job in Austria, especially for young people. And no matter if you're an apprentice in the hospitality or a university graduate who's going to do a fake internship: Too often young people are exploited in Austria. They work a lot, they get little paid, they are poorly secured. But not only the young people do. The current poverty and wealth report shows us once again that your atypical employment relationships, which you have so promoted, largely lead to precarious, difficult living conditions. Now there are thousands of people – particularly poorly qualified – who have lost their jobs from workers who have become unemployed. This is not only because of the economic crisis, but also because of your labour market policy over the past few years, because you have not done so in good time to ensure that these people have the opportunity to reclaim school qualifications, to qualify for good training. Ladies and gentlemen, the people in our country are actually hesitating more or less through life. They are dissatisfied with their job and they are highly dissatisfied with politics. [[Abg. Wöginger: This is a perfect nonsense! Maybe you should go out to the people!]] And that is not wrong! For years, the ÖVP has worked with the BZÖ in the government, with the FPÖ, also with the Social Democrats on the neoliberal reconstruction of our welfare state. Ladies and gentlemen, on what pretext? – On the pretext that this is necessary in the European Union, because of European competition, globalisation. But it is true that you were always in the front line when it came to neoliberal conversion when it came to social, wage and tax dumping. And that must finally be over! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I have hopes when I put on change, I won't rely on you anymore. I insist on a European Union which is developing further, democratic and social. We Greens want to form part of this. We demand minimum social standards, we do not want working time to be extended further. People are already working too much. There must be a fairer distribution here. Nor do we want different classes of workers. Any employment relationship in Europe must be equally secure, must be of equal value. Ladies and gentlemen! More democracy, fair social minimum standards, good levels of public education systems, health systems, this is our way for Europe and, I hope, also for Austria. And finally, a sentence to the conclusion: By the way, I believe that you, Mr Graf, who is constantly advocating right-wing extremism, are unbearable as President of this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15154	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Maier. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15176	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Financial and Economic crisis has shown how the European Union is capable of action. Important decisions have been made. On the other hand, however, we have to deal with developments that are happening globally but also at EU level and which we also have to criticize. We, I think, most of us here in this House want to see a further development of the European Union, but we must not let it stand. I would like to give an example: High house! The shock is deep in Hallein in Salzburg. ==References== In January 2008, it was finally announced that the paper factory was closed by M-real. At the end of April, paper production in Hallein is discontinued after more than a hundred years. The remaining pulp production is not secured, even this could be stopped. To clarify: However, this decision has nothing to do with the current financial and economic crisis. It is pure capitalism and unfortunately was sanctioned by a failure of the EU competition authority. The background: The Finnish group M-real sold five paper factories to the South African group Sappi. Both paper giants thus split the world market to keep prices high and reduce overcapacity. Therefore, the closure of the paper factory in Hallein was already agreed before the conclusion of the contract, according to the motto: Wearing profits, reducing losses to the general public. The unfortunate thing – and you have to address that! –: The EU competition authority has approved this acquisition by Sappi, a process which has rightly led to the most severe criticism and discussion at this EU competition authority. This agreement between M-real and Sappi on the permanent cessation of paper production in Hallein must be regarded as antitrust agreement within the meaning of the EU Treaty. Agreements to limit production fall under the prohibition of cartels, Article 81 of the EC Treaty. This is simply a brutal adjustment of the market for workers and the region. It is the dictatorship of two corporate bosses with the tolerance and approval of the European Competition Authority. With the support of the Salzburg Chamber of Labour with its President Siegfried Pichler, the AK experts, the works councils and the trade unions, the state of Salzburg will therefore use all legal and political opportunities to combat this antitrust agreement and thus the decision of the EU competition authority and to obtain a maximum of jobs at the Hallein site. Our request is made to the members of the Federal Government to support the country of Salzburg and the workers in the country. This M-real-Sappi deal must be brought to a standstill. In order to receive this support, I should like to ask you on behalf of the workers of Salzburg.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15224	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15245	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Maier, we know each other here on one side, the state of Salzburg and all the Members of Parliament are fighting on a front. I think you can say 1949 – that is, 60 years ago – held Winston Churchill a speech before the European Council in Strasbourg, which has been valid until today. Churchill then said: We must give the European people’s family “a structure under which it can live in peace, security and freedom.” And Churchill goes on: “Only in this way can hundreds of millions of workers regain simple joys and hopes that make life worth living.” 60 years later, the idea of a federal Union of national states living together in freedom and prosperity has lost nothing of actuality. It is true that we can meet together today the special challenges facing the European states. At that time, as today, rapid joint action is in place, and that is important and correct. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] In recent months, it has been possible to prevent the threatening collapses with joint forces. The European response has recently been – admittedly – very concrete. Liquidity has been restored in a coordinated strategy, the financial system has been revived by massive banking aid and the largest reduction in interest rates of the European Central Bank has followed. These are effective emergency measures that show that a common Europe is proving successful in times of difficulty. Austria's companies are in good shape. They have managed very well in recent years and have found good conditions. We in Austria can be proud of entrepreneurs, because 65 percent are SMEs. And these give 65 percent of all employees a job. In times of crisis, this is a strong stand-up and thus a special position in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must ensure social security as well as economic efficiency. Let us not forget that much of the organized solidarity depends very much on total economic performance! A healthy measure between saving and investing must be found. Although saving may be regarded as unworded at the moment, I still think it is a very reasonable principle because it should be seen as a matter of care. Our investments should work like fertilizers that promote growth if it is properly spent at the right place at the right time.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15306	The next item is the speech by Mr Kurzmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15327	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to put the following motion for a resolution on behalf of the National Council Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fight for the equality of German language within this European Union is an infinite story. One really gets the impression that over the years, perhaps even decades, one has observed that the governments of the Federal Republic of Germany, but also the government of the Republic of Austria and the government of Switzerland have so far struggled with too little emphasis on the disadvantage of our mother tongue within this European Union. It is a fact that no one can discuss away that nearly 100 million people in this European Union speak German as their native language. But it is also a fact that 72 percent of the original texts of the EU Commission are written in English. It is a fact that 14 percent of EU Commission documents are written in French and only 3 percent are in German. Therefore, in 2007, the German Federal Government rightly insisted that German be used again as a language of procedure in the European Union's official office. German Chancellor Angela Merkel gave her full address in the EU Parliament as Chairman of the Council in German. She made it clear and made it quite conscious, because it was only hours later that she had her speech put in English and French, that she had sent a signal with it, and that she finally wanted to eliminate the disadvantage of the German. Ladies and gentlemen, what we need is a turnaround within the European Union. We need an active language policy. France and England, the French Language Protection Conferences, the French Language Protection Act are examples of this. What we need is a commitment to our own native language and the enforcement of the German language finally also within the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15387	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15433	The next item is the speech by Mr Petzner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15454	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think it's wonderful that the SPÖ is today talking about departure, about hope, looking at the Great pond, but it's going down and over in its own house. Mr Cap, while you are talking about the need for hope and departure, the SPÖ Carinthians are tearing it into their parts, and an existing countryman is excluded from the party. [[Call the BZÖ:Ui! Oh!]] That is, I advise you, before you look over the Great pond, to take care of order first in your own party. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A message to the Carinthians: In contrast to the SPÖ, one can rely on the BZÖ; they argue, we are closed and work for the country. - So much for it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I still have the opportunity to address the contributions made by Mr Schüssel and Mr Van der Bellen, who have rightly said that the current economic and financial crisis can only be solved jointly in the European context. I share this opinion, but I add – and you must not forget that! – that the ECB, the European Central Bank and the boss are also there with blame for the current crisis, and refer here to a current article in the “Mirror” entitled “The Curse of Cheap Money”, in which it reads: "The current crisis managers are totally innocent in trying to improve the situation they are desperately trying to improve, however. Because it was the policy of cheap money that pushed the system to the abyss. It only made it possible for all the debt-financed excesses, which are the consequences of which the world economy is now suffering.” – Quotes. That is to say, one must also confess that the European Central Bank is guilty of the crisis by printing cheap money in large quantities and throwing it on the market. She has not, above all, done one thing – and here I am with you, Mr Van der Bellen – she has not stopped the speculators, the banks who are also guilty of this crisis. It has not put in place any countermeasures, such as a pan-European speculation tax, as the BZÖ has long called for and has often applied for here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The BZÖ has also entrusted the Federal Government with the task of introducing this speculation tax at European level. That would be one of the right answers that Europe could give, but at the moment it does not give. We expect these answers, and we hope for them. This is also the big difference between our party and the FPÖ. We are not against Europe, but we are for another Europe. We are in favour of a Europe that provides answers to the challenges and questions of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15523	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15544	Mr President. As far as the debate on the German Chancellor's contribution and statement is concerned, it must already be recalled that he has said very little European policy for the reason that he has announced a European declaration. Federal Chancellor Faymann also had the chance to move away from his own kneefall in front of the “Kronen Zeitung” for the SPÖ or possibly for the government – or for half of the government – a little bit, but be it. If a little bit of knowledge – and then I had the impression – is that all three major crises that we now face – the financial and banking crisis, the general economic crisis and the energy crisis – then – and only then! – if international institutions work together accordingly, then something has already been achieved. Since the European Union is already there – I join Alexander Van der Bellen: you would otherwise have to invent it – it is now simply a matter of finding out more: If the Union makes a bad policy – even from the point of view of the FPÖ – it cannot be that it is being abolished immediately. To make a comparison: If Austrian politics is a bad one, then either the Constitution should not be abolished or the Federal Government or, at the end, the Republic at all. - Only in the Union do you see it differently. [[Abg. That's what the government wants! This is what this government wants: to throw our Austrian constitution on the dumps of history! We don't want that!]] That's why it's perfectly clear what it's all about: It is about the Union also to assess what policy it is making – also in its political implications. That's right, but that's a result of the power ratio there: Will the Conservatives be strengthened or the Liberals or the Social Democrats? - Just like here. And to this thought we must go: Away from your small-cared church tower thinking that this is considered to be a very normal and very useful and opportune form that can solve or solve the big problems that now arise. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] However, we do not hide that, of course, we also consider what happens there in the debate, which working conditions prevail, and that is to influence it. It is the most normal thing in the world that we are now entering the European elections, and then it is the question of whether more liberal ideas are coming to the train, more conservative, perhaps more of what the current crisis has given us, or more social-democratic, more green – as you just want. But let's not pretend to be a bit absurd, just perverse. - I'm going to reject that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It fits very well into your shilling gardens, which may be already. That is why it is only logical for you to actually press ahead with all these conflicts and be constantly deliberately confused and blurred. They actually want to get out of the Union. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That would be the only consequence you would have to draw, and perhaps we should vote on it. Then the cracks are over. By the way, Mr Third President Graf – now you are sitting down in plenary session – I also believe that, as long as you do not distance yourself from this approach, you are unbearable yourself. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15619	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda, so that the required debate on a urgent question under the Rules of Procedure can take place at 3 p.m. – at 2 p.m. late at 15.02 a.m., but as agreed during the television broadcast. [[15:03:45]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour on the failure and non-alignment of the Federal Government in energy policy (675/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15649	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 675/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15943	I declare Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek as the first questioner to justify the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e15964	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister Mitterlehner! The gas supplies are back, and I believe that you now have a certain hope that the issue will disappear from the headlines, that you will be able to lean back and that you will be able to move back to the energy policy agenda – that is, to continue essentially as before. I would recommend that you not give in to this illusion. The topic of energy security and energy supply will follow you every day of your life as Minister of Energy and as Minister of Economic Affairs of the Republic of Austria until you have answered it correctly and safely in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will also contribute to this. You have a great opportunity. You can decide – historically – on which side you are on. You can stand on the side of which very long Minister Bartenstein, who has essentially registered as an energy-political fossil in the energy history of Austria, as a blocker, as an objector. - That's not just my words. I know how the industry is talking about you, which now has over 30 000 jobs and which you have always failed for years. Whether this is the solar thermal energy, whether that is the eco electricity in the field of photovoltaics, whether it is biomass electricity generation: There has been a great chance of the future. But now there is a new minister, and he can now decide whether he is going a new way – or whether he is only half-hearted about it. A little bit of talking about it is not enough. You have to work very real and also very honest and offensively for this energy turnaround, otherwise it will pick you up. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There have been some learning opportunities in recent years. We remember: When Putin first took advantage of the gas tap as a political instrument for power over Ukraine in 2006, it became unmistakably clear how extortionable Europe is and will be especially in the future. Putin acted in the sense of a statement by Henry Kissinger, which is attributed to the following quote: Control the energy, and you rule the nations. – This lesson, I think, has learned Putin very well. In the summer of 2008, we also saw that he was not afraid to do so with military means to do a tiny spot of earth on the Caucasus in order to protect a pipeline. I do not need to bring the oil price spiral to your attention today, it has already happened. 150 dollars, a price spiral that was mainly responsible for the so-called inflation in Austria. There may have been all the alarms who can cry, and a retransmission would have been possible every day, every hour. But so far, this has not happened. So far, you haven't learned anything about it, but you've done so much more than there's no morning. Iceberg in sight, full power ahead! – This is the necessary and now also quite cruel analysis of the current status quo. I would like to briefly describe the reality: The share of renewable energy stagnates, contrary to all the beautiful words we have heard today. Electricity consumption increases dramatically – between 2 and 4 percent each year. Gas consumption is increasing. The cost of energy imports has exploded and has almost doubled in recent years. The climate targets have failed, and the eco-strom development is moving in the promille range. In the last two years, there has essentially been zero expansion. – This is the truth behind all those beautiful words that we have heard today. The worst thing is – and this is especially what should interest you as Minister of Economic Affairs: There are thousands of jobs in these areas that can be realized, especially in a situation like now. This is discussed everywhere, above all – much quoted – by Obama in the USA. – thousands of jobs! There are also voices in your own ranks – especially the Farmers' Federation, but also the former Commissioner for Agriculture Fischler – which you have repeatedly met with your nose on this reality, but which you have not recognized to this day. What you want to tell us now is the message that what the Greens understand by energy transition is not realistic, what the WIFO, which many experts describe and demand in this field, is not to make people illusions. This is simply not possible and not realistic. Now I would like to test your concept of realism a little bit, which is really naïve as far as the future is concerned. I believe that this historic gas dispute marks a cause, and this acidity means that no reasonable politician in Austria or in the European Union can say – certainly – that the supply of oil and gas is a future-proof option. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: What do you mean?]] That's over. You can never claim that again. Even if you don't believe us, some of the experts who are not very green-minded, but rather who come from the field of business consulting have spoken about it. A remarkable study by A. T. Kearney was published this week, which describes the very drastic: Even without a gas dispute, even if everything goes smoothly when all the transit countries of the world act cooperatively, this gas route is no longer possible. Gas dependence in the European Union will rise by 70 percent even if everything goes smoothly, if there are no conflicts and nothing else. Your own reserves will end, in Norway no later than 20 to 25 years. Russia will need a lot more gas itself, will need a lot of money to promote gas, and will also try to get it. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: But you are also called!]] The lines through Ukraine are absolutely outdated, this study notes, and the succus is called: If the road continues as before, the gas will not be available or available for the needs of Europe. – So what is naïve now, or what is not realistic? Their great hope is the "Nabucco" pipeline. What I don't fully understand to this day is why she bears that name from opera literature. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because they all sing in the prison choir!]] – “Queen choir” is a good keyword! We can soon vote in this prison choir, because this “Nabucco” pipeline – this is what A. T. Kearney, a company consulting company, in all drama and all hardness – will reduce Europe's dependence on the Russian gas by only 5 percent – by "gender" 5 percent! However, the project costs – and you have been silent today – €5 billion. Even if you realize the “North Stream”, “South Stream” and “Nabucco”, with an inconceivable financial effort, which someone pays, namely, the gas customers, the electricity customers, actually the taxpayers of Austria and the European Union, even if you realize all these projects, it is not even half the growth rate that can be transported by 2020. These are very simple bills. So what is realistic or what is naïve here? I say this is naïve: to rely on “Nabucco”, to rely on Putin to perhaps not work on a gas cartel, perhaps not to all the gas exporting countries already think about how to end the era of cheap gas, as he calls it. - O-Ton Putin. You can rely on that. That's what's going to happen. To exchange a dependence on the Russian gas on Ukraine for a dependence on the Caspian states or on Ahmadinejad with its nuclear program, I call it naïve, and that is actually naïve and anything but future-proof. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What you've been silent today, but what's important is what you're actually planning. As an energy policy way out, they do not only propose these pipelines, not only the Tauerngas pipeline, but also the dependence in the area of heating – 1 million households heat with gas – the dependence in the field of electricity generation in Austria is to be massively expanded towards gas dependence, with the construction of say and write eleven very large new gas power plants, which together would consume three quarters of the current gas consumption if they were realized – 75 percent! Klagenfurt Ebenthal – very controversial – Mellach in the Styria – by the way, the greatest accepted nonsense you can even plan: The waste heat is not even to be used, but to be transported over the Mur and over the air, i.e. through the atmosphere. One hour of Mellach needs as much gas as a hundred households a whole year. With this and also with these incredible sums that you want to invest – €5 to €6 billion – you not only cement the dependence in the heat field, but also lead Austria into a new dependence in the field of power supply. This is not only unreasonable, it is politically unanswered. If you would like to ask the people who finance this, if they would rather put these €5 to €6 billion in the expansion of renewable energy or in energy efficiency, then you would be a very clear answer. They just don't ask her, but it's just invested in it, without a plan. Just continue as before: Iceberg in sight, full power ahead! I believe that the population does not stand on the side of the blockers and the denyers of the future, and that the turn in the head, which is necessary, has long taken place in the population, but not yet in politics. I say it again: You will resist it until you finally have to do it. You cannot shut yourself down to the energy transition, but you can already, today – and there we make an offer – stop this huge financial miscontrol, these 5 to 6 billion, which you now want to invest in further dependence. We make a request: Expansion stop, stop this power plant giantomy, which means nothing but further dependence and which is the opposite of safety. The energy transition, as we imagine it, has obviously not yet arrived at you, or you refuse a serious discussion of the concept – refers to two main areas, namely electricity supply and heat supply for households, for industry and for the service sector. We say that for these two areas it is precisely possible – also supported by scientific studies – to create a 100% renewable energy supply by 2025 at the latest in the electricity sector and by 2030 in the heat sector. We also say how: in the electricity sector by stabilizing consumption. 2 to 4 percent growth is not a natural law. Austria is one of the few countries that do not implement the Energy Efficiency Directive and do nothing in this area de facto. We also say where we want to grow: We're for new power plants. This may be a remarkable thing for some, but the greens are for new power plants. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Hainburg!]] [[Call the ÖVP: This is new!]] We want to double the area of small hydropower, and above all we want – and now please listen very carefully! – the Austrian farmers – namely the forestry industry and the Austrian forest farmers – make rich, because we also rely on a domestic raw material in the production of electricity, namely biomass heating plants. That's what other countries do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Gahr: No one will be rich there!]] Once again, I should like to explain why we are giving up over €10 billion of energy imports de facto and not at least some of them to the Austrian forestry industry. Why is that unrealistic? Why is that naïve? I don't really like that. - That's the current area. In the heat sector, it is much easier if we consistently rely on thermal renovation. It is possible to reduce a third of consumption without problems. Solar thermal energy – mandatory solar systems on every roof at every new building – and of course also the biomass here: Biomass heating plants, dual use, significantly more reasonable than “Nabucco” and Ahmadinejad. In traffic – I say quite openly – new solutions are needed. This will not go until 2025 and 2030, but it will need horizons by 2050. Today, however, we must begin to transform consistently, for example in the field of public transport. We need to reroute money, out of highway insanity, into public transport. And why do we not invest, instead of the scrap premium, the 125 million that this costs, in research and development, in our motor industry, which can do well and urgently in this area, and at the same time do something very reasonable in economic and environmental terms? This is essentially a short description of our concept of the energy transition. You have not dealt with this seriously until today, but you will have to, the better the day before. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To the SPÖ – the voice will leave me immediately –: While German Chancellor Faymann no longer needs a climate protection officer, he obviously knows himself across the board – we'll see, so far I don't know anything about it – but he has an economic advisor. This economic advisor, Hannes Androsch, has remarkable positions. He says, on the one hand, that there has been no energy policy in Austria since Zwentendorf. - That's what he says francishly and freely. At the same time, he wants to start again at Zwentendorf, because he is actually proposing that Austria build new cars. He explains this with confidence in the future. – Exchange of Ur dependence on gas dependence! Move the problems that you cannot solve today, such as the final storage, our children, children's children, grandchildren and great-grandparents! So I believe that the fundamental link between energy transition, independence, expansion of renewable, efficiency and nuclear exodus has not yet arrived at SPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I've got the suspicion, it's still stuck. We will not be credible for so long and cannot be credible as long as we have 20 percent nuclear imports in Austria. Whoever is against the expansion of eco-strom, who says this is too expensive and that does not mean anything, and who ignores jobs in this area is a lobbyist for nuclear power, also in Austria. You have to make this accusation happen. If you do not consistently develop eco-electric power and rely on energy efficiency in Austria, you are the handful of Bohunice, of Temelín, of Kosloduj, of the German power plants, of the Swiss power plants. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The promotion in the OECD countries, which still exists in the area of EURATOM – nuclear subsidies, credit advantages for individual ERUs that build nuclear power stations, is still a multiple of what OECD countries spend on renewable energy sources. So this cheap argument that renewable energy sources would be so expensive is no longer true. You also have an offer here today: You can vote in our requests, you can vote for the end of the payments to EURATOM and for a reasonable use of these € 40 to 50 million in climate-friendly economic measures. - That would be an offer. And you can also vote to provide consumers with a little more knowledge. I always find it extremely unfair: On each electricity bill, each and every one of us, when they look closely at them, sees the alleged extra cost of the eco electricity. That's on every bill. However, no account is taken of how much is actually hidden in this current mix of nuclear power imports and thus of uncertainty and future evasion. They also refuse to perform a proper electricity label in Austria for the past decade, so that everyone and everyone knows exactly, I don't want to, for example, go to eco electricity or other operators. – You can decide on this label today. That's an offer from us. Whatever will not work, it is the Shareck that Austria is so alone that we are the only country in the European Union that is opposed to nuclear power. – Of course, political alliances need a basis. If you stand aside with Berlusconi and lobby against renewable energies, you must not be surprised that the innovative countries are retreating. If you want to make alliances, you need something very important, namely solidarity in an emergency situation. You have just missed this solidarity in the gas dispute. Mr Mitterlehner, the question was: Can we help Slovakia? – You said in the “ZiB 2”: “We cannot deliver anything at the moment as far as gas is concerned, because we ourselves have actually reached the narrow-pass...”. – We have all seen the pictures of the hospitals that were closed, of the schools, of the kindergartens, of newborns and older people without hot water. And Austria says we can't deliver gas ourselves, because we've reached a narrow pass! The Minister for the Environment has also positioned himself similarly. He said: “This may be a problem for Slovakia. Each state itself is responsible for its energy supply. (...) But Austria has provided and Slovakia must also look at how it gets its energy.” I mean, solidarity looks different. Other countries have also helped, although they are said to have smaller gas storage units than we do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Germany has helped, even Serbia has helped Bosnia-Herzegovina. It's gonna be interesting today. I would like a very concrete answer to these questions: During this delivery outage, did you offer concrete help to any country, especially those whom we always say that their energy policy is wrong? Has there been concrete requests for help, and how did you respond specifically? What about the Austrian gas supply actually and really when we are supposed to have reached a narrow-pass? The reports were totally contradictory. The OMC said: ‘The stocks have not been substantially reduced.’ E-Control said again – that was 7th. January –: In the extreme case, we only have gas available for three days. - So, please, a specific information: What does it actually look like? I would also ask for a very specific information on how you calculate our dependence on additional energy and gas imports would be implemented this huge and completely misguided expansion programme in the field of gas power plants. How expensive is that for us? What is the cost of the Austrian external trade balance? What would be a reasonable comparison if you put this money in renewable energy sources? What would that mean in jobs? The last point – which is also very exciting – is: What is really in these gas supply contracts? After two weeks, Barroso has put us in the heart of delivery failure, but the companies are supposed to complain. Austria has held back very much. Both tortoises as well as toboggans You didn't say anything about this causa at all. I think the public has a right to know how this is being done. Is there any extra cost? Will you complain about the delivery failure? Will you complain about damages? And: How do you feel about the plan that Gazprom would like to continue shopping in infrastructure projects, including in Austria, and especially in distribution networks? Last but not least: An energy policy announcement that goes a little beyond what we have, anyway, a 34 percent target, would already be appropriate. – With this statement no one can start anything! First: The last German government had a higher target, 45 percent. Why did you get rid of it? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] And second: What do you even refer to this 40 percent? In what period? I would like you to be very concrete and very serious about this energy transition and that you also have an answer to how we will solve this in the future. Don't do this, you're on the side of the future blockers. Put yourself on our side! We have made an offer to that effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e16165	To answer the urgent question, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour spoke. Your speaking time, Mr Federal Minister, should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e16186	Madam President. Mrs Fekter! Ladies and gentlemen! I had the opportunity to point out this morning that with the resumption of the gas delivery yesterday at 7.20 p.m., no impression can be given that everything is good again, everything is good again and we are in a state where we need nothing to change. We all know that we need to increase our efforts towards climate objectives, but also towards greater independence and better security of supply. What annoys me a little, Mrs Glawischnig, is that with your presentation you almost want to give the impression – at least for me – as if only the commitment of us to an energy change, just the verbal confession that prevents the crisis. What you give as an impression is that Austria would be a huge passive house, where you have a few solar panels on the top of the roof, below a pellet heating and somewhere else a few wind farms, and so everything is covered in the direction of supply. This is not in line with the complexity of the problem. I will also give you the example of Mellach, because in this context it is simply not correct to say that the basic supply is covered by all that you say is to change in the heat sector to that and that. There are simple differences as to the requirements from the base load, but also because there are, of course, differences in the weather situation and the other. – But still in detail. But if you now – and this request includes several parts – for example as the first title “Not Learned From the Crisiss” and also write literally: "One specific measure was the expansion of gas storage systems", I would like to answer that was the measure that enabled Austria to cope with the crisis at best from all countries across Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And, Mrs Glawischnig, for the second time – although you are not the only recipient of my answer now, that is clear: But we have also improved the relevant framework conditions in this Energy Steering Act. The Energy Steering Advisory Board has dealt with the situation and found: We don't need an emergency order. We can cope with the crisis on the basis of a harmonious detachment of the daily processes and the possibilities we have in the storage area – but there is something else, that is what we can act. And that's exactly what happened. We are also sure that, as the European Union proposes, we need to diversify. That is, with what we now have, we will not find the way out in the future in order to be able to deal with any further crises. If you ask – and this is also part of your request – how safe the gas supply really was, then I am going to escape you, which of course depends partly on how the weather situation develops and how technical defects are. And right was: ==References== In the case of a requirement of 2 million cubic metres per hour, January could have happened that a company would have stopped if the case X had occurred. In fact, it has succeeded in handling things differently, and nothing has happened. Therefore: Crisis situations are characterized by actual experience, actual resolution, and not just plan ideas. In this context, however, I would like to face one already, namely that the Republic of Austria did not do or treat aid requests from other countries, or that – I would like to argue – as far as I am aware such requests have been made at all. That was not the case in the form. All that has been said by Slovakia, Serbia or anyone else in this respect is not verifiable for us. But that does not mean that there was no help here, but the OMV, for example, has made a line towards Kittsee – it has been relatively little to do, that was in about a excavator hour. On the basis of this line, 50 million cubic meters of gas were transported. Now comes the second point: The gas has been traded at gas prices. The whole was done on a market-based basis, not from state to state, but from company to company. The gas was traded by operators in Austria who have warehouses here. It was purchased and transported accordingly to other countries. Therefore: As a result, Austria would have been stingy – I don't want to leave it that way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Further: You say of the Greens in your presentation that Austria would be unorientated and contradictory, and quote – I may repeat this here – the following: “The Minister for Economic Affairs and Energy wants to build new gas power plants, pipelines and large-scale hydropower plants, and the Minister for the Environment and Agriculture will force renewable energy in agriculture... The Federal Chancellor wants a 'Master Plan Energy', which means above all the expansion of large hydropower and process accelerations." I can only tell you: All three statements you have quoted are correct, but they are not exclusively and completely quoted. It is so... – [[Abg. Head: Not at all contradictory!]] And above all not contradictory. Thank you for the note. – An overall plan will, of course, include gas power plants and pipelines to reduce our dependence, and will of course also have relevant contents for the biomass sector of agriculture, but all in one master plan. As you have just addressed Mellach, among others – you have addressed several gas power plants –: That's where the problem lies. You can't cover the urban area with individual heatings. Take a look at the security of supply from Mellach and the advantages! The carbon leakage effect, i.e. CO2 effect, is significantly reduced at Mellach because old coal power plants were closed in the south of Austria: Tent path with 137 MW in 2000, St. Andrä with 124 MW in 2004 and Voitsberg 3 with 330 MW in 2006. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Everything without feeding!]] The new gas power plant produces a lower CO2 emissions of 400 000 tonnes per year. All of this ensures a basic supply, all of which is uncontrollable with individual heatings. Therefore: I would solve the illusion that we no longer need gas power plants in Austria. Similar – and I am a little irritated too – to what you say on the topic of hydropower, because you are constantly talking only about large hydropower. Mrs Glawischnig! Whoever speaks of large hydropower, I assume now that he does not have a completely positive attitude to hydropower, because of course there is a huge number of medium power plants. The two power plants, which have now been approved for instance in the field of EIA testing at the Mur, are 18 MW and 16 MW power plants, are medium power plants. So, in the context of the Master Plan, which Mr Bartenstein has already referred to several times today, hydropower is the only greater way to really make a big step forward in the direction of renewable energy. We are acting here as the Federal Government, as the country of Austria, in my opinion, what the future is about to come, quite systematically and planned, because this master plan is also to be sought and implemented accordingly. I have to tell you quite honestly, too, if on the 12th. On 7 December the Council in Brussels decided that 34 percent were binding, the gas crisis on 7 December. Januaryen comes – I think you didn't mean it that way – then the Federal Government can't do it on 21 January. A master plan will be presented by January. This requires extensive preparatory work, votes, and I am also in favour of these votes. But to link the involvement of all those involved with a summit again, I think this is somewhat problematic. We have one summit after another, and we are actually in the descents of the plane, because we have to deal with these first. For example, if we can achieve something in the area of process acceleration, without anyone re-linking to the fact that we want to affect neighbourhood and environmental rights here, simply by better monitoring, by better coordination of procedures – these are the downfalls in the level that could move us to simply have faster procedures, thereby also increasing planning security and implementation. In this context, I would say: We learn from the crisis, we invite all parties involved in the implementation process, as well as in the EU sector as a whole. You know, too, that some of the competences are only really changing with the reform treaty and that the EU's coordination role here needs to grow. But look at CO2 development now, for example, within the framework of climate change targets! Of course, everything we implement has a very concrete impact on energy and on the overall environmental problems. Therefore, in order to comply with the speaking time, I must now come to the individual points of the question: Question 1: For me, Autarkie is not just the pursuit of a nation for self-sufficiency, Autarchy also stands for self-sufficiency and as much independence as possible. In this sense, I would like to win something from the version of our Minister for the Environment of Energy Autarchy. I already said in the morning that energy saving, energy efficiency and, as a whole, a commitment to dealing with energy and raw materials are essential. On question 2: ==References== Question 3: The next comprehensive energy report will be held on 31 December. ==References== My department has already drawn up a draft for a new energy report and a conceptual part last year. The major new energy and environmental policy guidelines, such as the presentation and treatment of the climate energy package, were adopted at EU level in 2008, in particular the proposal for a Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the so-called third liberalisation package for management energy presented in 2008, and finally the proposal for a new EU action plan on energy security and solidarity, have led to the fact that this draft for a new energy report in 2008 has not been formally addressed by the relevant institutions. Question 4: As explained in my reply to question 3, this comprehensive “Master Plan Energy” will be at 31. ==References== This date is related to the fulfilment of European renewable energy obligations. Question 5: Of course, relevant findings from current studies will also be included in the new Energy Master Plan. This also means that we must focus on energy and environmental policies in order to ensure the most efficient use of energy in all sectors of life and economic activity and the highest possible economic use of renewable energy sources and technologies. On question 6: I refer specifically to this question that this request from ÖVP Wien referred to the state of Vienna. The EU expects an improvement of energy efficiency by 20 percent in the climate energy package compared to the original scenarios by 2020. I think this is ambitious, but achievable. Of course, the success of a federal energy plan is in principle and inseparably linked to the activities and measures at the federal level. Question 7: To date, it has been my home's tradition to ensure the widest possible participation of all relevant institutions and economic sectors in the preparation of energy reports and concepts. I will continue to do so. As far as an energy summit in this sense is concerned, we will consider that, but broad involvement is certainly in the near future referral and invitation. Question 8: No additional costs are visible to me, since only the load peaks in the gas consumption were to be adjusted, but sufficient gas is always available. Only two power plants, where this is technically possible in the short term and sufficient oil is available, were fueled with oil. Both the electricity market and the gas market are liberalised, and these are business matters. If you have followed the price trend, you know that the oil price had almost the same level. Therefore, a damage or a disadvantage will be difficult to derive from this title. When the gas supplies were resumed yesterday, the OMV classified the damage caused in a first opinion as rather low, because the gas supplies were recovered and there were no difficulties in the internal distribution until now. On the question 9: A number of studies and studies carried out in the meantime, such as from an author collective of Wifo-, Wegener Zentrum Graz- und TU Wien-Employees and so on, have shown that a target of 45 percent for renewable energy could lead to enormous cost burdens and also adverse consequences for large parts of the Austrian economy. Moreover, the Austrian Federal Government is moving in the same way as the European Union. In my view, the 45 percent target was a very strong requirement in the last government programme and has led to enormous criticisms from a wide range of experts and, above all, economic sectors. These 34 percent, which we have now de facto completed with the EU, are very ambitious in implementation as far as the objective is concerned. In essence, however, we are in fourth place in the European Union, so we are in the best position and are not behind. Question 10: No, since Austria was one of the main countries concerned of the delivery stop and around two thirds of the Austrian supply of natural gas by imports from Russia. The Austrian gas industry has carefully stored natural gas in the storage facilities to maintain its supply after delivery failure. On the basis of these storage quantities, it is possible to optimise Austrian consumption, but no additional quantities were available for exports during the delivery downtime. On question 11 – although I have already answered it in the general presentation, here again in detail –: Specific requests for assistance from Slovakia or other European countries for supply of electricity and gas have not been made to me, my ministry or the energy control; as I know, not even to the Federal Chancellor or to other ministries. In the electricity sector, no applications have also been made for electricity supplies on a commercial basis; I assume, even on a different basis. In the gas sector, Slovak companies approached EconGas GmbH with a commercial delivery request. Hiezu opened the tipping pipeline between Baumgarten and the Slovak border to handle the transport of 50 million cubic meters – but not from stocks of the EconGas, but obviously from German stocks. Independent of this, supplies of natural gas through Austria are also carried out in other countries of international suppliers. Question 12: The operational operation of gas pipelines and the handling of transit deliveries are not a matter for the BMWA. This is considered a matter of undertakings. The alleged incident is not known to my house either. On the question 13: As measured by the net import tangent – imports minus exports as a percentage of gross domestic consumption – the foreign dependence of Austrian energy supply in 2007 was 68.8 percent, which corresponds to a decrease of 3 percentage points compared to 2006. In 2006 energy imports totaled € 11.73 billion, of which € 7.38 billion was oil, € 2.44 billion on gas and € 1.37 billion on electricity. In 2007, total expenditure on energy imports amounted to €11.15 billion. This is a total of minus 4.9 percent, of which 7.16 billion € – minus 2.9 percent –, of which 2.11 billion € – minus 13.6 percent – and of electricity 1.27 billion € – minus 7.2 percent. No data are available for 2008. Question 14: The recent long-term planning of the AGGM in 2008 shows that the Riedersbach power plant, the Klagenfurt power plant and a power plant project in Simmering have been taken into account. According to the long-term planning 2008 of the AGGM, gas consumption in the east control zone will rise from 7.06 billion cubic meters in 2007 to 13 billion cubic meters in 2020. Questions 15 and 16: There are no data available to the BMWA, nor is this a question of execution. It would be a task in the context of a study to present the relevant value added and also the job-creating aspect. On the question 17: I would like to point out that the Energy Efficiency Directive is in implementation. After the first national energy efficiency action plan was sent to the European Commission in good time by the end of June 2007, the implementation work started immediately thereafter. An agreement under the Directive under Article 15a B-VG with the federal states has been prepared, is now obsolete by the government programme. Of course – this also shows “report” and others – the public sector itself will also have an adequate contribution to make, in particular in the field of procurement, but also in the area of heat engineering improvement in its own building, as noted earlier. On the question 18: The number of contracts in the field of green electricity is to be said: in 2007 5 184 contracts, benefits in mw: 1 793,8; in 2008: 5 164 contracts, 1 577 mw. According to plants is not counted, but it may be that several plants are included in a contract, for example. To the quotas and their exhaustion: With the exception of photovoltaics – 100 percent exhaustion – it was used 41 percent at Biogas, 55 percent at Biomass, 22 percent in the use of support volumes in 2008 at Wind. The 2nd Parliament, adopted in July 2008 by Parliament. Ekostromgesetz-Novelle 2008, with the Federal Law No. ==References== In August 2008, the annual additional funding for eco electricity increased by around 25 percent from currently 17 million to 21 million euros. This will allow additional €500 million to be invested in the expansion and promotion of eco electricity by 2015. According to this novel, the share of the eco electricity – hydropower, wind power and biomass priorities – will be doubled to 15 percent by 2015. Furthermore, tariffs for all eco-electric technologies will be re-evaluated in order to ensure the necessary incentives for investment. Instead of 11.25 years of tariff term, 15 years of tariff term apply to biomass and biogas and 13 years to all other eco-strom technologies. ==References====External links==* Official website Ecostromgesetz-Novelle 2008 was decided by Parliament before the summer break, then sent to Brussels for notification and depends on the Commission for what the aid permit has reached. In spite of all the efforts of my ministry, the Commission's approval could not be achieved until now. We have answered the questions raised to us in December immediately and we hope that an answer will be made in the near future. ==References====External links== Ekostromgesetz-Novelle has not yet entered into force, of course, is not being prepared by my ministry at the moment for new innovation. If this is still to be delayed, we will have to think about the appropriate measures and probably discuss them here as well. Question 20: ==References== In January 2009, the following conditions were reported: Gas consumption: 44.8 million cubic meters per day; Gas production plus storage: 33.8 million cubic meters per day; Gas import: 10.0 million cubic meters per day; Transit amount; 16 million cubic meters per day. On question 21: As far as the breakdown for households and industry is concerned, I ask you to read the charts we received from the E-Control and the OMC as part of the Security Council. We assume, in accordance with the statements made by the OMC in the Energy Steering Advisory Board, that we can ensure the supply of up to three months of expected weather and consumption on the part of large companies. This statement is in the room and has not been disproved by the concrete resolution either. On the question 22: According to the information available to the BMWA, the EconGas signed a gas supply contract with the Russian company Gazprom Export in September 2006 which runs until 2027. Specific contractual content is confidential business information; otherwise, this is not a matter of execution. On the question 23: This is a confidential business information, and it is the same as it is: It is not a question of execution. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We already own!]] – It is up to the company to decide to make use of legal steps in relations with its suppliers. I have already done this on several other points: In my opinion, the recommendation – otherwise I think a lot from the Commission – is to consider to the companies claims for damages, a problematic recommendation, which leads to the evidence of the claim. However, it is precisely up to the individual companies to decide whether or not to take action. Since Austria is not a contracting partner, a complaint situation does not arise for the Republic. On question 25: Gazprom is a private-law company operating according to economic principles. It is therefore free to organise its market activity within the framework of national, Community and international provisions. The decision on Gazprom’s participation in the gas supply infrastructure in and to Austria is therefore the Gazprom itself and the company OMV, Rag, “Nabucco Gas Pipeline International” and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the part of the reply that I have been given in writing. I'm sorry that was relatively compressed in language. I'm allowed to sum up: We draw from the whole situation the consequence that, of course, we need to make an intensive further development of the entire energy supply in Austria – with the involvement of all concerned. However, I am sure that in the international context, we can ensure and improve sufficiently in the coming years both price situation and price development as well as security of supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e16347	Thank you. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. The first is Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. She's done a speech time of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e16377	Madam President. High house! Minister! Thank you for answering our questions, which are not entirely acceptable to us. First of all: In times of crisis, we have not only wished ourselves verbal discoveries from you, but also an actual action, an action that leads us out of this crisis. The appeal to the largest gas storage plants in Europe continues to show: They have not learned anything from the crisis, because it is not about strengthening the system and making us more dependent, but about putting ourselves off in the future of danger from such crises. They have said that the cost of the 45 percent target is far too high. – It is known to us that the study you quoted did not even consider the 34 percent of renewable energy sources possible. It is also a bit strange to point out the costs here, because obviously the € 40 million we spend in the year for the Euratom Treaty, the € 11.73 billion for fossil imports you mentioned, and the € 4 billion for the new gas power plants are not too high. If you are talking about the expansion of hydropower now, we should not only talk about expansion and CO2 emissions, but also about the water framework directive you have to implement. This provides for the expansion of hydropower only to the extent that it is also environmentally compatible. The state of flow water must also be taken into account and not only the expansion of hydroelectric power plants. In other words, where energy supply priorities are concerned, it has become clear today: the expansion of further gas power plants, of large-scale power plants. They have mentioned themselves that this would increase gas consumption by up to 50 percent by 2020, cause 10 million tons more CO2 and thus increase our dependence. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is exactly what we need for Austria: an chorded energy plan. The further expansion of the gas power is opposed to a de facto stopp in the development of green electricity. Obviously, the framework conditions here are so bad that the funds already available will not even be exploited. Unfortunately, you can't talk about this. It takes far more effort in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So we need an chorded energy plan, an integrated energy plan that takes into account, above all, energy efficiency, and you have not lost any word in your master plans, energy plans, whatever you call them. This is, however, the decisive measure to create independence in the supply of heat, in the power supply as well. I would also like to table a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brunner, colleagues, on the submission of an energy plan for Austria by 2030. . It was discussed with the Bureau that this request was distributed, so I will only explain it in principle now. It is about building the energy plan on savings, on efficiency, in order to reduce energy consumption, because every megawatt hour we do not need to produce saves resources – even for renewables, even those are not infinitely available to us. We need a consistent exit from fossil and atomic energy. We need to reduce our energy consumption and consistently convert to renewable energy. It's possible. In the electricity sector, we can create it at 100 percent by 2020 and in the heat sector – for the energy supply of households, because it is above all about their dependence on gas and gas. and oil price increases – for households, industry and services to 100 percent by 2030. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have also considered concrete measures that you will be able to take. As I said, first and foremost energy efficiency and finally technical standards, a national energy efficiency law, so to speak, from electrical appliances to vehicles, saving energy – has already been addressed today – especially in the field of building renovation. Here the rate has to be increased by up to 3 percent. The deficits, which lie mainly in the public sector, have already been mentioned. In addition, Wifo says that building renovation measures could also create 36 000 jobs, and that should not be mentioned. However, it does not only require € 100 million, but also a rehabilitation offensive of € 1 billion. We need a consistent changeover, a heating exchange programme to make it easier for households to change, and finally an eco electricity law that deserves its name. In fact, you only need to write down the German law, a law with long-term objectives, with appropriate funding and with financing security. In transport too, I think, a rethinking is very essential in order not to adhere again to outdated structures, to previous structures, but to install sustainable transport systems and energy systems. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are now facing a very important decision for the future: If we want to remain dependent on Russia or any other country, do we want to strengthen the nuclear lobby – or do we want to make the energy supply in Austria independent, based on renewable energy sources? Do we want to create a viable energy supply for the Austrian population and thus also jobs? - That's your decision now. We are finally waiting for action to be taken and appropriate measures to be taken! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e16489	Madam President, you have tabled two motions for resolutions. The motion for a resolution on the extension of new gas power plants has been properly put in place and is under negotiation. The motion for a resolution concerning the submission of an energy plan has been sufficiently explained in its key points and is based on its scope in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be distributed to Members and shall also be negotiated. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e16714	Next, Mr Katzian, speaking at a speaking time of 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e16735	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think anyone here in the room will question that the most important teaching we have to draw from the gas crisis is that it must be the top but also a medium-term goal to become independent of fossil energy sources. But I have to repeat at this point what I have already said this morning that this will not happen in a step from today to tomorrow, but that we need time to do so, a certain period of time that cannot be determined exactly today. To say something else is, in my opinion, unscrupulous. Therefore, we must do everything we can to ensure the supply of gas up to the time when we are no longer dependent on fossil energy sources. In ensuring the supply of gas, we must not neglect the goal of accessing different energy suppliers. The pipeline projects such as “Nabucco” and others, I think, are not to be seen as a self-interest, but precisely in the context I have just mentioned. We have heard it today from a variety of speakers in the current hour, and I believe that we too agree: We need to rely more on energy efficiency and energy savings than ever before. There are different approaches to this. That's how we have to go on the one hand. Set up appropriate incentives or implement measures such as free energy consulting, which are contained in the government programme. A key issue in this context must also be how we can enable socially weaker households to implement appropriate measures. And I am also thinking of those households that simply do not have the opportunity to make a contribution themselves if they are still so good and so high. It will be a matter of considering other measures, how these budgets can nevertheless be taken into account. However, I would also like to address the reform of the Climate and Energy Fund decided in the Council of Ministers. In my view, this will increase the efficiency of the Fund and enable it to better implement the research activities of the Climate and Energy Fund in order to improve energy efficiency. What will not play a role in the future in Austria is nuclear energy. I understand that various statements by former politicians and other personalities in this direction give rise to concern or discussion. I would like to say clearly to the Socialist Group that nuclear energy is not a future option for us. And I also assume that the consensus between all the parliamentary parties in this House, that nuclear power is not a future solution, will continue and that there will be no change in the Austrian position within the European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I expect the Federal Government to continue its efforts, as in the Government's programme, to bring about a reform of the Euratom Treaty by eliminating the objective of support and extending its purpose of protection. Not least, the various initiatives of our neighbouring countries show that the atomic lobby is in the uproar. Austria must, therefore, also be on the European market. to support new, sustainable energy initiatives to reduce Europe's dependence on nuclear energy. As mentioned several times: The immediate 100% abandonment of fossil energy sources will not be possible, but certainly a step-by-step approach. The hydropower has to play a major role in this, and here I am on what I said in the morning: There have long been not all possibilities for generating energy from hydropower. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, we will encounter natural boundaries in the use of hydropower. Therefore, in future we will also have to focus on other raw material-independent energy forms such as geothermal, solar energy, wind power. There is no question that there is still great potential in these forms of energy which we need to promote through targeted measures, such as in the promotion of housing or in the construction projects of the local authorities. I believe that we also agree that Europe will play an important role in the future design of energy policy. The European Union has a coordinating role here and should also have a fiscal role. As far as the European dimension of energy policy is concerned, however, I should like to point out that we are very reluctant or reluctant to some of the considerations that exist in the European Union. In particular, this is about the concept of the ‘Ownership Unbundlings’, because we assume that this would result in a massive reduction of necessary network investments, which would necessarily result in a decrease in security of supply. And according to the experience we have from the gas crisis in supporting measures that call into question security of supply, that can and will not be our goal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e16802	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein, Member of Parliament, with a desired term of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e16824	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Katzian, I would like to thank you for your recent commitment to social democracy to the rejection of nuclear power. Please be so kind and tell Mr Androsch, who is not sitting in the House, but who is at least irreconcilable as the chief economic advisor of the Federal Chancellor and who is cancelling down nuclear opponents who have the clear majority in this House, and even though he was never himself, that is chancellors! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But apart from that, Mr Katzian, from the principle, we are completely in agreement. Of course, when it comes to energy policy for Austria, Mr Energy Minister, it is a question of reducing, if possible, fossil energy. But that is precisely the fundamental difference between the approach of Mrs Glawischnig and the Greens and the approach taken by the Government. We are dealing with the subject matter with realistic assumptions, with realistic sizes. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, just keep in mind that the European Union as a whole has set itself the goal of making 20 percent of the total energy bill from renewable energy by 2020. Austria – and I say to you that is a very, very ambitious goal – wants to achieve 34 percent of this title. However, the difference between 34 and 100 is always 66 percent. And if we want to continue to abandon nuclear power other than France and others, we will have to cover this 66 percent of fossil energy. I don't think there's a third way to go. Mrs Glavischnig, you have been guilty of this argument in your self-righteousness. Where are your alternatives? They are talking about energy saving, energy change, appealing to the good in man and in the energy world, but unfortunately, it is not going to go out in the back and in the front. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen to go into detail: Of course, the study by A. T. Kearney is essentially a study to be confirmed; I can understand it. It almost surprises me, Mrs Klubobfrau, that you quote A. T. Kearney again and again, because it is correctly established that gas consumption and gas demand in Austria and the Union will rise dramatically. It says that our dependence on Russian gas will tend to rise more. I believe that in the medium term, in the next two or three decades, Russian natural gas will continue to be the backbone of our gas supply. It also says inside – you quoted it – that “Nabucco” could at best reduce this dependence by 5 percent. That's right. If you say that Europe and the European Union will then import 500 to 600 billion cubic meters, "Nabucco" can transport a maximum of 30 billion cubic meters, that is about 5 percent. But somewhere you have to start and therefore a clear yes from my point of view to these alternative pipeline routes, which are called “Nabucco” – is also most advanced in planning – “South Stream” and “North Stream”. Completely indisputable, at least with most in this house, is the commitment to hydropower, although it often degenerates in the greens to a lip confession. Because when it comes to concrete projects, for example, a medium-sized project, Minister Mitterlehner, you have quoted it, Gössendorf, then the yes of greens to hydropower is already gone. 18 megawatts, that's already too big, that's not going to happen, and then they're standing pede against it. In doing so, the expansion of hydropower, the hydropower master plan – I would stress this once again: with the exception of ecologically critical sites such as Hainburg, like Wachau; and, of course, that would not be possible – within the next ten years, as has been said, even without these sites, a total amount of electricity per year would bring about 7 billion kilowatt hours. This is by chance or not quite by chance exactly what we have to record at the moment in terms of import quantities. Austria, unfortunately, has become God's electricity grid importer. [[Calls to the Greens.]] – Yes, Mrs. Klubobfrau Glavischnig, there is nuclear current, no, you almost want to say. Power doesn't have a mesh and is just stretched over. But let's compare the CO2 savings from these 7 billion kilowatt hours. I re-insured once more: 3 million tonnes are the ones we could save on CO2. The entire eco electricity expansion programme, which is now included in the green electricity novelle, which is located in Brussels, brings us 1.5 million tonnes of CO2, if one ignores the large hydropower, 3 million if one includes it. – So far to the mass scaffolding and realities. Mrs Glavischnig, you have not been able to object to these figures on any occasion in recent years, because they are simply factual and are not really contradictory. On the issue of Autarkie, I have already said the necessary thing. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Energy has, in part, also discussed this philosophical approach here. Yes, we should strive for it, but at the same time: the 34 percent will be damn hard to reach, even if we do not really close ourselves to a reasonable, reasonable expansion of hydropower. Solidarity has been expressed by you, Mrs Glawischnig. – Solidarity would always be if the two EU countries, the only ones not connected by a power line, built such a one. Austria and Slovakia are the only two EU countries that do not have such a link so that in the case of the case, they can also be used with electricity. Speaking of solidarity: Within three or four days to build a gas pipeline, to transport some twenty million cubic meters of gas, that is something that can be seen. Because last but not least, Mr Brunner mentioned the Water Framework Directive: Firstly, these ministers will not have to implement Mitterlehner, but Mr Berlakovich, but it will be. It is certainly about implementing them, but please put them into practice so beautifully that essentially the production capacities are preserved from the title hydropower, anything else would be completely absurd. For whoever in Austria says about climate protection, who in Austria says about renewable energy, of course, friend Schultes, even to biomass, yes to wind power, yes to photovoltaics, but first of all, ladies and gentlemen, yes to hydropower – and not only in the form of lip confessions, not only inside here, but also outside, when it comes to the discussions with the citizens, dear Mrs Glawischnig!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e16915	Now comes Mr. Ing. Hofer with 8 minutes of desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e16936	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Katzian has previously said that in Austria we have adopted nuclear power from nuclear energy. If we are quite honest with ourselves, however, we must already admit that we are importing nuclear power to a far too high degree. Although we criticise those countries, especially our neighbouring countries, which rely on nuclear power, we are not prepared to abandon these imports which we are necessarily engaged in. That means that we should also be more honest in dealing with our neighbours and strengthen our own efforts to abandon this electricity produced from nuclear power in the future. We also need to be honest in the whole discussion on hydropower to use gas. I asked Mrs Glavischnig earlier: What do you call yourself at home? Also with gas. I understand this because you live in Vienna, and there's no other way to go if you have an apartment. But it is foolishly difficult to tell the citizen that you have to get out of this energy source if you use this energy source as a politician who wants to be exemplary here. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I will come to you every day! You are very interested in my personal life!]] I hope Mrs. Glavischnig, you don't say the heating belongs to your husband. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Don't talk about the solar thermal system! ...]] Yeah, but you're hot with gas? That's right, isn't it? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I'm hot with a solar thermal system!]] And with gas? All right, all right. I just wanted to know, thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I confess all my sins to you!]] I am not criticizing you at all. I am only telling the truth, Mrs Glavischnig! And if you don't hold the truth, you've chosen the wrong profession. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Last time you came to me and said that's not my car, the car belongs to my husband. Well, you just stopped driving this car, I don't care, but if you're asking the Austrians – stop buying me here! – If you, Mrs Glawischnig, ask the Austrians to leave, then you must also be a model yourself! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The car doesn't exist at all!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly the same as with Mr Graf. You criticize colleagues of our colleague Graf – and what does your youth do? This is what Parliament and the Federal Government want to do, and it wants to bring the occupying forces back to Austria! Well, that's a great team, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I doubt the intelligence of this chaos in the Green Youth! – Yes, yell in, you can, but otherwise you can’t do anything at all, nothing at all! [[Calls to the Greens.]] I say again: You are extremely unbelievable! Van der Bellen goes from Alpha to a Toyota Prius hybrid because he was given the car – before he was ready for it. Glavishly heats with gas. Wabl refers to atomic current. You are extremely unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You lie to the band!]] There is still a progressive party in comparison to the Greens, a progressive party. That's why it's always right to say: Green Party policy, which is like with the melons: green outside, red inside. So it is, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now to the essential areas. We need to consider how we can change in Austria, how we can achieve greater independence. Photovoltaic, solar thermal, biomass, wind power and – yes, we also have to use hydropower to achieve this greater independence! Previously, the colleague Brunner, whom I very much appreciate, said that we need to invest € 1 billion in order to achieve a thermal rehabilitation offensive in Austria. Unfortunately, this figure is not correct to this extent; I have already mentioned it: In order to clean up the entire old house and old house stock thermally in Austria, we need an investment of €80 billion! In order to trigger this investment, we need an additional investment of €8 billion in addition to the existing funding already available. That means that we have to spend €800 million over ten years. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a lot of money, but it pays off because we also support the domestic economy, and it is mainly small and medium-sized enterprises that carry out these thermal rehabilitation measures on site. That is why I am very much in favour of taking the money into hand here too, because that is also a social question. Much too many Austrians depend on heating aid. However, it is wise to assist affected persons as part of the thermal renovation, also to support the purchase of pellet fireplaces, as a year after year, to pay a heating check. That means, here we have to think a lot, much more into the future. The second measure, which I have already said today, concerns the security fireplace. Unfortunately, this safety fireplace is no longer provided for in all construction regulations in Austria. That is, I can build a house in Burgenland today, this house can be heated with electricity and does not have to provide a fireplace – or heat with gas, as does the woman Glawischnig. So, what happens then? There's no gas coming in, there's no electricity supplies, and I don't even have the opportunity to heat my house with normal wooden shoots. That is to say, it is necessary, for reasons of security, for reasons of internal security, to provide this safety fireplace for every household, for every house in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another measure, which we can implement and which can be implemented, concerns the halving of VAT on all energy from domestic and renewable sources. This means that in the future, for example, a company like BEWAG, which sells electricity exclusively from renewable sources – wind power, hydropower – will become much more competitive compared to Yello, for example, because Yello relies on nuclear power. This measure is in line with competition law. This measure is in line with the European VAT Directive. That means that this could actually be implemented. Another measure has been raised by the Greens today and is also set out in the request to vote. We will not support this request from the Greens – one of three requests; we will support two requests – because they state here that the passive house standard must be mandatory. I would really be very much in favour if that were possible, but unfortunately it is not technically possible anywhere, for topographic reasons. If I want to build my house in a very narrow mountain valley, where there are only a few hours of sun, then it is not possible to build a passive house there. For example, if I am disabled and have to build a barrier-free bungalow, it is very difficult to build a passive house. It's possible, but it's difficult. If I have a plot and I have the bad luck that my neighbor has a high house, and so I have less hours of sunshine, I can't build a passive house again. That means that this is a mistake in this request, and that is why we unfortunately cannot accept this request. Ladies and gentlemen! We also need to think about mobility and transport. I would be very much for this if we were to go a completely new way in the framework of the motor insurance tax and no longer tax the performance of the car, but rather the consumption of fuel, because it is quite possible that a vehicle with 150, 160, 170 hp consumes less fuel than a vehicle that has 70, 80 hp. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: It's closely related!]] This means that it is much more useful to go another way, namely after fuel consumption, including in the case of motor insurance tax. From my point of view, it would also be necessary to go a completely new way at the NoVA. In any case, the NoVA is not entirely impeccable. Already in advance one should ensure that owners of vehicles that consume little fuel, less than four liters, for example – there are already; for example, my vehicle only needs 3.3 liters – no nova or motorway vignettes have to pay or are exempt from the fee in the short park zone. All these measures are enforceable and we could implement them. Ladies and gentlemen, that is to say, what we must work together to achieve greater independence in our home country – an independence that frees us from cartels, from Sheikh and from Oligarchen! We are prepared to take this path together with all responsible forces in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e17108	Member of the European Parliament, to clarify: It has also been announced to me by you that a motion for a resolution has not been tabled. The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Lugar. Also 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e17132	High house! Thank you, Mr President. The Federal Chancellor said that he had already foreseen the crisis. He said that he was perfectly clear, a long time ago, that this crisis would be much more severe than it was suspected by many. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It was already the Federal Chancellor! I can only say to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: That sounds like a self-esteem! If that really is the case, if you really knew, months ago that this crisis is going to be a serious one, a serious world economic crisis, why didn't you do anything about it? Why does the government programme not think anything about the economic crisis? If you look at that, you have to say: [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the government programme up to date]] These are very, very many pages, but there is nothing specific in them. And to the few measures that are inside that could help the economy, I must say: They ask: Why don't we decide these already today or tomorrow? Why does the government not present anything in this regard? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Because she's asleep! Because she kills!]] Why can't any of this be decided? Why is the government sluggish? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Bucher: short work!]] That's right! The government has a top goal, and this top goal is not to fight as much as possible and to make no mistakes as possible. [[Abg. Hörl: That's something!]] Yes, yes! I can guarantee you one thing: This government will not make any mistakes if you continue to do so! [[Abg. Hagen: Those who don't work can't make mistakes either!]] That's right! Those who don't work can't make mistakes either, according to the motto: [[OBJECTIVES]] Don't think about it, you won't miss anything! This is the process of this government. But from my point of view, this government must finally take control of the clock and take action. The world economic crisis is also coming to Austria very slowly. There is always a delay of several years. First it always hits the USA, then Germany comes in, and finally we come to the end. You can feel it with us. It is true that the population does not feel so much, but the businesses already feel it. I have been to some establishments in Lower Austria in recent weeks, especially in the field of construction and construction, and there I have been told that in recent months a drop in orders of up to 35 percent has taken place. According to these companies, it is not yet planned to release people, but if this situation does not change radically if they do not get orders soon, then I believe that we will face a wave of dismissal in spring, at the latest in early summer. The developments that Japan has set out to us, as it were, will then also take place with us. I don't know if everyone here knows that Japan had a similar situation 15 years ago. In Japan, there has been a deflation for 15 years, which has become somewhat better in the last two years, but in the large and Gan-zen there has been a real income loss of 30 percent in 15 years. I emphasize: a loss of income of 30 percent, with all the negative consequences! Japan is overindebted to both ears and has not been able to escape from this deflation spiral again. That's why I'm saying: Our government must finally take the issue and take action! [[Abg. Hörl: They're all on the go anyway!]] That's right, they're not here! Either they are diligent at work and work out programs that we hopefully can decide soon, or they just take a break. [[Abg. Hear: Eben!]] I don't know what's more, we'll see. There are more than 20,000 public buildings in Austria. According to a recent study, more than 90 percent of these could benefit from thermal rehabilitation. In addition, there are 1.5 million single-family houses in Austria, which were built between 1945 and 1980. With these 1.5 million single-family homes, you can save up to 80 percent energy. If you take all of this together, you can see that there is a savings potential of € 2 billion per year. That is, if we are dealing with this properly, then we can save € 2 billion of energy here, which does not have to be imported or produced, which, of course, also helps the economy, because € 2 billion is then available for domestic measures and does not go to Russia or elsewhere. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There's a GfK study that's basically what I said now. In this study, such rehabilitation measures have only advantages. Why do they only have advantages? – On the one hand, I save energy, which brings something to everyone in the long term. On the other hand, I support the economy, especially the construction industry, the construction industry. Thirdly, I'm going to be an energy author. That means I can save 20 percent of the total energy. With the thermal renovation alone, where it makes sense, we can save 20 percent of the total energy. Do you know what that means? [[Abg. Wheeler: More!]] Even more! The ÖVP says, even more. Imagine that! But we're just leaving this opportunity out. But what does this government do? Let's take a look at this! This government also has completely “ambitated” goals: She wants to take over 100 million. I emphasize: 100 million for thermal rehabilitation! You know what that means, 100 million? I looked at that. These are the restructuring costs of 10 to 15 larger public buildings – of more than 20,000! That's exactly what you can do with these 100 million. That's clearly a lot, far too little. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: That's not enough for Villach!]] [[Abg. Head: We're talking about promotion, not investment!]] According to the GfK study – and this is very credible – we have to take in €3.5 billion each year to really move something substantial. These are investments that really pay off! That would be reasonable investment, and for such investments it makes sense to make debt, because these are debt into the future of our country, which are not consumer debt or debt for interception hunters or other stupidity, but that really does mean something, because there we can save energy, and that must be our top goal, in addition to all the other measures that are necessary to finally become energy-autarchy in Austria. I expect the government to make appropriate proposals, to develop appropriate programmes, to take up our ideas, and we as BZÖ can guarantee that we will always vote in favour of reasonable proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e17318	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e17339	Madam President. Mr Mitterlehner, President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. I can remind you that in addition to the greens, there are others who have already recognized these problems – perhaps that will help you! – and may present to you a quote from the International Energy Agency from the World Energy Outlook, in order to make clear the dimensions here. This is particularly necessary in the case of the ÖVP, for otherwise your predecessor and now honourable Member Bartenstein would not have argued equally retro-wantedly. [[Abg. Grill: Go, please! Excuse me!]] Well, look, you have to consider what the “P” on behalf of your party means in view of this energy policy. Maybe we'll come back to it today. I quote: The current trends in energy supply and consumption are clearly not sustainable, both in environmental and economic or social terms. – It's not that kind of mind flash! [[Abg. Hörl: Pellets!]] Let me quote: However, this can and must be changed. To do this, there is nothing less than an energy revolution. - Quote. [[Abg. Grillisch: What do you mean by “P”?]] If this was now a crisis, or in some countries, even an emergency, and if it had been possible for a longer period of time in Austria, then there are still quite other questions to be asked here because of your answers, Mr Federal Minister. We're on a run-off. Where to invest if you want to, where to invest? That's the question now! In further dependencies and less security of supply? In value creation in Iran, Turkmenistan or Russia – or here in Austria, with the corresponding consequences for jobs? Look, you just invest in the past, you invest in further dependence, because only as far as investment in the gas power plants and pipelines in Austria is concerned, we now hold plus/minus 5 billion. There is no involvement in the "Nabucco" project, which will still be addressed. [[Abg. Grillisch: What do you mean by “P”?]] You could expect that differently! You might expect this to be the way we could use this money to invest in Austria, for example in the expansion of biomass – it is there again! – where, in smaller-space solutions, both electricity and heat are produced, where not, as with the Mellach project you apostrophic, most energy is used to heat up the air and the Mur. [[Abg. Grill: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Hörl: B like Berta means what you mean! Biomass!]] With these quantities, you might as well join a fish soup store at the bottom of the Mur. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] That might sound funny, but it's actually tragic. They don't even bother to take a closer look at this. 800 MW power, that's huge! If you now calculate any CO2 savings from power plants that have been closed before, then that is, I think, the completely wrong bill. The broad invoice is the: What else can I do with the investments planned there? But you refuse this task, you don't hire this account at all. They support the OMV in its efforts to import much more gas. Finally, in the next few years, the gas import, together with all the side appearances, will be increased by 50 percent when all of this is implemented. That's just the completely wrong way of making this release! Let us stick to the argument “Safety of supply and possible reduction of dependencies”! It is naïve to believe, however, as you have argued here, that if we find exploration fields in Turkmenistan, we are so much more independent. It is enough to study the international newspapers to know that Putin's plan to build a gas cartel has long been under way. They'll secure the contracts there. In part, you yourself argued that Gazprom is even in relation to the lines in there, even with us in Austria. That is, can you say, a very normal process of power in this market, but do you not pretend to be able to reduce dependence with these plans? That's the problem! You are investing in the wrong thing, and you will not be able to argue it so easily – even then, Mr Bartenstein, if you keep the Greens in the argument with the hydropower. We like to get involved in this match. This is, in some way, a limited form of energy, measured by the residual potential that exists in Austria. There are only more than 30 percent of all the potential that exists in these rivers – you have heard this before – and at least half of them are already bound by international contracts. What you can achieve with the expansion plan will cover by 2020 – if at all! – the amount of increase we have in electricity consumption and in electricity demand. [[Abg. Hear: After all!]] It has failed ten times to focus on the reduction of consumption and to invest in it. You can do that too! That's energy efficiency. Unfortunately, the completely wrong path has been taken in Austria. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] They're laughing at it! Until recently, there have been federal states in which housing promotion has looked so good that electric heating has been promoted. That's an energy crime! [[Abg. Rädler: In Upper Austria!]] That's it! In Burgenland, for example. It just came out on pressure from the greens. Go to the Naschmarkt and see how electrical power is used in Austria! In the meantime, in order to be able to celebrate outside at Minusgraden party, beamers that also work outdoors are powered by electricity. So, obviously, everything is possible. As long as this is possible, namely such waste, partly also in industry, we do not need to talk about showing the last rivers, especially if they are untouched. Where it is ecologically compatible, we are there. Finally, stop spreading your arousal tales here, because you are not credible either, because when it comes to wind power or the like, it is usually the party members of your party who oppose it! I would also like to express this request, and then let us see who is really standing right here in the stable – to continue here with my colleague Grillitsch, who wanted to provoke something here with his calls earlier. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It's just like this: You think of the ÖVP as going in the right direction here. [[Abg. Head: That's what we mean, otherwise we wouldn't!]] [[Abg. Grill: We do it too!]] In reality – and that is really disappointing! – awarded They have great opportunities in terms of the labour market and in terms of economic regional value added. Therefore, not only are you not credible in this area, but you have long since discharged as an economic party in the energy sector – and perhaps elsewhere. That's the problem! We will accept the challenge and look for the match with you. This means that you, Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner and Mr Bartenstein, can also count on Styria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e17540	Next, Mr. Ing. Gartlehner. 6 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e17562	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Mrs. Federal Minister! I can quite rightfully give Mr Kogler regarding his statements on gas imports in the long term. However, I do not see any alternative to the current gas imports, in the short and medium term. I believe that it is necessary to cover the demand for peak current in the industrial sector, which must be available in the short term. This is currently only possible with gas or oil heating or oil energy gains. I also believe that it is not correct or not entirely objective if it is claimed that only we are dependent on these gas and oil exporting countries. There is a mutual dependence on this matter, because these countries are suing the vast resources from their gas and oil reserves and are equally dependent on them selling and delivering this gas and oil to us. I would just like to mention that Saudi Arabia is currently having major budgetary problems because the oil price is so low. The Saudis need $75 per barrel to have a balanced household at all. So we see that these mutual relations, if they are still politically well accompanied and developed, give rise to quite reasonable economic relations. That is why I also believe that “Nabucco” or “South Stream”/ “North Stream” is a development opportunity for many regions that can immerse themselves in this network. Apart from that, it is not the OMV or the Republic of Austria alone that takes over 5 billion for “Nabucco”, which is indeed a consortium, and the Austrian share is only part of it. I believe it is clear that in the field of research and innovation, we must make a significant effort to develop alternative energy sources and energy systems in the medium term. Austrian engineering and Austrian researchers and developers are here at the ball. Here I can quote some very concrete, highly interesting projects, which can lead to concrete products in this segment for the next two or three years, which could lead to small revolutions in the field of photovoltaics as well as in the field of third generation fuels and would continue to export again worldwide about the effects of LED technology, an Austrian technology. We also know that the Austrian conservatives, if I may say so, are investing in traditional energy companies such as the OMV and others very much and very committed to wind technology and, in part, also in photovoltaics, in places where the services fit through the sunlight and the tariffs. We therefore also see the change here, this cautious change of our large companies towards new technologies. They are very interested in this and for- In this context, it is important for the Commission to take into account the needs of the Member States of the European Union and their Member States. I believe that there are also very interesting Austrian developments in the field of small hydropower, which are not part of the megawatt sector, which we are now considering as much more attractive economic returns as we can in the case of small hydropower plants in the traditional sense, which are more environmentally compatible, which are cost-effective and which, in my opinion, represent a very interesting opportunity for communities and municipalities to enter into the energy production in the small energy sector. Generally, I believe, of course, that there is a great opportunity to do even with Austrian LED technology Furore. There is an Austrian company that offers a serial LED lamp in the area of street lights. Covered all over Europe: To convert these billion light bulbs into street areas would result in an energy saving of around 46 power plants in the magnitude of Freudnau. I think that is also a medium-term project. This new technology will take years to implement and implement, but Austria too, I think, is well positioned. Therefore, I think that the mix of innovation, the expansion of security in the traditional structure – we also have the opportunity to fill some gas storage sites in Upper Austria with a few billion cubic meters of natural gas – is that the area of innovation and energy saving will be in the sum of the mix, which will ensure Austria in the energy sector, but on the other hand, that many new jobs can also be created in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e17613	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e17634	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today's urgent request offers us the opportunity to discuss developments in the energy sector with the focus on Austria. Fossil energy is energy that has been saved over millions of years, so to speak, and is currently consumed in huge dimensions within a short period of time. This has a negative impact on the environment, for example by means of floods, storm damage or, globally, in the form of climate change. We must also note, however, that scarce goods are becoming relatively expensive relatively quickly. In the example of crude oil, we must recognize that within ten years the price of crude oil has increased tenfold! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, from my point of view, the security of supply of our home country Austria should be considered as much higher than the energy price alone. The energy flow picture of the Republic of Austria clearly and clearly shows what amounts of energy come to Austria, in what form they are converted and in what form they are net to use, or also the significant proportion that is lost and is not used profitably. However, because of this energy flow picture it is clear that in Austria we can rely on a success: on the one hand, hydropower and on the other side biomass. It is precisely these two areas that we must have more in mind in the future. The most important dimension in this context, however, is the formation of opinions, the formation of opinions and the formation of opinions when it comes to saving energy. The energy saved is known to be the one that is the cheapest and the most ecological. But this opinion-forming process must take place at all levels and in all areas. Every day that is lost in this context is a lost day. There are very positive examples in Austria. I have noticed this morning in the debate that there are many Members of this House who have the impression that they have invented renewable energy today. I remember a lot of names of people who were highly smiled 15 and 20 years ago when they took concrete steps in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many good examples, you only have to multiply them in this context. We need to place more emphasis on innovation and research in the future, but we also need to take note of certain things and make massive changes. We must be aware that in Austria almost the same amount of diesel oil as in heating oil is used! But it is not an intelligent solution to burn oil in the basement. Therefore, I am to a great extent for a scrapping premium for oil boilers – as well as for old vehicles, ladies and gentlemen! [[Oh-noise and detonatative condolences with the greens.]] Many of these measures are what we need to put in place in the future. But – Mrs Glawischnig, also addressed to your address – we need to move faster when it comes to exchanging turbine rates that do nothing but achieve higher efficiency. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: scrapping premium for oil heating: A great idea!]] More economic yield and more ecological yield: This means that it is not through pointless environmental impact assessments, and I say that I have a positive assessment of this. [[Abg. Gahr: Bravo!]] We need to think holisticly, and I ask you in this context... – No, we too are responsible for this in the course of the Environment Council; you know that. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The countries are responsible for this, for the EIA!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, using the example of Chrysler, the third largest car producer in the United States, you can see how fast you can stand on the storage track. The third largest car producer in the United States currently has the situation that FIAT acquires 35 percent of its shares and doesn't have to pay a cent or a dollar for it, but only needs to supply it with technology and knowledge, namely how to build smarter smaller cars – a fact that you couldn't imagine a few years ago! There are many questions and many answers, one has been asked by Mr Kogler. He wanted to explain to me what the “P” stands for at the ÖVP. If you take a holistic view of the ÖVP and ignore the sequence of letters, then ÖVP stands for "Use Austrian pellets", Mr Kogler. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude by submitting a resolution on an overall energy policy strategy for Austria. I make this request on behalf of Mr Bartenstein, Mr Katzian, Mr Schultes, Mr Petra Bayr, and colleagues. “The Austrian Federal Government is invited to continue to work at EU level to strengthen energy security; to take all necessary steps to reduce the dependence of the Austrian energy supply on supplies of fossil fuels from third countries; to force and promote research, exploitation and production of renewable energy forms; to be intensive at European and international level in the exchange of knowledge on the latest research results...”
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e17707	Ladies and gentlemen, I am just interrupting you. It has already been clarified with me that this request should be distributed on the basis of its length, so that you do not need to make the entire request for reading. In the meantime, I draw attention to this very quickly. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e17722	Madam President. I don't know if you just started my phone and so my tractor, but I take note of that. I would like us to work together in terms of energy supply and security of energy supply and in the area of the future strategy in order to ensure the best possible protection for the population of Austria, and to support this resolution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e17752	Mr Hornek, of course I did not want to prevent you from reading the entire proposal here. But I thought I was pointing to this support in the meantime. This motion for a resolution is properly tabled in accordance with paragraph 53. 4 GOG to the MEPs and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e17863	The next item is the speech by Mr Neubauer. 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e17884	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! If you turn to today's speakers for the first time. Agenda item has been heard so far, then you think: What ideas are often born in this house are great, only it always goes from one crisis to another, and it seems that you need crises in order to make declarations of intent – but in the end never happens! This always reminds me of the mayor of Vienna, who is quite surprised every year that the administration of Vienna is overwhelmed, just because in December or January maybe snow falls once. Now it's just falling! But apparently one has not drawn the appropriate lessons from the past years, and that is why one is always surprised after a snowfall. The same will be true of this crisis. This gas crisis has really also shown the whole “poverty” of this EU: how unruly and steadfast it has faced this situation! In fact, the Republic has only drawn from the reserves that it thanked God, but in fact we have not learned anything from the past crisis. That is why we should perhaps propose Mr Putin and Mrs Timoshenko for an energy and environmental price, because they have done something that no one has actually done in recent years, namely to promote awareness of how difficult this path is in the use of gas and how difficult it is to use fossil energy in the future. No one has been more successful in this exit advertising than this Putin and Timoshenko have done in these two weeks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But that can only mean one thing: Turn of energy, get out of this pointless one-way road! If even the National Security Council has once decided on changes in energy supply – I quote: Under the impression of the gas dispute, it is proposed to reduce the dependence on the Austrian security of supply of fossil fuels from third countries and therefore demand that research, utility and production of alternative forms of energy be forced and promoted in Austria – ladies and gentlemen, then fire is on the roof! Actually, it is a sensation that we need the National Security Council, which calls on this government to finally act. I thank you very much for this insight, but I am concerned that the consequences for SPÖ and ÖVP will no longer be present in two months. They will no longer be present, and it is a problem that constantly dominates us that these declarations of intent are there, but ultimately no action will be made. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The ideologies on how to address this problem are clearly too different. Mrs Bayr and Mrs Grossmann, you said today, you have such great ideas: Please, who prevents you from putting these into practice?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Weinzinger: The government!]] You're in the government, why don't you? – They say we criticize. Yes, we rightly criticise! You're in the government, you're finally doing something! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let me give you two examples. First example: The Ecostrom Act is immediately innovative. Where are we going if we keep this law in this form for even longer? We make ourselves a complete lobby of the Industrial Union. The question to the Federal Minister, which I cannot ignore either: Why has the Climate and Energy Fund paid only € 1 million to date, despite huge and huge amounts of money? – No one can explain that to me, although the andrang is huge. Apparently this is a purely Potemkinian village. The import of nuclear power has increased to 30 percent, ladies and gentlemen, and that in a country that is proud to have prevented a plebiscite of Zwentendorf. It can't be! I warn against a return of nuclear power, even if lobbyists like Androsch and others in the EU repeatedly demand this. I warn you that climate protection is being abused in order to bring nuclear power back into the EU through the back door. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that we are going back to the past to solve the energy issues of the future! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Bohunice, Mochovce, Krško and Temelín are scrap tractors, and these scrap tractors are really disposed of, ladies and gentlemen! Here the EU has failed massively, because it cannot be said that, in the example of Bohunice, there is only one obligation to shut down. The European Union's entry into the European Union has become a reality through the back door, because the switch-off alone cannot solve the problem, but there must be mechanisms, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen, also with technical measures, that re-opening can no longer be possible in the future. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] As the only person in this House, the Liberal Party has responded to this whole development and has brought an action before the European Court of Human Rights. We are very pleased that this complaint will be dealt with positively in terms of the health of the population. Ladies and gentlemen! After all, the Bohunice exit cost us more than €600 million, so we also have a moral right to comply with the appropriate measures. In connection with these measures, I shall now put forward the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to take all the measures necessary to permanently withdraw from the EURATOM Treaty.’ My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, use this opportunity today to take this opportunity! Acknowledge that the EURATOM Treaty does not, as Mr Fuhrmann said, renovate the maritime nuclear power plants, but is thus deliberately being refinanced! That's the wrong way! That's why: Support our request!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e17959	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18008	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18031	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! A small correction to the comments made by Mr von der FPÖ. – If you file a international law complaint outside of Brussels, it is good and right. I'm just wondering: Why did you not support our request last time for a international lawsuit against the Czech Republic? [[Abg. Weinzinger: Because he was from BZÖ!]] I'm just wondering! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Today we have heard a lot about the energy crisis, about measures against it, and also about how to make Austria largely energy self-sufficient. We have also noted that this federal government, this “runner government”, which is still behind me – there are only two members there – has actually done little to date, except to manage the gas reserves. To the objectives, I must say that this Federal Government has a share of renewable energy of 34 percent. In an interview a few weeks ago, colleague Mitterlehner even said that this would be too much, too high. Her predecessor, Mr Pröll, was still a bit ambitious, who still spoke of 45 percent according to the old government program. So according to the motto: May it be a bit less?, the new government has now also written less into the government programme and has also reduced the percentages. Can I give you a positive example? – Carinthia has already reached 42 percent of renewable energy. And that would actually be the standard for Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Carinthia is crazy!]] Carinthia is an insanity – perfectly true of this call of call from the FPÖ – because it is just ruled orange. That's not a topic at all! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Carinthia is crazy. Carinthia's lead. We need to create more energy supply, and we need a government that offers more than the Minister for Economic Affairs, who says: We're building a few hydropower plants, a few gas power plants, and we're taking care of gas crises from storage. We need more! We need intelligent, concrete concepts, objectives with financing plans. We don't have that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We need a government that is more than a government of smiling, a government that offers more than five years of smiling and being friendly. We're experiencing a government of the standstill. Two days of plenary – and a total of two government documents. What kind of work is this, ladies and gentlemen? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I still wrote in my concept: You've got government work short, but if I look behind me, you just don't do government work. That is the point, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: What do you want? You've got the ministers Fekter and Mitterlehner anyway!]] Unlike Mitterlehner, who thinks he doesn't need an energy summit, I think he needs it, because there are a lot of people in Austria who have good ideas, be it at universities, whether it be experts in the Chamber of Commerce, whether it be in the industrial association, whether it be the construction contractors, or the banks. I would all get myself to a table to discuss where the train should go. That would be good! [[Call the ÖVP:And the BZÖ?]] – And also the BZÖ! A perfectly correct call from the ÖVP ranks. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As far as EU policy is concerned, you know what the EIA is all about. Why don't you support our requests? That's what I'm about to say: EURATOM has already been mentioned many times. Charming colleague Fuhrmann – she is now no longer in the hall – said: You have to make nuclear power plants safe! – Yes, do you know what you finance annually with €40 million tax money? They feed 40 million € of taxpayers annually to the EU's nuclear lobby to preserve high-risk reactors for longer. That's the point! And you can only say no to that. We've got to get rid of them and turn them off. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am not in favour of extending the high risk around Austria with our tax money. I am in favour of using this €40 million for renewable energy. The following is still at the address of the government, including the address of the FPÖ, which is always so preoccupied here: We did in November 2008... [[Abg. Neubauer: At BZÖ you simply can't hold back!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Listen! There you can learn something at the far right edge of the left block! Listen, please. [[Abg. Weinzinger: What is this new tick that you always go to FPÖ? Is that because of the country elections?]] We had a meeting of the European Parliamentarians in Brussels in November, in Strasbourg outside, together with the national parliaments. Whoever shone by absence, you were of the FPÖ; and also the ÖVP was prevented. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Was that a meeting of the BZÖ?]] Even there, before Commissioner Wallström and also before the President of the European Parliament, I took the view that we must get out of this EURATOM Treaty, that it must not be for the countries which have no nuclear power to pay in. I wish you, if you already talk big – and this also applies to SPÖ and ÖVP – to the same position outside Strasbourg, in Brussels. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On EU policy in general, it should be noted that the EU has very good approaches. It relies on diversification, on renewable energies. There's still a lot to do and do. Climate change in particular will help to reduce the need for heat energy in the north and increase electricity in the south, because the cooling units are being used there. In addition, there is the idea that in the north of the EU power plants, hydropower plants are increasingly expanding and to build so-called solar thermal power plants in the south of the EU or also in North Africa, in order to ensure a balance of electricity in the European network network. To Austria itself – and this is actually my focus –: It's about thermal renovation. Mr Lugar did this. What are 100 million €? That's 15, 20 bigger companies. If you clean it up, the money's gone. So I ask you to expand the program to 100, 200, 300, 400, 500 million €, so that a real... – 1 billion € is even better. [[Abg. Wheeler: 1 billion!]] If the ÖVP already says that, we'll do it the same! So 1 billion to advance thermal renovation to create jobs in order to directly support renewable energy, increase climate protection. I'm saying that very consciously now! In times of economic crisis – and I do not think this is funny and I do not understand that you are laughing at the ÖVP – where 300 000 people are now on the road – and in autumn it will be up to 600,000 – you could employ a variety of them. You think that's funny? If the programmes are there – but the programmes are not there, Mr EIA's colleague, they are not there, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs – then you could now provide employment. The construction season starts in March and April. And where are the programs? Not there! The only thing you have is 100 million € dry written into a fad government program. That's all. And that's the point! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We will therefore also present concepts to you in order to show you how to make it better. We will hold our own energy clause with experts in early summer and show you how energy policy can look. In conclusion, I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18252	The application which has just been submitted is sufficiently supported, properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18303	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18324	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, in your reply to the question or in the reply to the urgent questions today, one was really terrifying at the beginning. The question is: Until when You have created a master plan on energy, which clearly focuses on the security of Austrian energy supply? And there was the answer: on the 31st day. ==References== In more than a year – and finally, if you look at it closely, a third of the government period is over – there is a plan once. Then this will probably be discussed a third of the period, and then this government will prepare itself for the next elections. Mr Minister, I ask you: When will the security of Austria's energy future actually take place? Because one must be clear: It will be about the two “s” in energy policy, that is, safe and clean. “Safe and clean” can be achieved with energy efficiency and renewable energies. In the final analysis, it is about securing energy supply, the feasibility to ensure independence and, of course, to safeguard and create jobs. And when it comes to clean, it is naturally about protecting the climate, protecting the environment and the health of our children in the long term. When again the topic of hydropower is brought into the discussion today, let me say, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP: The world is not black or white or black or red, but it is differentiated to look at. And the Greens have a differentiated attitude to hydropower, which we also demonstrate very well with our green government participation in Upper Austria. There are about 570 small water plants in Upper Austria, which deliver about 7 percent of total electricity consumption. Some 200 power plant operators have started to modernise it with the support of the country of Upper Austria. In part, new ones have also been built, and not only for the microwater power plants, but also for larger ones. There is therefore more differentiated access to hydropower: It is about hydropower involving nature conservation and the population and the clear orientation for the efficiency and modernisation of existing installations. If we are talking about the expansion of renewable energies and the expansion of hydropower, Minister, then it simply has to be clear that nuclear power imports need to be reduced or set to zero in this way. Hiefor this there must be a level plan, how that can be done. What you have now, so the current planning of energy policy will be nothing. That's not gonna happen! There are around €50 million in the EURATOM Treaty, which would be much better placed in energy efficiency, in renewable energies. This would create jobs in the region, strengthen the economy and make it independent. This high-subsidisation is something that we clearly reject in energy policy. It must be cost-truth, and cost-truth means in the atomic stream that the promotions, the subsidies must end, because this keeps the atomic lobby alive and promotes the renaissance of nuclear power. We have to rely on clean energy, and that means a clear focus on green electricity. This is due to a new eco electricity law, which is due to an extension of the duration of the funding for fair tariffs and a purchase guarantee, i.e. all that we do not have at the moment. Ecostrom means nothing but freedom and independence, and that is exactly what it should be about in energy policy. In the course of this debate, I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the sense of the Austrian and European energy future, I would like to ask you today to support this proposal. [[Abg. Großruck: Ice-free for Greenland you have forgotten!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18409	This request is also properly filed and is being negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18489	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18511	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This urgent request is a good opportunity for all those Members who blame the government for failure and disorientation in energy policy, the Government Declaration by our Chancellor Werner Faymann of 3 October 1973. ==References====External links== This declaration states, among other things, that renewable energy must be increased. The Federal Government is primarily an ambitious climate and therefore also an ambitious energy policy. The necessary investment amounts for the expansion of renewable energy and the increase in energy efficiency can be found, and all of you know that again in the Federal Government's economics package. The EU has set itself the goal of covering 20 percent of its final energy consumption from renewable energy sources by 2020. The objective of Austria is 34 percent, and our government wants to achieve this goal, yes, if possible. Taking into account the recent energy problems caused by the gas supply stop in Russia, the Federal Government has, and we have heard this a few times today, commissioned a master plan for renewable energy to the ministries for the economy and the environment. The Master Plan is intended to, and the emphasis is to be on, the acceleration of hydropower projects and process reductions. The Federal Government is also committed to reducing the dependence on the Austrian energy supply of supplies of fossil fuels from third countries. Furthermore, the climate and energy funds adopted by law, which deal with the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and, above all, with the security of Austria's energy supply, have proved very well. This fund has been funded for the period from 2007 to 2010 with a funding volume of up to €500 million and is intended to serve the Federal Government in the implementation of sustainable energy supply and the increase in the research rate. The funding will support innovative projects mainly in terms of energy-saving and environmentally friendly future. However, I would also like to point out that the increased use of renewable energies such as hydropower, windmills and wind power plants, solar energy, solar panels, thermal power plants and the energetic use of biomass must be forced and promoted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me, it is also important that, due to the favourable geographical situation of Austria, there is massive progress to be made due to the expansion of hydropower. However, solar energy and global heat, which are present in relatively large quantities, must also increasingly meet the energy needs. Since Austria is one of Europe's most densely forested countries with a forest content of more than 46 percent, the use of biomass is of great importance for space heating especially in rural areas. Heat pumps for hot water preparation and space heating are now supported by various direct promotions and by tax reliefs. However, in order to ensure the supply of natural gas, particularly in Eastern Europe, the development of new gas routes and sources of gas should be continued. For Austria, nuclear energy must not play a role in future energy supply. For me, it is very important that we should stick to the clear rejection of nuclear energy. Therefore, of course, research into other renewable forms of energy should be pursued more closely and the exchange of knowledge at European and international level should be encouraged. We must also note, however, that at the same time energy saving measures must be further called for, intensified and promoted. As a significant example, the relatively high percentage of energy consumption, which falls from air conditioning and space heating, should be mentioned. A not very complex but all the more efficient measure is an optimal thermal insulation. – In this context, greater attention must also be paid to raising awareness in the structure of energy savings and climate relevance. Finally, a few words on your tenacious accusation that the government has failed in energy policy. [[Abg. Neubauer: Sorry, that's a fact!]] – In today’s ORF news, the following have been reported: Austria has the largest natural gas storage in the world as a percentage. – I think this is the result of not only an adjusted energy policy but also a forward-looking energy policy. Safe, sustainable and socially compatible energy supply is at the heart of the energy policy of our Federal Government. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18565	Mr Rädler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18587	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr Widmann from BZÖ – he's not here now. I would advise him to read through the EIA's motion for a resolution, because there he can orientate on Euratom. – It says precisely that we want to expand the purpose of protection, and for that, I believe, he also enters. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: You are not supposed to “do” it, you should do it!]] I would therefore ask that this motion for a resolution be put forward and distanced from the milkmaid accounts, that very little can be done with those 100 million for the thermal rehabilitation which he and his predecessors have addressed from the BZÖ. – Yes, if one assumes a 100 percent rate of funding – that’s apparently what this milkmaid bill is – then one won’t do much. But if you confess to thermal renovation, and we do, we will be able to accomplish a lot. But now to the actual request, to this urgent request of the Greens with 25 questions: In terms of content, there is actually nothing that could give an answer to the future, but only missed. [[Abg. Oillinger:... that's why... request!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Have you read the applications as well?]] That reminds me of the time of that time: There we are again at Hainburg, there we are again with nuclear power, we have arrived in the 1970s, in the 1980s. May I remind your colleagues of the following: In the Federal Republic of Germany you were in the government and have known you for the exit from nuclear power! – What has become of it? More nuclear power than in the Federal Republic of Germany is not used anywhere! That's the truth! [[Abg. Oillinger:... Merkel, we were not responsible for them!]] Mr Kogler – where is he?; now he's outside – has said: Yes, we confess to hydropower! – Very pleased, if you now confess to hydropower! But this thinking has become more potent, namely, to the small regions: I can call you many small power plants in the field of hydropower, which were prevented by you, but not only small-scale power plants, but also tourist projects, in which a supply of biogas or biomass was to take place, against which the greens opposed and which they prevented, only because the access road to this project passes by an Augebiet. – This is the true attitude: Avoid and have no answer to the future, and against that we defend ourselves! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we do not say that there are no further objectives, including European objectives which we have to pursue: If you know that 40 percent of energy has to be imported in the European area, we must confess that, in view of the 2006 crisis, something has to be changed in view of the current crisis. And this “change” can only mean investing more in energy efficiency, and this can only mean pursuing the objectives of renewable energy, namely 20 percent of renewable energy production – we in Austria have a higher goal, we have the goal to create 34 percent – and of course it is that we have to do something in the area of action in order to cope with a crisis. The first measure we have set was the Energy Steering Act, and the second measure is that we are doing something here to control the energy in the future, namely through a large-scale customer control in crisis management. – There are already approaches here, and the E-Control has shown with the model up to a manual to be prepared for the crisis case that we are on the right track. On the right path, however, we are not only at federal level, we are also at country level, and I am of course allowed to present Lower Austria as an example here. A colleague of mine has already addressed the scrapping premium for old boilers today – now we are at the car scrapping premium and we are increasing towards the scrapping premium at the old boilers –: We know that the 400 000 households throughout Austria are involved and that we can thus take a proper measure in the environmental field, with which we can save energy and reduce CO2 emissions, which we have proved in Lower Austria – there is this action of the boiler exchange for ten years and we are promoting this measure by 30 percent. – That is, I believe, the right approach, which we should also pursue at the federal level! There are many areas: In the residential area, we have thermally renovated 12,000 housing units in Lower Austria in a single year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] CO2 savings: 13.5% in last year. We are now taking another €40 million to implement a measure, namely the thermal renovation of housing units and residences with a further 30 percent support as a direct grant, up to a maximum of €12 000. – So these are the measures taken, and they do so at the federal level! If we provide €100 million for thermal renovation and know that we can do a lot of things not 20 percent, but 50 percent energy saving, and on the other hand, in the field of geothermal, photovoltaic, hydropower, then we should take this path and not look towards the past, but together towards Europe, towards energy saving and towards cooperation. Then we will reach the goal and not just move in the negative range. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18678	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18700	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the beginning, there are two motions for resolutions tabled by my colleague, Mr Ing. Norbert Hofer has already received the content. The first application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request is: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Hofer, Themessl, Colleagues concerning the halving of VAT on energy from renewable domestic resources The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council a government template which has the content of halving VAT on all renewable resources from 20 percent to 10 percent at the present time.” Before I come to the real issue, one more word to one of my previous speakers, to Mr Widmann of the BZÖ, and his question why the liberals would not have supported the BZÖ's international legal proceedings. – To this end for the x-th time our answer: We have clearly received information from several legal experts that this is not legally possible. - Maybe you understand now. [[Call at BZÖ: Which legal expert was that?]] But now to you, Minister of State, and to the Federal Government. I am referring to point 19 of this question by the Greens, to whom you have actually replied unclearly. Under point 19 the Greens want to know from you until when you will present a new eco electricity law, and you have answered that the novel of the old eco electricity law, which was passed last year, has not yet been implemented and, if I have understood you correctly, as long as that has not happened, there is actually no need for action. First of all: The novels of the old eco-electric power law have made your “unique” ex-EU Commissioner Franz Fischler very sad. He liked it as much as he did in Parliament the Greens, the BZÖ and us, and that is why we rejected this amendment at the time. Secondly, I am surprised that you do not think about a new eco electricity law, because if I read the motion for a resolution tabled by the government parties in sub-areas, they would ask the Federal Government, among other things, to “forcify and promote the research, exploitation and production of renewable energy”. I remember that you returned from the EU Summit about a week ago, and you brought a glorious idea in your luggage: You have cut off the so-called scrapping premium for cars from your German colleagues. Now you can think of what you want – we don't think that's the yellow of the egg, that's what we tell you, and many others see it as I do – but if you already copy something from your German colleagues, which is not bad for yourself, because good ideas can be copied, then I wonder: Why did you not copy the “German Ecostrom Act”, i.e. the German Renewable Energy Act, which would really have a role to play in Europe and could, of course, do very much for the economic sector, especially for local and domestic economies? - You didn't do that! For weeks and months now we have been talking about the emerging economic crisis, recession, we are talking about energy, energy supply for Austria, energy security, and I honestly tell you that I do not trust you or your colleagues in government to really take action here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] - I'll tell you why. Firstly, we are dealing with economic issues, and as you all know, a majority or most of this government team does not come out of the economy, it comes from the protected area, as you can see. In principle, this is nothing bad, but when it comes to economic issues, I believe that it is rather an economic operator, who really is in the economy with both feet, who has also practised the economy himself and is not just dependent on one-slagers, who may then point to the wrong path. [[Abg. Riepl:... comes from the economy!]] I would also like to say a second point: There would, of course, be the possibility to make a bet of a lack of talent or perhaps a lack of competence through a lot of effort, but what you understand by effort, I will now show you that. This House was praised in this composition at the end of October of last year. The first Committee meeting of the Economic Committee – and the Economic Committee is responsible for all these issues which we have already discussed in several respects today, and energy falls into the area of the Economic Committee, Mr Steindl – I do not know where he is; he is the chairman of the Economic Committee – is saying and writing for 24. March on the prospect! That is to say, it will last almost five months in this government until the Economic and Social Committee is even consulted on these issues and perhaps wants to get some kind of incentive there. – I don’t know how you imagine that! Now we are talking about declining economic performance, recession, we have problems with the energy supply and we do not know when perhaps the next time the gas is turned off or diverted or whatever, and you do not think it is absolutely necessary to deal with the committee responsible in this House! You know, it's not just hard work, I'm telling you, but it's not responsible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is simply unresponsible not to consider it necessary in times like those in which there is no day when this economic crisis is not being addressed in the media, to deal with the committee responsible in this House! I say to you: If you don't think lightning like that, I see black for this government! – Unfortunately, the reds will probably also be colored black; You already have this color as a party color. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18786	Both applications submitted are sufficiently supported and are therefore negotiated. The applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18887	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18923	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you very much for the very nice New Year's wishes received from your Presidency. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] – These have surprised us as well as delighted us. Of course, we welcome the current situation on the energy market; we have already discussed it this morning. The credibility of some green demands has also been discussed, not to be seen so closely, because if we all agree that fossil fuels and energy sources cannot be completely replaced at the foreseeable time, then of course the Greens, if they want to go to Parliament or elsewhere to interesting events, also have to go by car from time to time, and the car is unfortunately driving... – Yes, also by bicycle. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Or by bike!]] This is particularly dangerous if the rulers believe that they also have to ride the bike with snow and ice, thus endangering people. - But that's something else again. In any event, I think it is sensible, right and important that we do everything we can to promote renewable energy sources and also to strengthen awareness of them. Nevertheless, one must also admit that in the foreseeable future fossil fuels will be an irreplaceable part of the overall energy supply. The gas crisis has once again made it clear to us that it is necessary, both nationally and internationally, to provide for such problems, because it must also be clear that this has not been the last time that various producer countries with their capacity to make policies with this power. Austria, which has also been said, has survived the crisis quite well by the stockpiling, with the crisis also relatively visible, because we have received information that about the West of Austria is not at all dependent on the gas network connected with Russia, and that there are also appropriate alternative purchases. Nevertheless – I repeat here my call for the morning – it should be ensured at EU level that all Member States of the European Union will acquire the same stocks in the area of necessary and possible stocks so that the European Union and therefore we are not extortionable if Russia or other producer countries believe that they will cease these deliveries for a few days or weeks because they pursue their own goals. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] An interesting question, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs – we have just referred to it in the National Security Council, but I have not received an answer – is, of course, the pricing of these raw materials and energy sources, especially in the gas sector. In the autumn of last year, we had the problem that energy supplies were above all an exorbitant increase in gas prices, including electricity prices, but in particular gas prices. There have been increases of 20, 30, 40 percent, and the price of crude oil has been argued against and the gas prices are strangely linked with a certain delay in time. There was a small optical problem, because precisely when the energy suppliers increased the prices of gas, oil prices fell back to almost groundless. Nevertheless, these increases have been made especially in a time difficult for the population. Now, and this is already interesting, the households receive notes from the energy suppliers in which they spread the happy customers that gas and energy prices are reduced again due to the lower oil prices. Only these are not reduced by 20, 30, 40 percent, which the increase made, but by 10, 15, at most 20 percent. That's what I'm asking myself, Minister of Economic Affairs: Is there not a way to control the fact that, if increases are already passed on, price reductions 1 : 1 must be passed on? If it is true that the gas price is linked to the oil price, then now – as we have the lowest oil price for a few years now – it would have to be the lowest gas and electricity price that has been charged for several years. But if I look at that, I have to say that it remains a decent basket money for the energy suppliers. That's the second point. One is the energy and security of supply, but the other is pricing. That's where we expect from you, from the relevant regulators information and investigation. In this sense, we will also put in a corresponding parliamentary question whether there has really been a transfer of price reductions to the population. This is precisely where purchasing power is falling and we have to see that the population has as much money as possible to strengthen purchasing power, of particular importance. Minister of Economic Affairs, we hope that we will get the relevant information.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18972	Mrs Bayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e18993	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to me to stress that we only have a credible coherent anti-atomic Policy can be pursued if we manage to make a policy that will significantly increase the share of renewable energy. Then we would no longer be forced to import nuclear power from EU countries and would be a little more credible. For me, however, a coherent anti-atomic policy is a much wider mix. It is also about forging, the further development of international alliances of the countries that, unfortunately, are becoming less and less involved in nuclear energy. These alliances must clarify that this technology is not certain in the case of Weitem; that many technical issues are not clarified; that it is by no means climate neutral, as the atomic lobby often claims; that it is very expensive; that the costs are distorted and that this technology is by no means sustainable. The question has often been raised as to how to deal with the EURATOM Treaty. Of course, the demand for an exit is a very plausible and very simple seeming, only it is real and legal not to solve the problem so easily. What I am really afraid of is to say that we are getting out of the EURATOM Treaty, but we are still paying our EU contributions. It is not true that the contributions would be segmented into different small pieces of cake; so we could say that we no longer pay the piece of cake that goes towards EURATOM. Even if we were to withdraw from the EURATOM Treaty, we would continue to pay this contribution, but would rob ourselves of all co-determination rights. I don't think that makes sense in real political terms. I think it is more sensible – it is not very likely, but nevertheless necessary to continue to carry out it – to innovation this contract in such a way that of the money in it, of the know-how, of the work in it, more money is used for security, scrapping and retrofitting to more modern technologies, and no more money for the nuclear current to be so eeriely preferred in the future, and that no more is being done as if it were so cheap – which it is not at all. A third and very important requirement in the area of a coherent anti-atomic policy is that we, the Republic of Austria, as well as as as many affected, individual citizens, especially in the east of Austria, exercise our participation rights, for example in the forthcoming environmental impact assessment for the expansion of the Mochovce AKW, which is only 160 kilometres from Vienna. I hope that against the expansion of this nuclear power station, we can close a broad alliance with many citizens, because, due to its safety standards, due to its age, its technology and, above all, its components, which have been stored in the basement for 20 years, this nuclear power station is a real security threat. As regards Mr Androsch, as he was quoted, I think we have freedom of expression. Every citizen, every pensioner, every entrepreneur, everyone should, of course, be able to express his or her personal opinion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] – Not in nuclear questions, not in energy questions, fortunately. I must admit, however, that I really appreciate some kind of nuclear power plants. It is a nuclear power plant with a technically truly ingenious concept, with a raw material that is actually almost unlimited. It is also a really relatively safe nuclear power plant, the largest we have, namely the sun. It has the corresponding distance to the Earth, which can be used well. This nuclear power plant sun, using this nuclear power for us on earth, is, of course, a very good way to expand it. Just like AKWs, there are some other paths of error where I think we should not start here. From my point of view, for example, carbon capture and storage is one that I do not consider to be a sustainable approach to energy supply or a sustainable approach to climate problems. I also think the use of non-sustainable agricultural fuels is a mistake because their production makes food more expensive and leads to crises – see Mexico. In addition, these fuels have extremely poor eco-balance sheets and a much larger CO2 emissions than normal fossil produced fuels, see palm oil from Indonesian peat floors. Furthermore, they reduce the richness of species on slabs, because more and more is being passed on – see USA – to also use genetic engineering for this. In any case, it makes sense to research in this field towards the second and third generations – that is when waste and waste are sprayed. But the fundamental question is how we manage to achieve a paradigm change in mobility, the time of the Ottomotor – a technology that is over 120 years old based on very ineffective combustion – to finally leave us behind and come to new drive technologies, new engines. I think that there is too little voluntary commitment from the automotive industry to weitem than that one could really make big jumps there. We need an Austrian and also a European strict legal framework to force automotive companies and research to finally implement something that, I mean, has been in the drawer for a long time. I think there are a lot of good measures that we will implement in these next five years. It is clear that there is still a lot to do that great challenges still lie ahead of us, that we still need to invest very, very much money in sustainable energy supply. But investments in sustainable energy supply are definitely very good investments in the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e19084	No one is reporting on this. We come to the votes. Firstly, the vote on the motion for a resolution by the honourable Members will be taken. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, on an expansion stop for new gas power plants and new gas lines, in particular the Tauerngas line. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Brunner, colleagues on the submission of an energy plan for Austria by 2030. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bartenstein, Mr Katzian, and others on an overall energy policy strategy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 4.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution by the new farmers, colleagues and others on Austria's exit from the EURATOM Treaty. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is the minority and rejected. We now come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. Widmann, colleagues on Master Plan for an Energy-Autarchical Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is the minority and rejected. We now come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. Brunner, colleagues on the Anti-Atom package. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is the minority and rejected. We now come to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Themessl, colleagues, on the equipment of new apartments and houses with fireplaces. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is the minority and rejected. We now come to the motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is the minority and rejected. [[17:50:06]] Short debate on the response to the question 231/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e19233	We are now coming to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 231. The answer to the question is distributed. A reading by the writer is not sufficient. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, according to the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes; only the first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Members of the government should not exceed the duration of 10 minutes. The applicant, Mr Vilimsky, begins the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e19263	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to say, based on the events of the past few weeks, that I have the impression that at least two thirds of this House are politically blind on one eye. One has the impression that a political blindfold on the left hand side is blinding your eye. Who knows, maybe it's a side effect of the facial scanners that are mounted at every entrance to this house, that you've lost sight of the essentials politically on the left eye?- Oh, my God! They are persistent, and although we have had a debate in recent weeks about the fact that in Austria there is a system of left-wing radicalism, left-wing extremism and also left-wing terrorism. Whenever a debate is started on this, you are now trying, with the help of the EIA, to strangle this debate in their approach. We have today agreed to this question, because it is not based on any political assessment, but on the actual situation, that there is a) left-wing violence in Austria, and b) left-wing violence is also exercised in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At our final rally to the National Council election, Randalians from socialist youth, from the Socialist Left Party, from Green-Sympathists, from Marxists – Peter Pilz was in his youth with the revolutionary Marxists, now it is the normal Marxists who were there –, 300 in total, who have marginalized the Krawall who have caused harm to the people. There have been numerous injuries, including six executive officers. I would like to thank the police for keeping us from these hordes; they deserve an order for this achievement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore remember this so well, because I spoke there and saw from above how bottles flowed from the left activists into the crowd, how smoke bombs flown and how in advance it was called for the “black block” to come to Austria. You certainly know the “Black Block. ” These are those who have been disguised in Heiligendamm at the G8 summit, disguised and left for the police with batons. In addition, when we held a peaceful event in Cologne, they also brought the city into the police emergency, where the police were disarmed by these left radicalists. And with your spiritual background, you have never even made a slightest distance from it! But you obviously don't care either. I even claim that the system of left-wing extremism has been socialized in your ranks. It is no wonder that Mr Oellinger has just begun the attack against Mr Third President Graf, because of his youth, where many things have been documented, with the ÖVP standing on the side of the resistance and morals, when her colleagues Kiss, Kukacka and Khol tried courageously to stand to the truth. Today, however, you make the ÖVP the second for Mr. Ollinger, knowing that Mr. Ollinger, as the closest employee, employs Mr. Lukas Wurz, who was the founder of the "TATblatt". – Unharmed You don't! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The “TATblatt” was classified as a left-wing extremist by the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection! I can now read to you what confession letters have been published in it: We are not afraid to fight – listen! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: And the Jungnazi with you?- Oh, my God!]] There are no young people, but there are the left-wing extremists! I quote: Unfortunately, the fire that broke out in the early morning hours in the Kursalon Hübner is our fault. Inaccurate handling with time-ignitioners and gasoline unsuspectingly created a situation completely out of control for us. In addition, we were already asleep deep and firm at the fireout time. - Quote. Oh, that's it! – The “TATblatt” no longer exists since 2005, but these people, partly employees in your ranks, have been politically socialized by you, the Greens! It's going on. Next statement of attack: We are responsible for the fire attack on the Mercedes subsidiary in Vienna – citations, and so on and so on. I have never heard of you just the quietest word of removal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Prolonged calls to the Greens.]] Do you know what the disillusionment is about the ÖVP? – You are a party that postulates itself to be a conservative party, and yet now you cry with the left wolves! It is you who are seizing Mr Öllinger in this matter; It is you who, together with a Mr. Faymann, have made him the Federal Chancellor. Don't wonder why there are no other majorities in this House! But I also have Mr Faymann's name – that's what you're thinking! – there is never any distance in this respect. A letter from the “Wiener Zeitung” reads: I was a witness myself in 1983, when then President of the SJ Faymann started a het campaign against the Pope's visit. In a ‘anti-papst festival’ this self ‘papst out’ T-shirts has distributed and ‘Church exit advice’ has established. - Quote. “Bravo”, ÖVP, these people take you to the top of the lead! Why, between the Red and the Greens, such a love affair is clear from history. This is all wonderful to read about how Mr. Klubobmann Cap spoke lovingly about Mr. Ollinger at earlier times: The Oeli – he said so, so obviously there was a close relationship – made a left-wing policy in Salzburg, which Kreisky did not agree with. – Quotes; so Joseph Cap remembers. That was, I think, just at the time when you – we have already talked about it today – carried the Palestinian scarf and on the side of the suit, I say, against the Americans. Today, the principle of change applies to you. They've changed. They're part of the system. And where injustice is still, I hear nothing from you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's not the first time!]] But if we're already at removal care, I'll give you the best thing I'd expect to do, where I'd expect a removal rebellion! [[The speaker holds a photocopy in his hand and quotes from it]] We can be different, too. - Quote. Here you can see a burning tire on a yellow body, and I ask you: Is this in the “TATblatt” that there has been no longer been since 2005? Is that in the Green Club? - You're sorry, you don't have that. – But that is on the side of socialist youth, and that was not a year ago, but today. Anyone who wants can order the burning tires at your party youth! And do you really want to remind anyone that he's supposed to distance himself?- Oh, my God! – This is a staircase of the story that you are holding! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Wherever left-wing extremism, left-wing radicalism manifests, I have the impression that two thirds of this House are acting according to the principle of deaf, mute and blindness and do not want to see it. But if a few young boys with 15 years of age have ordered the inscriptions “comradeship is more than just a word” or“ I smell the left ones, ” they should be thrown out somewhere. This calls for Neugebauer, the highest representative of the trade union, and is behind Mr Ollinger in this matter. These people are to be fired out of the House, but if in your ranks, where political extremism has socialized, there are founding officers of terrorist postiles who have been qualified by the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection as far-left, then don't say anything! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I know you like it, that you're at the top of someone who's making a good adjustment to the rest behind it. First, it was Mr Van der Bellen, who acted as a local, quite bourgeois President, now you have changed to the Haute-Couture Group of Mrs Glawischnig. But if you look behind these scenes, if you look into your club, into your party, into the Vienna district organizations, then you're really very happy and have a lotto six if you don't find a former communist or Marxist. And you, as you are, have concerns about democracy! – Yes, the Greens who want to disband Parliament, and so on. [[Abg. Street: And the Green Youth who wants to disband Parliament!]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a situation in which everyone may go in, his political conscience, his attitude and his morality may put to the test whether he is on the right path, on the right path, when it comes to defending democracy with open eyes in both directions. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Very weak! Very embarrassing!]] – Come on You're going out there, you're going out there in the back rows. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] What do you say? You're going to this body where you set the tires on fire? [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Very weak!]] – That’s it: an unculture! And I ask the President of the National Council of the SPÖ, from the Second President to which they have not yet done so, and that is disgraceful! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] It also takes you any credibility if you warn distances in any other direction. Distanceing and research of conscience should be done in your own direction, as it would be good. [[Abg. Strache: President Prammer has no problem with this body!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] I would like to hear a distance from the “TATblatt” and all the left-wing violence, Mr. Ollinger, today – and from your staff. You owe that to the present minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e19478	Mrs Fekter is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e19500	The representatives of the National Council of Klubobmann Strache, Vilimsky and other Members of the European Parliament took part on 20 July. In November, under the 207/J number, a written parliamentary question concerning left-wing extremism against electoral campaign was sent to me and today calls for this debate on the response to the question. But since Mr Vilimsky did not say a word at all about the specific questions and my answers to them, I would simply like to express the facts behind this question. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's enough!]] [[Further call at the BZÖ: Fit it!]] I assume that those who requested this today were satisfied with the answers, because I did not hear a question about myself or criticism. [[It was in favour of ÖVP, BZÖ and Greens, as well as of representatives of SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: For the protocol: special applause!]] I would like to mention the course of the event here, because it shows a behaviour which I felt was grossly undemocratic, so that I do not want to abstain from this to the House. ==References== September 2009 was a final event of the Freedom Party to vote, namely the election event. [[Abg. Oils: There is no such thing as that, 2009!]] The main speaker was Heinz-Christian Strache. The event was duly registered, and the main program, the speech – which was at around 5 p.m. – was more than 3,000 participants at the event. Already at the beginning of Mr. Strache's speech there were several disturbances by opponents of the political party or by persons who wanted to disturb this event. In particular from the directly adjacent pedestrian zone, but also from the Wielandgasse area, sturgeon to the event area came again and again. The police were forward-looking with relatively massive local forces, more than twice as many as at other election events, and could keep the situation quiet. At 5.30 p.m., however, a massive attempt was suddenly made by other additional sympathizers of the disruptors – at the end of the event they were then around 50 to 70 people. Due to the rapid intervention of the police and by additionally ordered reinforcement, including the WEGA, the situation could be calmed down for the time being. A little later, the interference caused a massive use of pyrotechnics, banging bodies, and it produced strong smoke. [[Abg. Strache: Also with iron rods!]] In addition, the disruptors now tried massively to push towards the speaker stage. [[Abg. Strache: Eisenstangerln versus police officers!]] In this drive towards the speaker stage, police were also attacked and thrown with objects. There were massive damage to the peat-gitters. But the police managed to push back the disturbances. Then three people were arrested, especially because three police officers had been injured. After this defense of the massive advance, a group of local demonstrators gathered again in the nearby area of the rally and also tried several times to get back to the event area, but this failed due to police intervention. At about 6 p.m., Mr. Klubobmann concluded his speech before about 3 500 participants. After that, the situation was rekindled by the mutual provocations of the various groups, so that there was a real discussion in the area of the booths of the Viktor Adler market at the Erlachgasse. The most massive resistance was given to the police sent to calm the situation. Other police officers were injured and then a person was arrested. But that's not enough. After the end of the election event, 50 to 70 people gathered and began to march toward the police commission's favourites, apparently in the intention to release the prisoners who had been taken there. Before the police commission arrived, they also scanned appropriate spokespersons. The police commission was secured by increased police forces, and the people were finally scattered. At about 8 p.m., the Commissioner again had a normal situation. I believe that such an event does not give evidence of democratic maturity. We're trying to prevent this in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e19614	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes each. Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e19638	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, we have heard a lot about this issue today. Mr Vilimsky was very impulsive and spoke theatrical here. Most of his speech, however, was devoted to defending his President, the Third President of the National Council. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Burning tires!]] In fact, he did not address the questions raised by his party at all. What facts do we find? What information does a real background have? [[Abg. Weinzinger: The minister just told her!]] End of September 2008 – 22.9., 26.9. and 27.9. – several events relating to the National Council elections were held at the Viktor Adler Square. The Minister has already made a very detailed statement. [[Abg. Strache: Very correct!]] On Monday, 22 September, a BZÖ event was held, where a total of 43 staff members with staff costs of approximately €3 300 were used. [[Abg. Strache: With 20 visitors this is clear!]] On Friday, the 26th September, at the FPÖ event, a total of 170 officials were assigned, with a total staff cost of approximately €33 700. Saturday, 27.9. – as it is still being discussed whether this was just a SPÖ event, whether or not the FPÖ event was also monitored – a total of 48 officials with a total staff cost of approximately €9 300 were used. [[Abg. That was FPÖ and SPÖ!]] I would like to say quite clearly: The Minister of Foreign Affairs held a meeting on 21 January. In November 2008, an answer to a question concerning these events was made. And it has also been clearly stated that no cost replacement was required, since no cost replacement is required in the case of political parties. – It is quite clear that the implementation of political parties’ events must be ensured. It is very important that these election events be secured, including – and I have to say so very clearly – if there are different security benefits and higher payments. [[Abg. Weinzinger: What do you want to say?]] ==References== In November 2008, the FPÖ sent a request to the Minister of the Interior and it was informed that several executives had been injured, and a total of twelve questions were asked. ==References====External links== In January 2009, the reply was carried out and transmitted. This is a clear indication, on 26 May. September 170 officials were planned – 170 are very many – because a second group has crystallized, consisting of about 300 people. [[Abg. Lausch: What does he want to tell us?]] More staff were provided with caution. I'd like to stay here. Six officers were injured. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Who?]] [[Abg. Strache: Who hurt them?]] – That is very unfortunate. I wish the injured officers all the best for their recovery. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the end of the day I share with... [[Abg. Street: From the organizers of the Green Youth and the disguised!]] At the procedure: At the beginning of the disguise of the demonstrators, forces were pulled together, against disguised ones were taken – taking into account proportionality. [[Call the FPÖ:College, that doesn't interest anyone!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The necessary measures were proportionate. And here we should thank the police, the police officers who have spoken for our democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] I can't believe it was about 50 to 70 disguised people. [[Abg. Neubauer: What did you do about it?]] Five ads were refunded on the basis of criminal regulations, StGB. These advertisements shall be submitted to the Court of First Instance for a legal assessment. But I would also like to say quite clearly here that a lot is being done for the police. Especially in the government programme, security is a central issue. It also provides for the training of 1 000 police officers each year, so that a total of 1 000 officers will be available in the five years of government. Better equipment is provided, and – another point; it is still under discussion today – the Passgesetz is being adapted. This is also an important contribution to greater security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e19852	Next, Mrs Tamandel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e19873	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the security guard officials most warmly for being on the spot at such events as the FPÖ not only organised during election periods or mainly during election periods, in order to protect the present people, including the politicians present. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But if you listen to this and you also know what we were able to read about it in the newspapers about it, which message Mr. Strache sent out from the speaker's desk to these 3,000 or 3,500 people – he took a massive attack against Muslims and against mosques – you have to say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] [[call to the FPÖ]] Whoever sows hatred must not be surprised that he reaps hatred, Mr. Strache! [[Abg. That's a fool! That's a mess!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Do you want to...? What does that mean?]] Mr. Strache, I did yesterday... – No, not at all! [[Abg. Strache: Do you want all to be liquidated?]] [[Abg. Strache: What kind of expression is that?]] I've got some liquidation... [[Abg. That's great!]] Do you want the Muslims to be liquidated because you're putting that on me? [[Abg. Strache: Once you have to question your democratic attitude! What kind of undemocratic attitude do you have? Once you have to have your democratic attitude...!]] I saw the report yesterday, and I have known for a long time that you, Mr. Strache, want to become mayor of Vienna. And now I'm asking you: How do you imagine if you, as a mayor in Vienna, constantly waged and wanted to bet against foreigners... – Mr President. [[Abg. Strache: Austrofascism is obviously your mind!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Strache: You have an austrofascist attitude, which you express here!]] [[Call:This is immense]] [[Further ongoing calls.]] I would like to make it clear, Mr Strache, that the ÖVP completely distances itself from both left and right-wing extremism, that we want nothing to do with it, and that we are the only ones who really distance themselves from it. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and Greens]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Return to yesterday’s “Report”: Mr Strache said yesterday that Foreigners have nothing to do with it, but Mr. Häupl is to blame for everything he is doing in Vienna – so he is – to the foreigners and the foreigners of the second, third generation and so on. I don't think you can make yourself and say: Please, protect us from left-wing extremism!, if you are constantly advocating right-wing extremism in your own ranks and are always right-wing at these events. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: And that justify violence?]] This does not justify violence at all, but you cannot demand that you distance yourself from left-wing extremism if you have never distanced yourself from right-wing extremism. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Why do you say it then?]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We do this all the time!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: You also asked us to do it! Did you ask us?]] I believe that it is not all right for us – the Minister of the Interior has answered this – if we MEPs as representatives of the people ask a question to a minister and then answer it objectively, we do not even find it worth the effort, as Mr Vilimsky has just answered this question when a short debate is called for. You make yourself here, polemize, polarize – and then you wonder when any disputes arise. [[Abg. May. Stefan: That must not be true! There come violent perpetrators – and we polarize!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Mr. Strache goes out immediately, and Mr. Graf, who does not hold back from right-wing extremism and does not distance himself from it, does not need to demand that all be distanced from left-wing extremism. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's not true at all!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] We distance ourselves clearly and decisively. I'd like to hold on to one thing: Should what will certainly never happen, Mr. Strache tend towards the mayor of Vienna, then one can lock Vienna, because then there will be no longer a thousand police officers to protect all people around a Viktor Adler market or around other large places of assembly, because one must also confess to democracy, freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What if you're elected?- Oh, my God!]] There you simply have to take back in your own action and your own action accordingly. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Of course, if it doesn't fit the demonstrator, you have to say something else! This is the next argument: If a violent man comes, he made a mistake!]] If Mr. Stache does not do this, he cannot make politics either, but then he cannot ask him to become mayor of Vienna – then we will see how he then masters the situation with the foreigners or with the Muslims. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At any rate, I would like to thank the police once again, because it is certainly difficult to deal with extremism and other extremism and to ensure security. But please take your own nose and do not always ask for removal!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e20199	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A nice new year!]] [[Call the SPÖ: That was a brilliant speech!]] I believe that in one we agree: that this is a very sensitive matter, that there are emotions going up there. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: But you say that to your colleague!]] I therefore ask all parties involved, also in the sense of mutual understanding and understanding, to take particular note of the choice of words in each case. Next item is the report by Mr Kickl. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Mr President! Mr President, on the Rules of Procedure.]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e20271	Mr President, I do not know if you have heard Mr Strache's call to speak. He has accused her “austrofascist attitude, ” and we demand a call for order for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e20305	Ladies and gentlemen, I will look at the Minutes and then decide. Mr Kickl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e20330	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Well, the relationship of the ÖVP to its own party history is quite something that is questionable. There are enough problems when it comes to dealing honestly and openly with your own history in terms of dealing with the past. There's enough trouble! [[Abg. Wöginger: That's where you think!]] The second is the present. And that's where the lady who's been echoing about the style of FPÖ ends up in Simmering at 8 percent. I'll tell you: The trend will be declining, and you will be in simmering below 5 percent. The mayor will be in the city hall Heinz-Christian Stachehiten in Vienna! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One, ladies and gentlemen, shows the debate and also shows all the developments of the last few days, in recent weeks quite clearly: that extremism is left in Austria. And if you say "left," then it means that it is especially green. And it would have been a real political miracle today at this first session in the new year, if at least one in this green club, as he is sitting here, in view of this unworthy theater, which has been listed for weeks around two unspoiled young people, where in an incredible way with active support from the left media nothing other than human hatred, if at least one of you would press the conscience there and if he would once burst the collar and one could say he was hanging out to the neck. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun]] [[Abg. Oils: (on p. There's the problem!]] You're not so far inside here. But in the meantime, Mr Ollinger – you will be glad to hear that, because then you can call out the inner-party emergency – call yes Your officials, who used to order something at this ach so dubiousen publishing house, already contact us and say: [[Abg. Street: Green municipal councils, for example!]] Well, well, we're going to confront Mr. Ollinger with the fact that we've made orders like this, too, because we're going to have a terrible nerve, what the oillinger's doing there, just to save himself from it internally. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Green municipal councils who have ordered this publisher!]] I mean, I do not know, Mr Oellinger, whether you will find the time between your efforts to get out and listen to the people and how the people think about it. If you were to listen to this, you would hear that people are already wondering if this is the deeper and the real meaning of your political mandate in this House, rather than doing anything else than building up a “stasi new”. That's what you establish from here. And people don't understand that. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] It is also more and more Austrians who claim that, although you are talking about freedom of expression, you only understand that everyone may have the opinion you would like to express. That is what you understand by freedom of expression, and nothing else! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the theatre that Mr Oellinger has been leading for a few weeks in alleged concern for democracy and the rule of law, or I do not know why, is in fact no longer a source of shame. You, colleague Ollinger, are one who belongs to the “Sham Saint ” department! That's your real place! And the predicate that you are really a grandmaster of political hypocrisy, no one can take it from you, even from within. And that's a special achievement, because your party is not really poor for personalities who have nothing else to do, but for people who don't fit into the stuff, to pursue and to pursue politics. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is simply in collaboration with so many journalists who are known to make politics themselves rather than to report politics – and I am speaking to the ORF in particular – and who in this case have taken on a completely different role of fellow officials, with white precepts, with twists, with half-truths, with falsifications, as if it were all the most normal in the world. [[Abg. Strache: Just like Van der Bellen today, with falsely claimed representations!]] This is your political style, Mr Oillinger. And there you have your Strobl, who used to be your party manager, sitting up in the ORF, and there is now a convenience service in the form of a reporting, which is basically incomparable and for which you can actually find no more than “human hatred”. I do not know, Mr Oellinger, how you feel if you – for basically you do nothing else – publicly declare people free of birds and therefore, of course, prepare the ground for a bunch of spiders and fanatics from your corner, who may come up with funny ideas, because they have been motivated by you, but then one of the two that you have obviously been out there on is just being beaten down. [[Abg. Oils: (on p. There's the problem!]] – With this responsibility you should deal with once, as well as with the responsibility that then your friends and your activists at the university depend on these people and say: If he shows up at the university, he'll be shot out! – To carry for it You are a co-responsible, Mr Ollinger, by the way you act. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is quite the spirit, which is actually an unspirit, with the Greens. And I'll tell you one thing: I can only remind you that it was not the Freedom Party, but the Green Party, who brought a Mr. Balluch, who is a well-known extremist, out of the heel’s list of top candidates! [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Yeah, that's it! You took him out as a signal! – You should ask yourself what kind of signal this is if you make a person a candidate who thinks aloud about whether it would not be allowed to murk someone who is committing to the animals at once. That is the style of Mr Balluch. And there you would have to do enough in your own house and in your own club, and there you shouldn't commit yourself politically to any people who are unchalled.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e20509	Next, Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e20530	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! At first I can welcome the head of state of Carinthia Gerhard Dörfler in our midst. [[To the balcony:]] Dear Gerhard, welcome you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] – We have a good division of work: President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It's not a problem either. I am actually a little surprised at today's discussion, and above all about the reactions of the liberals. So, what is the fear of the high light of the FPÖ from the German Wallhalla now when a few peppers stand in front of the stage? [[Abg. Strache: Now comes the Gutmenschen speech of Mr. Grosz! – Six partially injured police officers are indifferent to Mr Grosz!]] Perhaps you should not ask the Minister of the Interior, but call Wotan; he will protect you at your future party events. [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Strache: Six partially injured police officers are indifferent to Mr. Grosz!]] Mr. Klubobmann Strache, it does not help if you roar at me with the usual 1,500 megahertz, with which you make capitals like Graz or Vienna uncertain. Also my microphone – to talk to a bowl – is a little louder today, so I can do it. [[Abg. Strache: Six severely injured police officers are indifferent to you!]] I think we have other problems in this country. [[Abg. Stache: A new joke maybe! A new joke from the head of state!]] I really believe that this Parliament has to deal with unemployment. I believe that if the Minister of the Interior is here today, Parliament would have to deal with crime in Austria, with the rise in crime, with a push-over centre, with an asylum centre in the south. I also believe that we have to deal with the concerns and concerns of small and medium-sized enterprises – and not with these disputes between the ideological parties Green and FPÖ. I would recommend to you the Court of Justice in the Parliament building: Go in, go into the circle, do psychotherapeutic exercises! There must be mentors in your ranks. That's better. But don't bother Parliament! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And by the way, one thing I say to the liberals, but also to the Greens: Her wife Winter from Graz, who is not here today because she will be presented tomorrow, Madame Justitia, has cost our rule of law €200 000. These were the costs of police guarding after you meant to give her a stupid gag for an election event that didn't actually bring us anything and that Graz just pulled into the trash. [[Abg. Neubauer: The Westenthaler has...!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: When the shark was protected, it was a matter of course! It was a matter of course!]] And to the Greens: As long as you regularly organize demonstrations with people like a woman named Aftenberger, with people like a woman Jahn house crews in Graz and in Vienna, you can also hold back quite a bit – because you both do not follow each other for nothing, you just separate ideology! With regard to how you are doing to bend right and cause the taxpayer's costs, you are very identical, and therefore I am also grateful that you are both sitting next to each other. This means that the violent block of this house is also localized. [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Strache: (in the direction of the Greens and the BZÖ) There both sit next to each other!]] Mr. Obama bin Cap – I also recommend that you make your role as an American President-Double fairer, perhaps take a different toupet, with a different hair quality; but be it! – I don’t know, Mr Plessl, has given a speech here earlier, where I do not know what he has actually said. Was that perhaps the defence and explanation speech that we're holding a thing of a question meeting with your coalition partner today? – Mrs Burgstaller, Mr Voves! Is it really not for you to think that a whole group is moving out of this house, roaring around with 1,500 decibels of Austrofascism and other things, but is actually the new and secret coalition partner of your wife Burgstaller and your Mr. Voves? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What “Truly Request”?]] Isn't it really going to turn your stomach around? Does it not turn the stomach around by Mrs Silhavy and these Members, herbs and as they are called, who have warned against the liberals during the election campaign and who have participated in demonstrations? – To this end, you and your colleague, Mr Plessl, could have made a statement today. Otherwise, I think the House was bothered enough with this subject. Let us again dedicate ourselves to the problems of the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e20701	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Dr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e20722	Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Hornek: The mushroom shows the first body!]] After the statements by FPÖ and BZÖ, I can only say positively that there is at least no opportunity for Mr Dörfler to tell a joke here in plenary. At least that will save us today. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: But you are a good speaker, Mr. Pilz!]] Secondly, to the brief statement by the Minister of the Interior. She showed one thing: The Austrian executive is at any time able to cope with the disturbance of election rallies and to protect the right of assembly in Austria in a sustainable and effective manner. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Protect us from the greens, fortunately!]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: Protect from you!]] Thirdly, The Minister for the Interior also pointed out that there had been mutual provocations on the said day, which had ended in violence. [[Call the FPÖ:Who? From whom?]] [[Abg. Stache: One-sided violence!]] What's not surprising: Those who frustrate people must not be surprised when in mutual provocations they need to use the safety executive. [[Abg. Strache: If our political opinion does not fit your mind, then violence is legitimate in you!]] By the way, the Carinthian police reported from the last weekend in Klagenfurt – and you can read it in the “Small Newspaper” – that, in a peaceful rally before the entrance to the free assembly, the police had to prevent aggressive freedom of room protection from taking place on rally participants. [[Vivid cheerfulness at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go! Now comes the invention again!]] - I can only tell you what the police report. [[Abg. Strache: Now comes the invention again! You're just saying that because you're protecting immunity!]] Next point: For the "TAT Sheet". Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you know that the “TATblatt” received a press promotion from the Federal Chancellery at the time. Do you know which political party in this House has agreed to press promotion? – The Freedom Party! [[Abg. May. Stefan: Yes, mistaken!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Twice the press promotion for the “TATblatt” agreed, as can be seen from the protocols of the Federal Chancellery. [[Abg. Strache: Until we get on it, what a leaf it is!]] [[Abg. Strache: Until we got on it, which is an extremist leaf!]] I do not want you to be solely responsible for the fact that the “TAT leaf” has been financed by taxpayers, but you have a joint responsibility, and you should take this co-responsibility seriously. [[Abg. May. Stefan: We take them seriously! We're deeply sorry!]] You are not prepared to think about how easily a verbally violent policy – and, Mr. Strache, you are currently by far the most verbally violent politicians in this Republic – leads to real violence, and you are probably the only one in this hall who does not know or does not present it. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Strache: This experience only has you! As far as violence is concerned, only you have the experience, Mr. Peter Pilz!]] We need to talk today about what such operations, such performances by you, Mr Strache, will cost taxpayers in this Republic in the future. [[Abg. Strache: Your green violent demonstrators are these! They cost the state money!]] The reasons that more and more security executives must occur in order to protect your election campaign events, which lie in your rhetoric, which lie in your politics and which lie in the violent way you abuse and incite people for your policies. [[Abg. Street: The Green Violents cost the State money!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: opera ball demonstrators!]] And one last thing: It should not be mentioned that the occasion for the whole debate has nothing to do with favorites, but everything has to do with Dr. Martin Graf. You said it quite openly: They do not want the debate on the political views and the employees of Dr. Graf to continue. [[Abg. Strache: With your lies we want to deal with each other!]] They want to distract. They want somewhere else. But that's not possible! As long as these employees are employed in the house, as long as there is a suspicion that the Austrian Parliament in the Bureau is not sure about right-wing radical propaganda as long as there is the possibility that this House is not politically re-activating, this debate will be held for so long. [[Call at the FPÖ: There the oillinger will already be in retirement!]] [[Abg. We're going to lead them! In these blasphemous precepts! We'll lead them!]] And one last thing: I would recommend the Minister of Justice to look at Mr Vilimsky's speech. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Just lock up the best, the vilimsky!]] That is because the question of Taser and the use in humans should be finally dealt with. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the FPÖ.]] I believe that Mr Vilimsky's speech has shown that the Taser is not an appropriate instrument for resocialisation...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21060	The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21075	... and therefore should not be approached in this respect too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21103	The short debate is closed. [[18:35:50]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21124	We are now returning to Europe. I take the negotiations on the second. Agenda item again. Mr Schopf is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21148	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to re-examine the issue that has been discussed and discussed today, which has been discussed and discussed today, with regard to energy policy, in particular the problem of nuclear energy. Looking at the last report of the Swiss Nuclear Forum, it is noted that, unfortunately, we now have more than 400 nuclear power plants in operation worldwide, but also – which is just as problematic – that now more than 30 nuclear power plants are planned or built. Many in politics, including many experts, believe that this production of energy would be the right thing, and it would be the right answer, above all, because of climate change and also because of the gas dispute between Russia and Ukraine. And one reads more and more often, especially in Europe, that nuclear power has a new future. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not say that on the part of social democracy. We believe that renewable energies have a future. We think it is more necessary than ever to produce energy from biomass, wind, sun. And I think there are many possibilities here not only in Austria, but also at European level, also in Slovakia, also in the Czech Republic, of course. Some previous speakers have referred to the topic of hydropower. I would also like to emphasise this very clearly: We also believe that the expansion of hydropower is the right response to climate change, including the right response to the gas dispute that we had. Of course, one has to grow environmentally friendly, but I think there are in the table shop of the most diverse companies in Austria. It is a very good project, and we should try to discuss these projects emotionally here within the framework of the relevant committees, so that companies will have the opportunity to implement these projects as well. I am also saying, as a trade unionist at this point, that because it is always meant, alternative energy production ultimately means that jobs are at risk: I think, and there are already enough studies on it, it is the opposite! The production of alternative energy sources means the creation of many new jobs: The construction of water power plants ultimately means the creation of many new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, now a few sentences on Bohunice, because the government in Slovakia has decided in recent weeks, due to the situation between Russia and Ukraine, that the reactor in Slovakia should be raised again: I would like to remind you that it was an essential condition and ultimately the subject of the treaty negotiations and that it was then also written down that Slovakia's accession to the European Union will only be realized if this reactor is shut down. It is therefore quite a problem if the same government has now decided to re-establish this unsafe reactor. Thanks to our Federal Government, thanks to our Federal Chancellor, but also the Minister of Economic Affairs, thanks to many anti-atom activists and activists, it has finally succeeded in taking this decision back from the Slovak Government, but – and I would like to remind you already – it is from the Slovak Government that this decision is being taken back for the time being – and I emphasize the word “first”. I think the right answer must be: Never again – never again! – may this nuclear power plant go into operation! I hope that we will not only agree on this in Austria, but I think it is necessary to try to support this initiative at European level too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21206	The next one is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21227	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The Secretary of State! High house! I would like to begin with a quote for the foreign policy debate, which reads as follows: “First, people were arrested who knew, then on their ad a huge amount. The devotees were used for acting. They were put in animal skins and had them broken by dogs, hit them on the cross, or lit them on, and had them burned as torches after the intrusion of darkness. ” What I have now quoted to you, ladies and gentlemen, is 2000 years old and comes from Tacitus, the well-known Roman historian, who then described the Christian persecutions that raged 200, 300 years among the famous emperors Nero, Diocletian and as they all called. We all believe that the story is, ladies and gentlemen. No, it is not God, unfortunately, because if we are allowed to give faith to the accounts, there are more Christian persecutions today than ever, all over the world. Figures speak of more than 2.5 million a year and more than 100,000 deaths killed annually in the course of these persecutions. Incredible, when you imagine that, but true. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we should also mention this fact, the reality, by name today in this foreign policy debate. We cannot say that we must not remain silent. And there are enough initiatives in Parliament – whether in the Federal Council, the National Council or in the individual committees – which point precisely to this issue. I would just like to remind you of a report from the Federal Council's Committee on Foreign Affairs: Recent reports on state, state-supported or state-tolerant violence against Christians come from over 30 countries, in particular North Korea, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Maldives, Indonesia, Cuba and Egypt. In recent months alone, Christian Solidarity International has reported numerous incidents, such as in Turkey, in the People's Republic of China, in Vietnam, in Pakistan, in Algeria, in India and so on. This is happening today, ladies and gentlemen! And I believe that, as a European Union, we also have the task of addressing these crimes; not always looking at the other crimes and other crimes, but also happening here every day, by mass crime. And I would ask and urge the acting persons, especially the government, to put their fingers in these wounds everywhere and to address these crimes. I think that's important. This is our culture, we owe it to people and fellow believers all over the world. I just wanted to bring this in here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since this is my “young speech” today as a Member of Parliament during the current legislative period, I will only end with a two-liner, and not with a four-liner. I would perhaps like to take a brief look at the government's profile: The chancellor is red, according to Proporz, but the head is black in it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21291	Next, Mr. Dr. Königshofer speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21313	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is good that we return to Europe's policy. I can tell you: In the Baltic region and in the southern Balkans, the most severe public uprisings have been raging since the collapse of real socialism 20 years ago. Day after day, violence takes place there, police clubs descend on the heads of Lithuanians, Latvians, Bulgarians and Greeks. This is the reality in today's Europe, and it could also be said that this is the citizens of today's EU or some EU countries. So, ladies and gentlemen, we did not introduce the EU! We've done something else. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Europe is a fortress. – That’s how it sounds from some media, and that’s what some foreign politicians say, whether they’re in Brussels, Austria or elsewhere. I tell you, reality looks quite different: Europe is not a fortress, Europe, despite the Schengen agreement, is dizzy like a Swiss cheese. Otherwise, it would not be possible for more than 16 million illegal opposition to exist within the borders of today's EU. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 100 000 illegals are currently living in Austria, including the well-known Zogaj family, who has immigrated illegally and now wants to have a right of residence and extortion. From my hometown of Innsbruck, I can tell you that hundreds of illegal North Africans have been driving their beings in the city for many years – Mr Worm will be able to confirm this to me. [[Abg. May. Worm: Hundreds are not right!]] These people are on the street day after day and offer our children and young people an intoxication. The new Minister of Justice could find a field of action to protect our children and our young people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these illegal opponents are immediately looking for asylum arrests. These asylum scams and sham asylants terrorize entire districts in Innsbruck. These are unsustainable conditions, which must no longer be maintained in Austria. I'm just telling you one example: ==References== February 2005 have been in a place near Innsbruck – they might know him: Wattens – five such asylum seekers, five North Africans, two Austrian women on the way to shift work, persecuted, robbed and raped. – That’s where you have to say: Now it's all over with fun! Ladies and gentlemen, another fact: These rules, even if they are criminally condemned or their asylum applications have been rejected, cannot be transferred to their countries of origin. Why can't you push them off? – Because no withdrawal agreements exist with these countries. And why do no withdrawal agreements exist? – Because the EU prevents this. As then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Plassnik stated in a reply that the EU had drawn up this matter of negotiations, and that is why bilateral negotiations with these countries of origin are no longer possible. The fact is: The EU now has competence, does nothing, and we cannot do anything. And this too is an unsustainable state that we will not accept! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following motion with other Members: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the interests of peoples and peoples, I would like you to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21386	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is being negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21445	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21466	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Remaining High House! Apprenticeships at home on the Internet! In the next 3 minutes, I will try to open up another subject which is very likely to have a European dimension, even beyond Europe, and which is actually a subject of international law, namely, human rights and, in particular, minority rights, which have not yet been mentioned and are too short. Klubobmann Bucher has already indicated today that the European Union has just noted last autumn, and that black on white in a report that Carinthia is exemplary in promoting minorities, especially in the field of cultural promotion, bilingual schools. [[OBJECTIVES]] In recent years, there has been a large number of initiatives under our unfortunately late father Jörg Haider since 1999/2000 in order to raise this funding by hundreds of percent. But again and again, just off the sides of social democracy, it is trying – and it is an open secret that Landeshauptreiter Rohr von der SPÖ works together with Mr. Chancellor Faymann – to flood Carinthia with other local panels after the country election in Carinthia. Social democracy is working to make all that is done in Carinthia for minorities. And it is fact, ladies and gentlemen, that in 1998 SPÖ and ÖVP, together with other political groups, ratified the framework agreement on the protection of national minorities here in the High House, a framework agreement which states that every citizen in a country, every citizen of a nation has a right to confess himself to his native language and to his people. And that must be the basis of a survey in Carinthia, which subsequently provides the numerical material for how many local panels are to be placed in Carinthia in the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that there will be no way by, as this is really a human right, a human right to mother tongue confession, a human right to popular confession. And if such a mother tongue survey will occur in Carinthia – and there will be no way of passing it – then there will be no more local boards in Carinthia, but less. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is what the BZÖ stands for, human rights stand for, a framework agreement on the protection of national minorities, which you have all signed here in 1998. This is to be held here. It should also be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, with his government college, whether before or after the parliamentary election in Carinthia, is not allowed to cross the Carinthia! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There will be no action by this Federal Government against the Carinthian interests, and there can and must not be any new regulation with regard to the local boards in Carinthia, which is created on the basis of a false numerical material. So far, ladies and gentlemen, and this is not only about Carinthia, but also the Burgenland, it is that all these regulations, which concern national minorities, are based on a numerical material from the censuses, in which only the language of use is asked. In this census – I ask everyone to take a close look at it – it is so: When people of the majority population use both German and another language, not German is counted as a language of use, but the other language that is cited – whether it is Slovenian, Croatian or something else. This means that there is a wrong numbering material and there are new ideas here – by Federal Chancellor Faymann, by SPÖ-Landeshauptmann-Responsor Rohr – in order to use better knowledge, simply for party-political purposes, to switch party-political small money, to cross the Carinthian population. Carinthia deserved something better. Carinthia has earned a proper policy that really looks at the citizens, looks at the interests of the citizens who take equal account of the majority population, and therefore the BZÖ will do all the reasonable, legal possibilities to counter the ideas and visions of the SPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21550	Next, Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21572	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Darmann, no one is talking about the population. Mr President, not even in Carinthia, neither Mr. Federal Chancellor nor Mr. Rohr. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] But I would now like to address the statements made by the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister. This is the subject of the debate here. We have already started in the morning, and I would like to address it now. This government, which was praised at the beginning of December, had no deadline for making foreign policy for Austria, for the Austrians and for representing Austria accordingly. It started immediately if I was allowed to say so. There were meetings in Brussels, in Paris, and – the Foreign Minister has already pointed out – it was important to encourage conflicts, to look at where we had the problems in Europe, to stop the financial crisis, or to take the necessary measures to achieve this. European economic packages have been tied up, national economic packages have been chained – we in Austria have already two chained – and Europe has also done the same. Here we have seen how important and necessary this Europe is, how important and necessary is also the common monetary union, where we Austrians are participating, and those countries that do not yet have the opportunity to participate in European monetary union have much greater difficulties in meeting all these problems. It has also been discussed, by the Foreign Minister, the Chancellor, that there have been important efforts to satisfy the conflict in the Middle East and continue to exist. During the Christmas days, the terrible news has reached us that weapons are being used again in the Gaza Strip. The European Union has responded here, and the ceasefire has now come to an end. We as Austria are now members of the UN Security Council, and here too we raise a strong, loud voice. It is very important that this area, this part of the earth, be satisfied. If there is now peace of arms, it is also necessary to ensure that there is a permanent ceasefire. A number of things have already been put on the agenda in the UN Security Council, which we would like to do or do from the Austrian Parliament, and that is to put forward a motion for a resolution to support these initiatives. I put forward this motion for a resolution and I hope that it will find a majority here in Parliament. In essence, this motion for a resolution includes the request that the Federal Government should continue to act bilaterally within the framework of the European Union and through active participation in the United Nations Security Council for a permanent ceasefire leading to the complete withdrawal of Israeli troops from Gaza and to the permanent termination of Hamas missile attacks and to support and contribute to rapid and targeted humanitarian aid. All this is only possible and can only work if the population in Gaza has adequate living conditions, if one also helps them humanitarianly, in terms of medical care. We must also take initiatives in this regard. In this sense, I hope that we will take appropriate measures in Austria and also in the other countries. This motion for a resolution is intended to contribute to a more peaceful world in a united Europe, because we need more Europe and no less.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21647	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported, is being dealt with and has, moreover, been distributed to the Members. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21764	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21789	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It was a very exciting and interesting discussion that followed the Austrian EU policy declaration. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has pointed out in his own way very clearly and impressively to me the importance of joint work in Europe. Due to his rich experience, Foreign Minister Spindelegger referred to the last events and clearly brought us to the fore that there are a lot of crisis areas that can only be dealt with jointly and with with by all. It is not a question of how one or the other Europe imagines itself, but rather of what one or the other or what the different groups and parties are doing for Europe, because one cannot expect more than one is willing to finally bring in. If the introduction of Barack Obama has been mentioned several times today, which impressed many people, then the essential thing about it was not only the fact that he is a black person – with blacks you can always make a good policy – but it was, as I believe, something quite different: [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Not necessarily in Austria!]] He was able to speak clearly to the citizens, to pick them up, to mobilise them, to concur them on a common matter. And I think that's very, very important. That will also be our task at the next time if we want to deal with all that is very important to us. Everyone needs to know and realize that Europe is not paradise with God – no! But I've said it several times: Europe is no longer hell or evil or bad. Europe is exactly where we live, where we work and where we bear responsibility. Anyone who does not want to focus on this should also look at the development of the last weeks and months: The financial crisis, unfortunately also affecting our continent, would certainly not have been achievable for the individual country. Europe's common sense has already been a strong bulwark here. Here the euro, which we have created ourselves, is a part of the Union, an essential factor in keeping it in half calculable sizes and dimensions. A truly difficult situation! If we are discussing today that we need to strengthen the economy, we also need to know that there will be major competition in the markets in the future. No matter whether America is becoming very strong or being stronger, we will meet with this America, with Asia, with Asian countries on the markets. It will be very important to see how we manage to position ourselves there as Europeans – not just to do business, no, that would be too little, but to secure work, so as to ensure social prosperity for us, also to ensure labour law conditions and much more in the future! If Minister Spindelegger today has spoken of Europe as the only continent that has a self-contained and accredited energy policy, then I think that this is an important message at a time when we need action in this area. Personally, I think it will be our task and will have to show all known or disturbing weaknesses. No question, it is only in this way that a good development can be ensured! In particular, we should also cooperate in good development, and it is important that we bring in our ideas, bring in our emotions and also show our willingness to do the highest possible for the Community – because only then can Europe offer what everyone at last expects to secure peace and to accompany us in a successful future if you want to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21829	Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the provisional Stenographical Protocol, I would like to give to Mr Deputies the floor for his interlocutory call, 'You have an austrofascist attitude which you express here!', made in the direction of Mr Tamandel. [[Call the BZÖ: That hurts!]] Next item is the report by Mr Neubauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21861	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to make the request of Mr Strache, Dr Hübner and other Members on the reorientation of Austrian EU policy, which has not yet been submitted but which has already been discussed. The Members who have been signed put forward the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to take all necessary measures to ensure that future changes to the Treaties on the European Union and to the functioning of the European Union, which affect Austrian interests, are decided by a referendum in Austria. This also applies to the ratification of an amended Treaty of Lisbon and, in particular, to possible accession of Turkey to the EU. I call for the support of this request. Back to TOP 2: Since the beginning of negotiations with Turkey, the European Union has now paid around €1.3 billion for Turkey's pre-accession to the European Union. When we look at the results of the last few years, we need to realize that the result is actually a very remarkable one, namely that there has really not been a lot of progress in the development in Turkey. This is also the case for important people of public life. Among other things, ex-national Council President Khol said in November of last year that Turkey was in no way ready for accession. In addition, the President of the European Parliament, Mr Pöttering, said yesterday that he advocated that Turkey should not be a candidate for accession to the EU. Instead, he proposes a privileged partnership for Turkey. That is to say, there have been remarkable changes in this development. ==References== In January 2009, Erdogan, the head of government of Turkey, drew attention to himself by means of a special remark, saying that one could reconsider the support of the "Nabucco pipeline" unless it is linked to accession to the European Union. In other words, we have a development which is not generally very positive. Regardless of the fact that we have provided massive financial assistance, there are still unresolved problems in Turkey. I would like to mention some of them here. There is still the Kurdish problem that would be solved. There is the still unresolved Cyprus question – and I have, of course, asked myself earlier how these countries could be allowed to enter the EU without having previously solved the Cyprus problem as a whole. But regardless of that, there is a massive tension between the authoritarian, laizist and secular republics in Turkey. There is still no granting of cultural rights for minorities. Thus, the liberation of religion from the state premeditation is a subject that probably seems hardly soluble overall. There are massive human rights violations in Turkey, which are known here. There is so far no excuse for the genocide on the Armenians, not yet. Irrespective of that, of course, there is no religious freedom either. I would have liked to see a more positive development in this area, because we could have imagined a partnership, but we cannot be satisfied with this development as a whole. We are eager to see how the Austrian parliamentary parties want to bring the voters closer to the EU election of this chapter. The positions here seem to change monthly – from the SPÖ, which promises contracts and which two months later at a government negotiation already sees quite different, to the Greens, where the youth of the Greens is demonstrating before Parliament against the decision of the Greens here. It will be crucial what Mr Lunacek will offer here at the EU election. I'm excited about it. Today's speech has not convinced me particularly. I am surprised that Mr Voggenhuber was able to go through such a speech at all. That's remarkable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: To the liberals he will certainly not change, as you do not need to make any hopes!]] However, I congratulate Mr Voggenhuber as a whole that he has managed to distance himself from the Greens so far that he has the nose full of this party. If a party is only concerned with human hatred, with beings and with Austria's abuse, I can also explain the attitude of Mr Voggenhuber. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would therefore also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Have courage and agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e21933	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are properly tabled and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22020	The next item is the speech by Mr Linder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22041	Dear debt than no money at all. The money I can consume today can't be less valuable tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. With these words Ronald Barazon tried to make fun of the crisis at the Austrian Hoteliers' Association Congress last week. I don't think we should make fun of this crisis. And I also believe that it is important for us to decide and decide on economic packages – on 24 and 28 February. October here at the Hohenhaus. Although there is still no credit for small businesses, for tourism companies, I have not yet given up the hope that the government will be able to help us tourism companies in good time, because we are to invest tourism companies in order to boost the economy. I am somewhat disappointed by the President that one is slowing down here in the reconstruction of the plenary room – because here one has to save suddenly. I think we should also show that the economy is being fuelled. 39 percent of Austrians still believe that the EU is a good thing – only more than 39 percent! I believe that this is up to the EU itself, because it is not able to spread issues in such a way that it feels that citizens are aware of them. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A good example would be from my point of view, from the point of view of tourism, if it were to be possible to reorganise the holiday arrangement and to make it so that the holidays would be really distributed for the citizens and we would not have peak times in tourism, but longer times with holiday guests. Perhaps that would be a point that you, dear representatives of the European Parliament, or the representatives of your parties, might be able to address so that we can benefit from it. This is just an example of how to implement European policies for citizens and yet have a strong EU. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another important point, however, is the independence of energy supply, and I therefore propose the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22111	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22178	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22199	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In fact, I would like to begin with an extract from an article by Dr. Peter Mooslechner, a national economist from the Austrian National Bank, who, among other things, writes in a book that no one has predicted that due to very special problems, namely the financing of the Subprime Housing Market in the USA, a financial market crisis with a massive outcome. impact on the real economy, with global emphasis on the word “world-wide” – will develop dimension. We all and the Austrian Federal Government, but also – and this only makes sense and was useful and important – all the Member States of the European Union have immediately tried to launch counter-tax measures in a coordinated action. Financial markets have been secured, even here in Austria, and economic packages have been chained and economic packages have been relocated. The extent of the disaster has not yet been known. However, it is essential – and this has already been said this morning – that the processes that have led to this disaster are precisely analysed that substantial lessons can be learned in the long term both in Austria and in particular in the European States' concert, for example, in order to install efficient, transparent and responsible financial market regulation – so that I do not mean a secret science, which only a few know-how knows about. In the future, more emphasis must be placed on the need to strengthen social security systems in order to create competitive markets within and outside Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we all benefit when people feel that you can rely on social security systems in times of crisis. With regard to all the differences within the countries of Europe, it will be necessary – and this is the task of the European Union; we are a member of the European Union and we will also support it – that this very stronger emphasis on social security systems should also be given in addition to the necessary further development of a competitive market. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22242	The next item is the speech by Mr Glaser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22263	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The unification process of Europe, which, as I believe, far-sighted politicians have begun after the war, has reached a high level – a position that these rulers probably would not have dreamed of themselves at that time. Today, based on the European Coal and Steel Community, we have a Europe almost without borders; a Europe that has overcome the Iron Curtain. We have a strong, symbolic currency, and we are an essential factor in the world as an economic factor. I think that's a lot of us too. It is also gratifying that, for example, according to the Eurobarometer, approval of the EU has increased by 3 percent after the latest reports in Austria. But there are still some – not to say many – who reject this Europe and this development, because it is too much fresh and wide for them and because it is too exciting for them. For myself, I would like to say that it is still too little Europe for me personally, because I wish for a Europe that not only has great economic weight but also more political weight, so that we can not only act as a payer in international crises, but also as a co-designer. I believe that we also need more European instruments in the field of the financial market, not only in the field of control, but also in the tax field, for example by introducing taxes on speculation and financial transactions. When, if not now, would the right date be given now? We also need an effective Europe in the field of energy and climate issues. So we need more Europe as a whole, and I believe that the new EU Treaty would be the right instrument for this. I therefore hope that it can really enter into force by the end of this year. I believe that we must also work much more towards each other between the States and, in particular, directly at the borders. I call an example from Burgenland: It is not very welcoming for our neighbors when they asphalt a road up to our border and then on our side there is a driving ban because the road there is simply a field road. That means that there is a need for changes in attitudes in the small as well as in the large. That's what we're all called for! In this context, I would like to express my surprise at the green position. Dear colleague Lunacek, I do not think it can be that one is enthusiastic European – and today you have spoken in this sense – but on the other hand it is European-critical! These are two very different things in principle! [[Abg. May. Lunacek: But this is new! I don't see that!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Dear colleague Lunacek, imagine the Burgenländer, the Steirer, the Carinthian or the Tyroleans will find that they are Austrian critical! Have you heard the news that a Burgenländer, a Wiener or a Niederösterreicher Austria is critical? You may not agree to decisions at federal level. That can happen, but that's nothing basic. Similarly, certain decisions in Europe cannot be accepted, but that is why one is not generally European. That would be a missing semantic, and therefore I ask you to really express yourself differently! By the way, I can ask everyone here in the house to continue to build Europe at the common house! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22309	Ladies and gentlemen, I say that the motion for a resolution on the equal use of the German language has been withdrawn as an EU language alongside English and French. We continue in the debate. The next speaker is Mr Grosz. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22342	Mr President. High house! As a 31-year-old, I would like to ask myself the question of how this Europe wants to reach my heart when it defines itself about the curvature of cucumbers and the amount of salt in the salt rod! What is it for a Europe that, instead of talking about employment and social strategies and strategies to combat poverty, prefers to talk for hours and weeks about whether we are receiving prisoners from Guantanamo or not? What kind of Europe is this? At the very best, because of the high price for coffee-making machines in Brussels at the expense of European citizens, is the Chinese population known? – This is not a Europe that many young people will win to participate in the Europe project! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Messianic and prophetic speeches by Klubobmann Cap and by Mr Grossmann do not help anything that seems to be constantly comparing itself with Barack Obama in the context of this European debate! There is a huge difference, Mr Klubobmann, between you, your party and the ÖVP on the one hand, and Mr Barack Obama, President of the United States of America, on the other. Mr Obama wants to break Mr Bush's system. You personally have been attending this House for decades, and you are a system guard who wants to preserve only this system, which is known to frighten and chase citizens! They represent the misery of European politics – and unlike you, Obama is hope! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Obama means democracy for many people. They, on the other hand, represent or convey to people a European dictatorship that does not allow citizens to participate. Obama means departure for many young people in America, but it is alluding to a fall with their government members or the assisted auxiliary bodies who are here today! Mr. Cap, I'll tell you another secret: You don't look at Mr Obama like that! As often as you can not even stand in front of the mirror, the similarity is ending up wanting! But there are reasons for the starkness within the European Union. A European Commission, as it stands today and how it has stood for people for years, will not reach the hearts of people, but at best remain anchored in the brains. But this is too little for a peace project. The second major debt is the debt of the Austrian Federal Government, which prefers to go to Brussels with a bred passage, there bubbling and prefers to do the court knicks in front of the Brussels buffets, than to represent the Austrian interests in an upright attitude. I now give you two positive examples of how Austria was represented in the European Union and how you could do so. As the first example, I call the former Social Minister Herbert Haupt, who went to Brussels in a sincere way and negotiated the seven-year transitional periods with German Social Minister Walter Riester, contrary to the wishes of the national states. Second example: Former Minister for Agriculture Wilhelm Molterer, together with the then Minister of Health Herbert Haupt, developed Europe-wide strategies to combat BSE in 2000 against the wishes of the European Commission and against a Mr David Byrne. I also call you a good idea as to how you can inspire people for Europe: Finally, release democracy! Release democracy so that people in the European Union – the Swiss model has already been mentioned today – can again democratically participate in this peace project! That is why Members Stadler, ladies and gentlemen have tabled a motion for a resolution on the renegotiation of a Treaty for Europe and the general obligation to implement referendums on fundamental questions of European integration. This motion for a resolution has been distributed, and I would ask you to agree to it. That would be democracy, and in this way you could actually stimulate people to believe in Europe again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22429	The request made by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues were – hard at the border – explained in his rough outlines, according to § 53 para. 4 in conjunction with § 55 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure are distributed to Members and are therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22553	The next item is the speech by Mr Muchich. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22576	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Secretary of State! We say a clear yes to the EU and its objectives, but we must, of course, also take action in the EU policy on the basis of the financial crisis and the resulting economic downturn from the Austrian perspective for necessary price corrections. It is therefore considered logical that objectives and agreements formulated and made in good times are re-examined and reconsidered in EU policy. Let me give you some examples of this. First example: Use of transitional periods. – The people in Austria do not understand when they become unemployed and at the same time we want new workers to come to our country. That means: As long as the wage differences between Austria and the new Member States are unchanged, it is therefore necessary to make full use of the transitional periods due to the current situation. Second example: Enlargement with the eligibility criterion. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely on this point that the rules of the game should be improved among the 27 EU countries before we include new countries in the EU as members. Apart from the fact that the number of EU Member States has doubled since 2004, candidates will in future meet the admission criteria in full and in accordance with their rigorosity. Third example: Measures against wage and social dumping. – The fear of people is well justified and understandable if, through cross-border activity of companies, the same working conditions do not apply to workers when wages under the collective agreement are paid and social conditions exist for workers who lead to unfair competition between companies. We don't want that and we don't need it! It is therefore important to work not only on better control possibilities, but also on efficient and effective sanctions or sanctions. These were just three examples, but there are many more. The EU has certainly brought us something. We know this, and this is what the Austrians know, and that is why they are largely behind the European Union. However, we also need to discuss all possible proposals for improvement in the context of the EU issues in order to ensure that as many people as possible can keep their jobs safe in our country. To secure and expand jobs with the European Union was always the goal – and that must also be our common goal in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22619	The next item is the report by Mr Wenninger. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22641	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! I am grateful to Mr Werner Faymannsehr, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, for having clearly and clearly postulated in his statement on European policy the focus of Austrian policy in the fight against the impact of the economic and financial crisis. At the same time, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has in all its clarity the Austrian positions which we have here in Parliament. Parliament in the form of tax relief measures, measures to strengthen Austrian purchasing power and measures to boost the Austrian economy have largely agreed together, also declared the focus of European policy from the Austrian point of view. However, I am also very grateful for the fact that, not only today, but already before the elections and in its declaration of government, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has given a very clear response to the concerns and scepticism of a part of the Austrian population towards European politics, not from populism, but from the realization that the common house of Europe can only be further developed positively if this is done together with the citizens of Austria and Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank Foreign Minister Spindelegger for not responding to the Europe-Scepticism, which is medial and real, but rather trying to turn his ear towards the population, to address the concerns and thereby to redefine Austrian integration and foreign policy. However, I would also like to thank the opposition in this House in the course of today's discussion. It was not only an argument during the live broadcast on television, it was really a political matter, it was a clear commitment of all the political parties in this House to the European Union, although with different priorities and different approaches to criticism, but with the perspective that we will bring together a basic European political consensus, perhaps not up to the elections to the European Parliament, but also in the medium and long term. This is what the Austrians want, that is what Europeans want. We want to build this house together in good neighborhood, in cultural diversity and, above all, in social security. Finally, I should like to make the following four-party motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: ‘The competent members of the Federal Government are invited to use the German language as a language of procedure at EU level in addition to English and French.’
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22704	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kurzmann, Dr Hübner, Mr Mag. Grossmann, Glaser, Bucher and other Members of Parliament are properly supported and brought in and are therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22755	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Gartlehner. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22777	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Mrs. Federal Minister! I am a little surprised at the fact that colleagues Grosz on the EU actually only invades the cucumber curve, which has now been liberalized. I believe that the European Union has shown its sense and importance in recent months: Through the euro, many of these Member States have only succeeded in creating a stable currency in the European Central Area. This is, in itself, a historical merit, which one should mention here, I believe, once again. We are in a recession in the world economy caused by the financial economy in the USA. The causes of this are in themselves known. We know that the Americans have had to print a lot of money in recent years. There have then been economic programmes in the real estate sector and also in the automotive industry in the USA. The Fed printed hard money and, of course, had to represent it accordingly. There were then precisely these MTN programmes, according to which within a year value increases of 1 400 percent were made, which then again received a drop from the World Bank. It is therefore very difficult financial services that have been exported by the US banks, which has led to the present problematic situation. The situation is very difficult at the moment. All consumption and financing services are served. In particular, I call the automotive industry, but also the real estate industry, which is now suffering serious damage. In view of this, I believe that it is really necessary for the European States to join forces in a process of cooperation. It is also important that the Community should be able to take action in the field of energy, in particular in the field of rail and road, but also in the field of fibre and broadband, and that it should invest in the energy sector over the next few years in order to bring about consolidation. I believe that the criticism that the Austrian banks risked too much, which has already been heard today, is not really true. I believe that the 228 billion outstandings of the Austrian banks are relatively modest compared to the outsiders, which alone has the Deutsche Bank with €2 100 billion, and that we probably do not have the biggest problems to expect in comparison with other European countries. The fact that the banks have not yet accessed the extent to which policy would have allowed it is likely that current balance sheets will be drawn up and made clear in individual households how much money is needed and how much money should be used. In this sense I hope that in the next few weeks we will get some very interesting information. To sum up, I believe that, in order to return to the European Union again, there is really an excellent opportunity to take action together in a united Europe in order to end this crisis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22822	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22843	Ladies and gentlemen! My remarks are based on Mr Kurzmann, Mr Hübner, Mr Grossmann, Mr Glaser and Mr Bucher's request to use the German language as an EU language alongside English and French. We will give the request the consent. I just want to say: With this request you run open doors! There was already a petition in the European Parliament, where 50 MEPs signed. The Commission has already welcomed this step towards promoting the diversity of languages and has found that Germany is already a language of procedure and is thus privileged to other official languages. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not Germany! German!]] So they're running open doors in there. We will also agree. I would like to point out, however, that it makes sense in the European context to speak foreign languages and to talk in them and not only to try to use the German language. This also makes sense in a Europe of diversity and language diversity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e22878	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Königshofer, colleagues on EU migration policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Grossmann, Dr. Plassnik, Scheibner, Mag. Lunacek, colleagues on the situation in the Middle East after the beginning of the ceasefire on 18 November. January 2009. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously adopted. (E 5.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Klubobmann Strache, ladies and gentlemen, on the reorientation of Austrian EU policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neubauer, fellow Members, on the termination of the European Union's accession negotiations with Turkey. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner, fellow Members, on the urgency of an EU-wide agreed supply and distribution management of gas reserves for crisis cases in accordance with Austria's model. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on the renegotiation of a Treaty for Europe and a general commitment to the implementation of referendums on fundamental questions of European integration. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kurzmann, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Grossmann, Glaser and Bucher, colleagues on the equal use of the German language as an EU language alongside English and French. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 6.) [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:44:16]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment No 269/A by Mr Günter Kößl, Mr Otto Pendl, Members on a Federal Act amending the Law on Fees in 1992, the Law on Fees 1957 and the Consular Fees in 1992 (42 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23027	We'll get to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Vilimsky spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23058	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Just allow me to say three words in a kind of ‘get out’ about the debate on the question debate. The first: For the SPÖ Chancellor Group, it is not a problem if the youth sells party eggs with burning tires and is currently on the homepage of the Socialist Youth. I will allow myself to give this to Clubobmann Cap or Mrs Rudas, whom I do not see now. Maybe this will disappear until the next time, and the chancellor party is making a leap forward. I've been thinking about saying something toward BZÖ. I did this to myself, but to Mr Pilz I would like to do something: They put me under control – that was quite a breakup – that by this attempt with the Taser brain cells obviously die. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Do you still feel it?]] I made myself medically smart there: That's not the case. But do you know, Mr Pilz, what is medically documented? – That brain cells die in the enjoyment of drugs or hashish. You yourself have already admitted that you have enjoyed this, and you stand up massively and vehemently for the release of drugs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Bitch.]] I would have liked to address a question to the ÖVP. I can't see Mr. Klubobmann a. D. Kussel now, but he's been so evocative that the accusation of Austrofascism is supposed to have been raised. [[Abg. Prince: Not only supposedly, but indeed!]] Is he hanging or is he not hanging in the club, the dolphin? Maybe someone can say yes or no! Is he hanging or not hanging? Is anyone getting married? - Yeah, he's hanging. Yeah, he's hanging in the ÖVP club! And what was the dolphin? History question! [[Abg. Strache: What was it?]] What was he? . We will ensure, with a request to the President of the House, that this also corresponds to the dignity of this House. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have to debate materially on the passport law which we have to debate today: The aim of this amendment of the Pass Act is to create another identification feature. You first digitized the photo... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] – Come on Get out of here! You can't hear from the back row! – The aim is to create another identification feature and to record fingerprints in addition to the digitalized photo. So far, so good. Now you have to... [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Wöginger and Mag. Ikrath.]] Come on. Get out! If you repeat each time, you don't do well! If you choose a law novel somewhere, you also need to explore the motive for why that is so. The version number 1 would be that the 8 million Austrian Schindluder drive with their passports. – I don’t think that’s the motive. The reason why we have another identification feature and 8 million Austrians, or, we say, 5 million Austrians, because the children are not being captured, have to give fingerprints – the fact that people from the African and Asian countries may not be sufficiently identified by the border authorities, because – and also these abuse cases, obviously in series – people who have been citizens of Austrian citizenship, take the passport and send it to their homes by mail. Then someone who wants to go to Austria doesn't even need a tow, but he travels quite normally with the passport with the picture and looks just like the person for which the pass was actually made and spent. This is the real motive for why more and more identification features must be included in the documents. In Austria and in many countries of the European Union, an abuse system has widened through the phenomenon of immigration and asylum fraud. And this abuse takes place towards the social system, towards the health system and also towards the Passwesen. But now we do not want to be the ones who have the Austrians pay the bill, but we will agree with this novel, that there is this additional identification feature, and we will also agree – and there is a common request – that it will be so for children up to 12 years of age, from which these fingerprints will not be removed and digitized, that there will be an approval here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why are you counter-notified? Is that the Taser, too?]] That is why it is a good way of doing things. If you define the situation correctly, I hope at least that red and black and those who have the responsibility draw their right conclusions on the migration, immigration and asylum policy of the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23166	Mr Maier spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would remind you of the Rules of Procedure and give him the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23190	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor, Mr Vilimsky, has quoted a situation that is not right. This European regulation, which we are now calling on, which can now be implemented, is based on an ICAO proposal – that is the International Civil Aviation Authority, Mr Vilimsky! And the first concern was to speed up border controls. What you have mentioned is SIS II Schengen. The Federal Minister will explain that there are currently problems in implementing at European level. Your argument was simply wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23225	Next item is the report by Mr Kößl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23246	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Before responding to the Novelle Passing Act, I would like to make a motion for a resolution by Mrs Kößl, Mr Pendl, Mr Vilimsky, Mr Ing. Introduce Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on a favourable exhibition of passports for children and young people under the age of 12 following the amendment of the relevant EU regulation. The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for the Interior is asked to take the necessary steps so that the exhibition of discounted passports for children and young people under the age of 12 is still possible.” Ladies and gentlemen, the passport novelle brings in the introduction of additional identification features in the passport, of biometric characteristics in Rei- sepässen. It has already been suggested that in addition to the digital light image, the papillary line prints of two fingers are now to be anchored in the passport. This will implement an EU regulation from 2004. This, in particular, brings a significant increase in security. I mean, that's actually reason enough for you to agree to this novel. In addition to the European Union, many other countries around the world have introduced this biometry as a key technology for internal security, not only for passports, but also for visas, residence permits and identity cards. In the first place, then, there is a substantial increase in security in this new orientation of the Pass Law. It is also clear, of course, in the implementation that the Federal Ministry of the Interior provides the certificates required by the border control posts in order to be able to implement this law as well. An important contribution is also that the storage period for these fingerprints has been reduced to four months abroad and to two months domestically. The four months abroad constitute a clear and sensible measure that we can take account of the postal route without any additional burden on the applicant if there is any abuse or failure in the exhibition. Generally speaking, it must be said that this passport law novelle is an important step towards greater security for the people of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23304	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23368	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23389	Ladies and gentlemen! First a personal regret for the first late sequence of the Taser bet. The honourable Member, Mr Vilimsky, has reported himself as a counter-redner and has found that he will, of course, agree. [[Cheerfulness with Greens and BZÖ.]] The distinction between pro and counter has been lost due to self-tazation. The next late consequences may well be loss of spatial, personal and political orientation. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] At the moment when honourable Member Vilimsky becomes a hydrant “H. C. says, I suspect that there is also the first Members of the Freedom Party who are going to disapprove of using the Taser at least in their own attempt. Please let Mr Vilimsky increase the necessary support in the club! He really deserved it in every respect. So much for it. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] [[Abg. Street: The joints must have tasted well!]] I would just like to say one thing about this amendment: The Minister of the Interior is, in this case, largely innocent, because it is a regulation from Brussels that forces us to put that point into effect in Austrian law. The regulation, which I believe to be very difficult in principle, forces us to solve a problem that has not existed. If you had asked the predecessors and predecessors of the minister-in-law of the Interior whether the Austrian passport was safe from counterfeiting, each of them would have said: Well, of course, there's no falsification-proof pass like this pass! And the problem that is now being solved is: How can I make a falsification safe pass through fingerprints falsification safe? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] I think that this is something that I am not responsible for in view of the security budgets, the savings measures, the lack of personnel, the problems in the criminal police, the training and, and money. Again: This is not the internal minister's fault, but we have really gotten this problem from Brussels, of course without apparent resistance from the representatives of the Austrian Federal Government. What can you do now? We've been talking to the Ministry of the Interior. There have been two or one-and- a-and-a-half concrete improvements – and I am aware of this – that we owe essentially to the good formulations of Dr. Epp in the ÖVP Parliamentary Club. In our opinion, a problem has still not been solved, namely that of the time limits for erasure. We have pleaded for the immediate deletion of this data in the bank after the document was delivered. Now there is a two-month period with which we do not agree in this form, because we do not think it is necessary and here the interests in personal data have not been sufficiently respected, while respecting data protection. – This is the essential criticism of the novelle itself. More importantly, however, it will be in the future to oppose serious policies against the biometric and, in particular, fingerprints that are frenzied across Europe. We know that because of the fingerprints, one can of course persecute terrorists. However, the criminal police and the protection of the constitution make sense to point out that, for example, we must have the fingerprints of the citizens of Afghanistan, Pakistan, Sudan and some other countries in order to persecute terrorists. To date, no one has been able to explain to me what is being collected by European citizens in large quantities of fingerprints. I think that even within the security executive, and especially the criminal police, there is a certain degree of headquake about a slight waste of resources which Austrian security policy has not deserved. I fear that the Minister of the Interior as a person and as a politician is not the appropriate representative of the interests of data protection in Vienna, but also in Brussels. That is why we must hope that the European Parliament's false Council policy, as represented by the Minister for the Interior, will do something about it. That's all I wanted to notice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lettenbichler.]] I wish my colleague Vilimsky health and good improvement from the bottom of my heart! [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Finally, as I say, of course: By the way, I believe that a President like you, Mr Graf, who is constantly advocating right-wing extremism, is not only possible in this Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23489	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Maier. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23510	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make the following point in advance: Mr Pilz has meant that biometric data are collected. I hold fast – and this is exactly what characterizes this draft: In particular, this draft ensures that biometric data are not collected in Austria because they are not part of the central evidence file. . I would like to say this clearly here once. The problem we face is simply that biometric data can be processed and used digitally. There are huge areas of problem under data protection law. I am therefore pleased that, including our Socialist Group, the European Parliament made a very clear statement last week, a new regulation on the use of biometric data in the passport area, namely that the data collected on the basis of this Regulation should be used exclusively for the purpose of safeguarding the external borders of the European Union. If Member States – and this is the decisive for us to use data protection law – the biometric data differently, for example for the purpose of law enforcement, their own national laws must be adopted. There is therefore no legal basis for processing biometric data in Austria from the European level. The draft, which is before us, Mr Kößl's request and Mr Pendl's request, corresponds precisely to this data protection procedure. The European Court of Justice has also recently expressed itself very clearly. He has drawn up a border for national governments, with his decision against the British Government in the case of Marper. In this, the ECJ had declared the storage of DNA data and fingerprints disproportionate and incompatible with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. I would just like to make this clear as the Vice-President of the Data Protection Council. I see problems. However, the current European legal situation – and I am contradicting Mr Pilz – secures data protection rights on this issue, and the decision of the European Parliament, Mr Pilz, which was taken last week, was welcomed by European data protection organisations. The proposal we are about to vote on now provides that general storage is not taking place. On the basis of the amendment, it also provides for a reduction of the storage time to two months, Mr Pilz, whom the Greens in the Committee on the Interior, by the way – and I would like to say this clearly to everyone – have agreed. Only now in plenary do they say no. This is an interesting development and also shows the handshake quality or the political quality of the green side. As this agreement was reached jointly within the Committee on the Interior, we meant that at least agreement could be reached on this issue. You, Mr Pilz, have taken this unanimous statement back here today; I do not understand. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There is, of course, a discussion at European level on the use of biometric data. That is what Mr Vilimsky meant, namely the control of the external borders. This is the Schengen SIS II issue. This is a matter of our own which, in principle, has nothing to do with the proposal on which we have to vote today. I too wish, Mrs Federal Minister, that this issue should continue at European level and that there should not be further delays. After the last Council of Ministers meeting, we had to note that the system is not yet working, although millions have already been invested in this area. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We will therefore agree to this request by Mr Kößl and Mr Pendl, because we – and I stress that! – the data protection problem situations are clarified. At the same time, we must follow this debate very sensitively at European level, because there are, of course, risks in the digital processing of biometric data.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23588	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Excuse me, no, you are not the next to speak, but Mr Fichtenbauer. I would like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23620	Mr President. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! You can see where people work, mistakes can occur: It was a mistake that Mr. Vilimsky and I were registered as a counter-responsor. We are pro speakers, although we have to note critical points. Just like Mr Hofer at the next point and just as now with the small mistake in calling the speaker list. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a conscious abuse!]] The reason to talk about this lies in the following: We agree. - Good. It is about implementing an EU regulation, a directive. - Yeah, well. What is a passport for? – To determine the identity of a person. Therefore, the enrichment of a photo by a biometric element... – That is already corrected. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is conscious abuse of the Rules of Procedure!]] This is not worth it; it is corrected at the Bureau. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not a mistake! A very conscious abuse of the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Strache: He just said it was a mistake!]] [[Call at BZÖ: Then correct it!]] [[Abg. Strache: He has now corrected it!]] [[Call BZÖ: If it were corrected, he wouldn't talk now!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure!]] Keeping the biometric data further is therefore safe from the first sight because it concerns the compression of the identity of the person. But this is the reason to think about the obvious problems of data security and the fundamental and freedom rights of the people who today are indissolubly linked to the question of data protection. Therefore, we cannot keep track of the implementation of this directive and the change in passports through the inclusion of biometric data without at the same time keeping in mind future change needs in data protection. Of course, there is now also an extension of the concept of the glass person, a clear case, but we are watching in the case of pompous and illegal data trading. It will therefore be necessary to fight seriously against data trafficking, which constitutes a serious interference in fundamental and freedom rights. I can only remind you of the following points: the “glass person” who solves his customer card at shopping centres or the like, where this data is then passed on from one company to another, or the question of credit assessment systems, to the question of black lists, see the report of someone who received an unjust warning of €40 – and he was denied registration with a mobile operator. This is a heavy luggage, which is currently to be carried and perceived by society. It has come under the shadow of the previous, inconspicuous systems, and I am very sorry that we are going to devote ourselves very quickly and intensively to these things in the future. There must be a counterweight that experiences a strengthening based on a law to be adopted today, and that must be counterweighted. This concerns all people, no matter whether old or young, man or woman. Today's threat of fundamental and freedom rights is not the fault of the policeman – it can, of course, be – but it is the glass man in connection with uncontrolled data streams. Therefore, this comment on today's matter. Jacky Maier is certainly a serious interlocutor for these future projects. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23743	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Westenthaler. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23765	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's interesting: Sometimes the mills of politics also grind very slowly. It is now exactly seven and a half years since we – then the clubman of the FPÖ Group, the government group, with its competitors – called for fingerprints for all passports in Austria on 25.9.2001. We've got this on October 2nd. – that is, a short time after that – expanded and said that we also demand it because fingerprints will come across Europe in the next few years – I said then, in five years. I confess I was wrong. It took not five years, but seven and a half years. But what happened at the time – those who were there at the time – knows it – was a storm of indignation against this proposal by all the other political groups, I would like to remind you a little bit. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs. Fekter was still a Member of Parliament at the time, full of outrage!]] – Yes, Mrs. Federal Minister was a Member of Parliament at the time. Since Mrs Kuntzl is just sitting here and looking hard into her laptop, I should like to remind you of what Mrs Kuntzl said at the time, for example, about exactly what she agreed with today, namely fingerprints for everyone in the passports. I quote what she said on 27 May. September said: "Westenthaler apparently tries to abuse the increased security need of the population after the terrible terrorist attacks in order to enforce his vision of a surveillance state." [[Abg. May. Kuntzl: That must have been so! I'm sure that's true!]] Decision You're the surveillance state today, Mrs. Kuntzl? [[Abg. May. Stadler: She now also has visions!]] It was also said at the time: “For this, he brings methods such as fingerprinting for everyone into the conversation” – we decide today, Mrs Colleague; They stand up for it today – “who do not increase security, nothing to combat serious crime and nothing to combat terrorism.” And Mrs Kuntzl also said: ‘At the same time, however, such monitoring methods endanger open society and its rights of freedom.’ Well, Mrs. Kuntzl! How do you explain our consent today? [[Abg. May. Worm: The data is not saved!]] We are abolishing the rights of freedom today? We risk Austria today and make Austria a surveillance state? - Highly interesting! [[Abg. May. Worm: Storage only two months!]] But there is another prominent politician who spoke for it at the time. Mr Kößl has failed today to ensure that the passports with the fingerprints are now so safe. At the time, there was a German chancellor – Federal Chancellor Schüssel – who did not want to enforce it with us. I quote Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, today's MP, who also today – I hope he will be there and will vote for the fingerprints for everyone! – will give his consent. Do you know what Dr. Schüssel said then? Quote: A mandatory fingerprint acceptance of all Austrians does not come into question! – As read in the issue at that time, he justified this as follows: “You don’t want to protect the world from the Austrians.” That was his plausible explanation at the time. “It remains that fingerprints are only taken by criminals.” – And today we decide that the fingerprints are coming from all into passports because they are a very important identification feature that contributes to greater security against crime and, in the broadest sense, to terrorism. Do this to him, Dr. Schüssel! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At the time, however, we were drugged by the media. Everyone has given up on what humane policy we are making. Seven and a half years is now the half-life in Austria, that reasonable demands prevail – seven and a half years! I could quote so much now, but I'm saving it. Mr Pilz knows exactly what he said at the time. He is also a little milder today, but at the time we were of course the class enemy for the left. They said that if you took fingerprints from all Austrians, 8 million Austrians would be stamped to suspects. – Okay, at least you were consistent and you didn’t agree today either, you explained to us today. That is at least consistent. You spoke of illegal nonsense et cetera. But Mr. Jarolim, the SPÖ Justice Officer – where is he? – will agree today. [[Call the BZÖ: In the buffet!]] He said that deciding fingerprints for everyone would be a tragic development for the Austrian rule of law and fundamental rights in Austria. – Jarolim said that at the time. And the union – where are the trade unionists, who today all vote for the fingerprints? – then referred to this demand as the last-class one and asked whether those who demand it were at all suitable for public offices. Today they all decide. Haberzettl, the union then questioned that people who demand fingerprints for everyone are suitable for public offices. – And today you agree with yourself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl.]] [[Abg. Grosz: (in the direction of SPÖ) You have already given all the fingerprints at the BAWAG process!]] It is the question of whether you are suitable for a public office. Now you have to question yourself. You agree with that today. Half-life: seven and a half years. We're happy today: We have implemented this after seven and a half years of consistent work, because it is correct because we are building up a security feature that will be important in the fight against crime. Today I am very proud and happy that we have implemented this demand and that we will all agree to this demand today. - Complement, I congratulate you on having become a little smarter seven and a half years later. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23901	Mrs Fekter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23924	High house! Mr President. In order to protect against counterfeiting, Mr. Pilz, but also to protect against abuse – namely the misuse of travel documents – these higher safety standards have been drawn up at European level, and Austria, like any other EU Member State, has committed itself to doing so from 28. June 2009 to spend only more passports that have on the one hand an electronic chip – we have been doing that since 2006 – and on the other hand, we have stored in this chip the fingerprints and other data of the pass. The data to be processed during the exhibition of a passport must be supplemented by the two drawing finger prints – that is the case; there will be cases where there are not the two pointing fingers. In order to ensure that the passport holder is in fact identical to the person described therein. This is intended to prevent abusive use and forgery. Little changes in the duration of the exhibition and the procedure. That means that it will only last five working days until you get a passport you have requested. The state printing company takes care of the technical procedure. This has proved successful so far. There, the technical implementation is provided, the passport is printed and presented to the desired address, i.e. by post, so that you also have a proof. The cost of 69,90 € for a passport remains unchanged. The passport with fingerprints can also still be requested from the municipalities. The application will then be forwarded to the authorities – County Headquarters or Magistrate. This, of course, requires the empowerment of mayors to accept these fingerprints in accepting the requests. For a few months now, the Ministry of the Interior has been preparing for this and has provided representatives of the countries and magistrates with the necessary framework conditions. There are already a number of test facilities in different districts and cities in order to optimally prepare the changeover. By April, we will also have technically equipped all the bodies concerned to do so. A special focus – that has already been mentioned – is, of course, used for the production of these passports for data protection. On the one hand, the data of these passports cannot be changed and cannot be copied, and on the other hand, there is no possibility of subsequent storage of these data. Therefore, this law has of course also provided for the destruction of the loss of fingerprints and their short-term storage. We have arranged four months for a service abroad and two months – shortened – for domestic delivery. This is a service we offer to the passers-by that, if any defect occurs in the delivery, the fingerprints do not have to be taken once again, but a new exhibition of the pass and its delivery will be possible. In these cases it is about the proof that the passport was sent but has not arrived. If this passport – for which reasons always – is shown not to be delivered to the person concerned, a new document must be issued. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, about 1 million Austrians receive a new passport every year, which is not a small number. And these persons then benefit from the greatest possible security of the document and from a smooth procedure in the exhibition and delivery. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I've got a passport before, Mrs. Minister,...!]] It is true that this technology has been in use since 2006. You know, the new passports since 2006 have all had a chip. What we're doing now is anchoring the fingerprint on this chip. It is true that the data contained in the passport and anchored in the security chip cannot be modified or copied without recognition and can also be read electronically from the Schengen controllers via the Schengen Information System I. With regard to the Schengen Information System II, which Mr Maier has referred to, it is right that the implementation date promised by the EU Commission in September 2009 will not be met in all probability, because the test phases are not satisfactory enough. This has also been the discussion of the last informal Council of Ministers. I can inform you that the current Czech Presidency in Prague wants to devote itself to this very issue in order not to put money in the sand and to be able to implement this SIS II electronic information system, which is already advanced in broad development, but still in an acceptable time frame. Austria has agreed to support both experts and know-how with regard to an evaluation committee, which will then accompany the project pro futuro. I believe that these measures will give us security that will also protect us from the possibility that criminal energy may be able to use stolen passports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23977	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e23999	High house! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, a clarification: In the Committee on the Interior, of course, the Greens did not agree to the request, but only to the amendment in recognition of the consultative talks with the Minister for the Interior. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Amendment – I said that!]] And that's how it was communicated. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: That was the wish of the Greens!]] Secondly, I would like to say to the motion for a resolution that we shall in principle agree with this. But this isn't going far enough for us. Perhaps the next time we talk about it, the next time we talk about it, we could also think about making more cost-effective passports available to all minors. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We decide today!]] Thirdly, Security has many facets, we know. And a policy task is to give young people a clear sense of security. So I also come to the various colour-shaped ID cards for young people, for minors. This means that ID cards for under 16-year-olds are designed differently than ID cards for over 16-year-olds. This law is simply not practical because it depends on the date of the application. That is to say, a 15-and-a-half-year-old youth asks for a card and gets it in the color of the under 16-year-olds. However, the card is valid for another year, i.e. even if it is more than 16, even if other provisions on youth protection apply, it has an ID card for under 16-year-olds. All of this is extremely impracticable. That is, everyone and everyone who controls youth IDs must first look back at the date of birth, whether that is appropriate. It seems as if it is a marking, a stigmatization of young people. It seems that when a check shows a red card for under 18 year olds, it means: Stop, a young man! Help, Vandalen! Help, criminal energy! And it really can't be, because freedom for young people is constantly restricted, and once again it is marked, it is stigmatized. And that is why we cannot go along with Greens, because young people do not need a mark, but a living youth protection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Youth protection also means, ladies and gentlemen, protecting young people and children from health, moral and other risks. Right-wing extremism is another danger, and young people need to be clearly protected from people like the Third President of the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24075	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24096	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The access to the new safe passport is quite different and can be explained here and there from my point of view. The fact that the Pilz colleague thinks that this is a problem is not a surprise. Mr Pilz, you also conceal the fact that today there is still abuse after theft and loss of passport documents. I think it is with this new safe passport that we can stop this abuse. I understand that Mr Westenthaler focuses on the seven and a half years. Maybe you can explain it this way, good things need longer, right? [[Abg. May. Stadler: At the ÖVP!]] - Please? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With you!]] It has also technically improved and changed a lot in seven and a half years. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The finger is always the same! Seven years!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We only want one finger, you want two!]] – Yes, we have the double security if we do it with two fingers. I believe that in principle there is broad support for this EU directive, and I believe it is important that we have uniform standards in Europe when it comes to the safety of travel documents, to stop or to reject abuse - I have already said it. I think we can move a lot in the assignment and also in support for the executive and security bodies with this new safe passport. In addition to the biometric facial image, it is no shame that we recently anchor these fingerprints on the passports. I am of the opinion that this period of erasure of two months is quite in the sense of the inventor; the colleague Pilz has made that claim. I am also so open and fair to say, I think it is all right for you to deal with this sensitive issue with a certain sensitivity. State printing will also be equipped with extreme security rules as a body exhibiting these documents. The regulations on security arrangements, if there is access to the data of the chip, are also provided all around. It's about safety, about our highest good. That is why I would like to thank all those who agree to this legislative initiative today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24171	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24207	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! You mentioned memory functions briefly. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't say anything about saving!]] You have also addressed the question of fingerprints and you have been fighting for them for so long. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But only for one finger!]] You have not said, for example, that the time limits for storage have been reduced, that precisely these deadlines have also been gratefully reduced on the suggestion of the data protection rate from four to two months, and so on. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We don't want to save anything!]] - I'm just telling you. And here, as you know, we are implementing an EU regulation. But let me also focus on other aspects. This law is important – important for the families in our country. The gentlemen have not mentioned this at all here more or less. Thankfully, Mr Kößl has tabled a motion for a resolution on the future of children who, when this EU regulation enters into force, apply for passports in which a chip is but not fingerprints. Mr Westenthaler, there are no fingerprints, but the digitized passport image. Therefore, according to the current regulation, these children who then receive this pass would have to pay as much, so 69 € and a few cents, like the adults who apply for this pass. There is a great deal of help to this motion for a resolution. In this regard, Mrs Bundesminister, we ask you to follow this resolution of the National Council, if it is so decided, so that families are no longer burdened. The families need this in our country too. - That's one. I would like to draw your attention to something else, ladies and gentlemen, above all, but also ladies. It is time and again, when one speaks to people in Austria, above all with women, to complain about it, just recently again, that if one asks for a passport and has a female academic title, it is not possible to get the abbreviation of this title, for example Mag.a iur., in the passport accordingly. Here is the legal opinion that Mag. or Dr. can be seen as neutral, i.e. also as female. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Using the Neutrum: “Magistrum”, “Ingenieurum”!]] That is why, Mrs. Federal Minister, I would appeal to you for us to put together that we also have talks with the Federal Minister for Science in this regard, namely that the university law is amended in such a way that it is possible for those who want it... – This is not an orchid theme, Mr. Ewald Stadler, Magister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I am Magistra and would have liked to have noticed that. It is not an orchid theme, for example, that I am recognizable in my passport as a magistra or a doctor. It will be necessary to admit that to me and to many other women too. It is inconsistency at all when, on the other hand, – and this has already been fought by women lawyers – the female version is very likely to be used in the certificate to award the diploma in written form. It's inconsistent. In reality, we should not be concerned that a sense of appeal may be used up by the body, go to the Constitutional Court, make an Article 144 complaint, and then request Article 7(3). We owe it to women. This is a minimum of equality policy; we have to do that.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24296	The next item is the speech by Mr Grosz. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24317	Mr President. High house! With the reaction time of a sleeping tablet – for seven and a half years are no different – we have decided today to call for something that was then called upon by Members to increase safety. But you know what's so annoying about me is that you've been hiding out here in this debate for the seven and a half years, and no one of the Members of the two government parties has the chance to take part in this debate and say, Mr Westenthaler, I am right to say that we should have done it seven and a half years ago, then we would have saved a lot of safety in the last seven and a half years. – An honest word sometimes helps more. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That the ÖVP, but also the SPÖ in many areas should make better advertising for Valium than policy in this country, we know. That you just wipe out a security policy measure from the table for seven and a half years and then – and that's the bad thing! – having thought about heme is bad. I quote ÖVP Minister of the Interior Ernst Strasser, he should not be unknown to you: The fingerprints required by Westenthaler refer to Strasser as an obsolete system. It is the system of the fifties. [[Oh, call at BZÖ.]] Bundeskanzler Schüssel: You want to protect the world from the Austrians when you introduce fingerprints. And according to such haemic comments, thanks to God now, seven and a half years later, lead to an insight into you – to an insight that at least this desire, this legitimate demand will finally be met. Because we are more secure and since we are currently in the process of defining especially immigrants clearly in our country as such and not allowing them to be illegally diverted: The discussion about the fingerprints is of course also a related discussion, which we have been conducting for half a year in Styria and in Carinthia thanks to the “beautiful” activity of the Minister of the Interior in the city of Styria and in Carinthia, namely the first reception site in South, which you want to give us, but also the thrusting center in Leoben. And I would like to stress once again, Mrs. Inner Minister: We don't want it, neither in Styria nor in Carinthia. - First of all. Secondly, It is also technically unexplainable, because if you want to build a thrusting center in Leoben, which has only one purpose, namely that you can also push off depositors, then explain to me, provided that you are able to drive your own car and properly estimate the distance between the nearest airport Vienna-Schweichat and Leoben, the considerable distance of 162 kilometers. And that's why we recommend once again that you take the locations for a thrusting center in Leoben, but also a starting point In the south, consider again, not to move to Styria and not to Carinthia, but to actually join and clarify with experts, where this is also logistical and traffic-technically favourable. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to ask Members Schönegger, Schaffenrath, Riener and Silhavy, the Styrian Members to return here again and represent the interests of their two federal states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24405	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is sufficiently supported and properly submitted, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24476	Next item is Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti's speech. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24497	Mr President. I'm going to be short. Mr Grosz, I have been very surprised by you in the last few days and my sympathy for you has increased immensely. But with your blasphemous speech today, I have to tell you that this sympathy is completely gone again, because that's not what you're going to let go of here about former government partners. You were then probably too weak for not persevering. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You didn't get it!]] And to the backbone, Mr Grosz: I've been 51 years old and I've certainly proved a lot more backbone, because you have to do that first. [[Newly welcomed by the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Should I give you the results of the election of 28. lettering on September?]] But now on the content of this passport law. – From my point of view, the above mentioned safety standards and the fact that abuse can be stopped practically. This is a very important protection, and I am sure that Mrs Federal Minister Fekter will also make every effort to ensure that the certificates are issued only to those authorities that they really need, namely border controls. I believe that this new passport law will not only make Austria but also Europe safer. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now at once!]] One more comment: I don't understand why the greens are always so excited when it comes to data protection and fingerprints. Mr Pilz, for example, loves to fly to the USA, and he doesn't care if he has to print all ten fingerprints at all. It does not matter to the honourable Member Pilz, either, if he lets out secret information from committee of inquiry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24572	The next item is the speech by Mr Fazekas. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24593	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Westenthaler, I ask for your attention very briefly! They are so happy to quote what Members said seven years ago – in the In the meantime, a little has changed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What changed?]] They have heard that the framework conditions have changed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Nothing has changed!]] I can recall that you, Mr Westenthaler, once said: I'll take the hat, adieu! – Now you’re back – you don’t stick to what you say. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with SPÖ and BZÖ.]] So I wouldn't throw stones when I'm sitting in the glass house, and I'd judge it a little differently. We have already said that this change of law is also based on an EU directive. I think it is important and good that this document becomes more falsifying. What surprises me a little with the liberals, but also with the BZÖ: When we talk about security, you always talk primarily about migration, migrants and migrants. [[Abg. Strache: In the detention centre we see unfortunately...! More than 85 percent of the non-Austrian population!]] We must not forget that there are other issues that we can deal with in connection with security in our country. There are those who use fake documents for fraud, for credit fraud, and there are also those who travel with fake documents, and therefore it is very good if there is a passport that is semi-falsificational. The Austrian travel document is highly falsifying, which is also true for many, yes, for most EU countries. However, there are still problems with documents in other countries, and this means that we should, very probably also with regard to illegal migration, try to ensure that those countries where this standard has not yet been introduced can have this standard in the future, so that we can really get out of a uniform safety standard. That's, I think, right, and that's good. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to use this opportunity to thank all those authorities, namely the passover authorities, who are trying in the sense of public service, to issue very competent and rapid passports to citizens. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But that usually does the Pendl! Thanks for the pendl!]] I would like to thank, above all, the executive officials who are serving at border police inspections and who are excellent specialists in the recognition of counterfeit and counterfeit travel documents. This testifies to their experience, but it also testifies to their training. It is also necessary, however, to provide the necessary equipment, Mrs Federal Minister, so that this good work can also be done. I think the presentation is a very reasonable work, all the topics have been discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24676	Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24697	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to say one thing to Mr von der ÖVP: It is not new that our ideas are brought in and these are then realized by the ÖVP years later. I experience this almost monthly in my home community in Vorarlberg: that old applications are taken up by us again and then sold and realized by the ÖVP as new ones. – Well, you can think of that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I find it positive that the fingerprints enter the passports. This represents a massive improvement in safety. I would also like to mention that very good document counterfeiting officials are performing their activities abroad, especially by the Austrian police. All that serves security supports those people who are teaching other police agencies abroad, whom I would like to express a special thanks here. Ladies and gentlemen, the A-Card may still be in your memory – Peter Westenthaler has gone back to 2001 –: In 1999, fingerprints were addressed in the so-called A-Card, analogous to the Green Card in America. I picked out some newspaper articles from then on. At that time it was “Jewstern” and what do I know what everything was talking, that is, a crazy discussion. – Today, thank God, no more topic at all. We know that we in the European Union are living in less secure countries through open borders and that it is important to make improvements here. It has been said in general, but one thing I would like to add here: A major concern is that the e-card is also equipped with fingerprints so that the abuse that is on the agenda is finally stopped. We will, of course, vote in favour of our long-term request, I am already looking forward to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24741	Mr Johann Maier spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would remind him of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24765	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor claimed that it would be an ongoing abuse of the e-card. – That’s wrong! I'm correcting: In 2007, there were only two criminal investigations in the Ministry of the Interior. The abuse used to be much higher in the normal health certificate than in the e-card.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24794	No one has been reported here in the word. I'll close the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 42 of the supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. Thank you. It's mostly that way. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kößl, Mr Pendl, Mr Vilimsky, Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on a favourable exhibition of passports for children and young people under 12 years of age following the amendment of the relevant EU regulation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 7.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, fellow Members, on the immediate removal from the project of a'schubhaftszentrum' in Leoben, as well as the establishment of another first post of reception 'South'. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[20:50:12]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment 270/A by Mr Günter Kößl, Mr Otto Pendl, Mr Enright, on a Federal Act amending the Civil Service Act 1986 (43 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24890	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24917	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Civil service is now – thank God! – becoming an indispensable pillar in our social and health system, yes, in our functioning civil society. In 2008, some 13,000 young men in Austria were employed in various areas for the Austrian population. No matter whether in the life-saving, in the fire- defend, in hospitals, in nursing homes, in the disabled, in the aid of life, or also in agriculture, as well as in children's lotteries – civil service is positively anchored in society, enjoys high acceptance; civil servants are accepted and respected by the population. That was not always the case, ladies and gentlemen. I myself was a civil servant at the Red Cross 15 years ago; there was something else in the case. – This is also an absolute win-win situation for the state: On the one hand, the public hand saves money in millions, and on the other hand, young men get to know our social system very well in dealing with people in need of help. Therefore, the increase in food money in comparison to the German army, which we decide with this novel, is necessary and absolutely justified to raise the daily fee from € 13.60 to €16. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, to our Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Fekter, who has made this improvement for the civilians. Before the election announced, implemented after the election. – Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for this initiative! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For civil servants, this means an increase of €55 per month, which is also a measure against inflation; something that will actually be felt by civil servants. It is also important to increase and adapt the monthly amounts of support to support organisations accordingly. The monthly basic remuneration was also paid by the Minister's regulation per 1st. January 2009 raised from 276 € to 286 €, i.e. by 10 €. – Also a positive financial measure for civil servants. We should also consider whether in future we are not valorizing these funding amounts annually. At present, the costs remain with the institutions when it comes to this annual adjustment. The Civil Service Act, which dates back to 1986, will also concern us in the future, because there must be adjustments there and there, of course. For example, the 15-year ban on civil servants who are not able to hunt for 15 years after the removal of the civil service and who are not able to join the gun club. It's no longer contemporary today. This once had a different reason because before the Commission every civil servant had to be consciously said that the use of a weapon was denied. That has not been there for 15 years, so we should think about it. A number of points from the Civil Service Reform Commission are also pending for implementation. Mrs. Federal Minister, I'm looking for conversations here. I believe that we here in Parliament, especially the speakers in this area, should consider how we can continue to make civil service attractive and implement it in the future. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the staff in the ministry who are responsible for civil service, the entire workforce in the Civil Service Service Agency, which works very well, also for all our interventions in this field – thank you – and, last but not least, all civil servants working in the various organizations around the clock for our people – for their willingness to help and love for people. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e24983	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25005	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! The Federal Government, which we have just heard, has set itself the goal of carrying out adaptations in the field of civil service. An important step is to increase the food money for civilians, and this is being done with the present proposal today. The food money for civilians is increased from €13.50 to €16, and at the same time the budget is increased for the support organisations; this is important because the civil servants are paid by the support organisations. I am convinced that this increase is a very important step, a real step, because the civil servants provide a very, very valuable service to society. It is necessary to imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that some 10,000 civil servants each year perform their military service in some 1,000 recognised organisations. This is a very, very important service to society. We all know today that these young men, with their work, contribute significantly to the functioning of the day in many aid organizations, whether in rescue services, in relief organizations or in nursing homes. Civil servants are often a very important part of the teams – without civil servants, many areas would simply be impossible to achieve. That's what we're all aware of. I think that this importance, this valuable work must also be reflected in the framework that policy has to create. In my opinion, it is our duty to create framework conditions that are good for civil service that are in order for civil servants. One point here is the appropriate financial compensation of civilian servants. However, there are other points – Mr Wöginger has already mentioned this – which we should discuss in the field of civil service, which we should all discuss together if we continue to want civil service for young men to remain attractive. I think the benefit for the individual person, for the individual young man is a whole, very big one. In many discussions with young civil servants – this will be done to all of you – it can also be recognized that they themselves experience this work in nursing homes, in rescue organizations, in relief organizations as very valuable. For the first time in their life, many come into contact with older people who are in need of care and experience this service as quite intense and also very powerful for their own personality. We should set signals in this direction on the part of politics. We should point out that civil servants feel appreciated by all of us in the future of politics. Perhaps in future we can also discuss whether this time spent by civil servants in their civil service can be taken into account for any subsequent vocational training in the care sector, but also in the disability field. That would be a point which we can consider together, which we can consider and discuss in order to make civil service even more attractive. Finally, I would like to thank, above all, the civil servants who, in my opinion, – and I often experience this when visiting nursing homes – very much in these institutions, even beyond the actual profile of demands, which are really devoted to this great task with their whole commitment, with their whole heart. I would like to say thank you very much, especially for the fact that many young men continue to do voluntary work in rescue services and also in nursing homes after the delivery of the civil service. I think... Ladies and gentlemen, especially in the field of rescue, it will be important to find volunteers in the future, and if the interest in civil service is aroused, then, I think, we have done two flies at one time, because on the one hand, a great service is being done to society and on the other hand, voluntary work can continue to be carried out.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25056	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Hofer. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25077	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Right ahead: When I finished my military service, it was so – I have to admit – that civilians had no great recognition with us. We have voluntarily reported on a year-old basis, have done so with great enthusiasm, and at that time there was also the question of conscience, which also Federal Minister Darabos had to present, namely not being able to carry out the service with the weapon for conscientious reasons. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] It then – and this strengthened me in my opinion at the time – a good friend of mine who was always very attached to the SPÖ or rather to the Greens, that is, somewhere in this area, reported to the civil service and was then assigned to the “children’s friends”, and he provided the “children’s friends” telephone service and had to report with “friendship” on the phone, and he was also assigned for the 1. May prepare the flags. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This young man, who was always on your side, never chose SPÖ again – he was so shocked by this service there that he just turned away from this left area. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have experienced something different. I have experienced, for example, at the “White Court”, that there are civilians doing a service that is really hard, physically and psychologically hard. It is also used in the Red Cross civil servants, so that we have to realize that today, without civil servants, the operation would actually stand in the hands of blue light organizations. That is why it is very important to support these civil servants as well. I have now revised my opinion, which I formed in my one year volunteer year at the time. For me, civil servants are very dedicated young people who are willing to make a social contribution to our home country of Austria, and this is due to great respect and great recognition, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is a pity, however, that there are not all opportunities for young women in the field of civil service. They know that women today, if they choose military service, have every chance there that women who are active there will have very good career opportunities up to the general staff, but that in civil service, although there is limited also the possibility, not all opportunities for young women are given. I believe that the voluntary opportunity for civil service really needs to be provided, because I believe that the delivery of civil service to care organisations, to the Red Cross for many young people who play with the idea of getting into a care profession later on, creates an important basis for this and is very beneficial if you really take up this profession. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we must also consider what we can do for blue light organizations as a whole. We need to support these organisations because in many of these areas, such as the Red Cross, we are facing the financial end today and are no longer able to provide the services that we actually need in our civil society. But this also applies to fire brigades, ladies and gentlemen. If we need to maintain a professional fire brigade in all the municipalities of Austria, we could not afford to do so. That is to say, it would be necessary to exempt at least the acquisition of those equipment used for the use of firearms such as these mountain appliances, in order to be able to cut out injuries from the car, from VAT, or the Republic that the public hand is refunding VAT in this area. That would be a very, very important measure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or that we continue with the admissibility of the donations that we have now discussed, and say that all organizations that meet the conditions to obtain the donation seal should also have the opportunity to be supported here so that the free citizen can decide for himself, I support the fire brigade, I support the Red Cross, I support the children's friends, whoever. This is precisely what the citizens, ladies and gentlemen, have to decide for themselves, and I hope that we will take a step further here. To conclude: Col. August Wögingerhat argued that it would be a good idea to evaluate the performance annually. I am also of this opinion, however, add that I would only agree to this measure if it is ensured that all family benefits are evaluated annually and that the care allowance is also adjusted annually.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25160	Mr Hagen is the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25181	Madam President. Minister! High house! I consent, I used to be, at my federal army, also someone who saw the civil service a little bit with Argusaugen. I must confess, my opinion has changed completely in this regard. Today, even after my son has recently done his own civil service in the rescue, I see that with completely different eyes. I have seen how much good can be done here by civil servants, which society can no longer afford for financial reasons in the present day. Civil service is extremely valuable among rescue organizations and in many other areas, old homes and so on. I have also noted positively – and this has been mentioned earlier – that these young people who have spent civilian service during the rescue will then voluntarily stay with these rescue organizations and thus make a huge contribution to society. You can only mention this very, very positive and thank these young people very much. [[He was also in favour of BZÖ and SPÖ representatives.]] I believe that for this reason, too, this increase in financial resources is justified, because these are not really pink. With my son and his colleagues, I have seen it exactly, they really don't have much money at their disposal, they have to buy dinner at lunchtime when they're out there doing their civil service, So you can’t resort to the “Hotel Mama” and still have some costs to bear. I believe that it is therefore justified to raise this amount. However, I would like to say a little critically, after we now have a so-called military minister with the two offices, that Mr Darabos, as far as I am aware, did his civil service in a socialist student home at the time. In my opinion, this is actually an abuse of the whole and should not happen. But, of course, our group welcomes this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25229	Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill is the next speaker. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25251	Madam President. High house! The interest in civil service is freedom of conscience, and all men who, out of their freedom of conscience, do not serve with the weapon, but instead provide civil service are clearly the support of this social system, the support of the welfare state. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Thank you. Many low-cost hours are done here. I just heard from Mr Wöginger that it was 13 000 civilians in 2008. These are large amounts of low-cost hours for the social system, and it was really time to increase the food money and ensure the safety of the legal entities. I am ready to talk about an adaptation at any time. I am for annual valorization, but we Greens are also for the reduction of civil service. A very clear one. There is no need to open up civil service to women, because it is quite clear that we still have to live in a society in which women in particular still have to take on the duties of household, of care, of care. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you don't want that!]] That is why the opening up of civil service to women would be quite, completely counterproductive for the role of women in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25310	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25332	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. We do not increase food money here, but we are regulating the support for the carriers. It is true that, in order to pay the food allowance, the lawyers are obliged to increase the food allowance for civilian servants by means of a regulation of the Ministry of the Interior. This increase would affect non-profit organisations, and therefore we will first compensate for the promotions of non-profit organisations. And then comes the regulation for the increase of the food allowance, both of which are to enter into force at the same time. Depending on the activity of the legal entity, the promotion, the so-called civil service fee, is currently € 580 and is raised to €635, with the other legal entities, where it currently amounts to €390, to €445. In the case of those lawyers who do not have any benefit, In this respect, however, the Federal Government, i.e. the Civil Service Agency, will make a payment, the payment obligation will be reduced from €150 to €95. In this way, the way is free for the regulation of the fees, so to speak, that we can also provide the courts with a framework as to how they have to pay the food fees. The maximum amount will then be 16 € per day; on average or in general it will be 12 € in the future. The Federal Ministry costs about €5.8 million a year. This is made up of additional expenditure of €4.6 million for the grants and less revenue of €1.2 million, because we reduce the payment commitments. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, let me mention something: The Ministry of Interior is awarding the Civil Service Award each year. We honor this with special merits of civil servants in their organizations, i.e., per country we identify a national winner and once a year a federal winner. We had a federal winner this year, who not only proved himself to be a civilian servant but also saved life in a very special way. I am therefore saying this here because you are the multipliers who can stimulate this civil service award in the organisations you are close to. Ladies and gentlemen, motivate your support organizations to call us civil servants who nominate them for this award! I mean, the young men deserve to have their outstanding performance brought before the curtain, so to speak, that they are honoured, that they enjoy media attention, and that their performance is made public as a model for other civil servants and even for young people in society. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I ask you to make this public in your carriers, so that we will receive appropriate nominations for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25389	Next, Mr Singer. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25410	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Fekter has already made a very detailed reference to the content of this Civil Service Law Novelle, so I would just like to say: I welcome the suspension for the individual legal entities and I am pleased that after the increase of the daily fee for ground defenses per 1. In January 2008, the food money for civilians will also be increased, because, ladies and gentlemen, the work of our civil servants is excellent. The excellent achievements of the institutions in our society are often no longer imaginable without civil servants. I myself was able to experience civil servants at the Red Cross and in old-age nursing homes, as well as the fact that civil service is not one-sided performance, but a meaningful activity for young men who are promoting their personal development. Many thanks to all civil servants in our country! They provide essential services, especially for the elderly, the sick and the socially weak. A warm thanks also to the Civil Service Service Agency, which I was able to meet as a competent, unbureaucratic and target-oriented authority, which also forces the participation of civil service obligations in the field of activity or in the areas of action. Another word to the courts: Non-profit organisations depend not only on civil service workers and voluntary helpers, but also on members and financial supporters. In this sense, Vice-chanc Finance Minister Josef Pröll has given an important signal to the ability to donate with the involvement of charitable organizations – and thus also of the Red Cross. Under economically difficult conditions, these organisations need public support in order to be able to perform their tasks in our society. In this context, it is important to ensure that the formal conditions are made in such a way that both civil and organisational solutions are possible. Ladies and gentlemen, with the points raised, important measures are being taken in the sense of a well-functioning social policy. I am very grateful to the Ministers responsible for this: at Federal Minister Dr. Fekter and Vice Chancellor Josef Pröll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25459	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25480	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! It's true: Our civil servants provide truly priceless services to Austrian society. We've already heard it: Civil servants in 930 are involved in the rescue service, in the care of the elderly, as well as in working with children and young people, as well as in environmental protection – which is also not unimportant. Civil service is now an indispensable pillar in the social state of Austria. Much of what is of course for us – for example, the school lot that helps our children safely across the street – would not be possible without the use of civilian servants. That is why I would like to thank all civil servants from this point of view for their commitment, for their work, really cordially and sincerely. But the young men are only a group of civil service partnerships; without the professional work of the 930 civil service organizations, Austria, as I mean, would be much poorer. Unfortunately, we often view the work of these organisations as self-evident. Everyone thinks it is normal that in the middle of the night or at the weekend the rescue comes immediately when they are called, it is normal that elderly or needy people are cared for in professional facilities around the clock. State and society benefit enormously from civil service, but also young men and civil service organisations can only win. Ideally, the civil service partnership means a win-win situation for all. Young adults learn the value of solidarity in work for others and for society. The organisations can, by civil servants, at least partly regulate the often missing work of volunteers. The Austrian civil servants and the organisations in which they work together play an enormous role in the social state of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am really glad that all five parties represented in this House will agree to the necessary and correct increase in the food money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25531	The next speaker is Mr Obernoster. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25553	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it has been said by my previous speakers. Over 30 years of civil service, this has proved successful. This adjustment is necessary; approximately 12,800 civilians were present in 2008. On the other hand, there will be around 22,000 young people in service with the weapon – and one will also see that there will also be adjustments in this area. We are not the opinion of the colleague of the Green Group to shorten civil service, because we know how important this is. I think you can use the saying here again, so to speak: Sometime in life one should also say: What can I do for the state?, you don't always have to say: What can the state do for me? This is part of a social state, which is part of our security. As I am currently on the subject of "security" and I am referring to the topic of "Asylwerber-Erstaufstelle", I would like to say – and everyone who knows me knows how I am on this issue – that: This is not an issue of Carinthia, it is not an issue of Styria, it is an issue that concerns all of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Darmann: Against the party line of the ÖVP Carinthia!]] I would also like to say quite clearly: In terms of security, we are not only responsible for individual states, even if we come from there and represent the interests of them, but as the National Council under the Constitution we are obliged to do so! I would like to point out that the number of asylum applications has fallen from 39 000 to about 12 000. There are contracts with all the federal states. If all the federal states were to comply with these agreements and if we together were to try to get this issue under control – and I would really like to congratulate you, Mrs Minister, on how you are doing this – I do not think we need a new first place in Austria. I'm absolutely convinced of that. I have to say one more thing: It must be rejected what happened in Carinthia, namely that the asylum seekers come out of another camp and somewhere on the Alm are sent and then disappear from there and run unattended around the country. That is not how the state's security policy should look! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] We support the fact that the people who come to Austria and seek asylum here come where they are under supervision, and that we bear the responsibility for this, and that this should be done to the extent that the country bears. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25622	Mrs Lueger is now speaking. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25643	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Civil service The law was passed in 1986, but the acceptance that the civil servants have today and which has been expressed unanimously here in the House today did not always exist to this extent. In the past, they were smiled, but it was very quickly recognized that these young people in particular are taking on a central role in society, in the service of rescue organizations, fire brigades, social and care facilities and charitative organizations. The services provided by these young men are a solid social support and have become an indispensable part of civil society. Acceptance in the population and the constantly increasing number of areas of activity show the great value and recognition of their performance for the general public. The legal authorities of these bodies shall ensure that civil servants are properly committed. This term “adequately” was once a point of discussion of several years, where, as a result of the Constitutional Court, the 6 € paid out per day at that time is clearly too little, and he issued an guidance, according to which civil servants should receive 13,60 € as a food allowance in the future, which corresponds to that amount received by the military service. The day money for ground defenses is already with 1. However, there was no regulation in this respect for civil servants in January 2008. Faced with this great inequality, it was Federal Councillor Albrecht Konecny, who was very concerned that there would be a change in civil service law. And gratefully, because of his initiative, it is guaranteed that civil servants will come to a higher food money earlier than planned. The present proposal, as Mrs Minister has already said, regulates, on the one hand, the increased promotion of the federal government to the legal entities and, on the other hand, the provision for those associations which do not receive support to reduce the remuneration to be paid to the federal government in order to reduce the additional costs for the legal entities. These young men do great work. Thank you very much for that. Thanks alone, however, is not enough. In this respect, I should like to welcome your speech, Mrs Federal Minister, in addition to the motion for a resolution, which we have unanimously adopted in committee, in which you reaffirmed that you will adopt the regulation as soon as possible or even at the same time as the law enters into force. I would like to thank you in advance for this. We will, of course, also agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25685	Mr Plessl has now come to speak. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25707	Thank you, Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! First, I would like to make it clear: Mr Lausch made a distinction in his first speech – unfortunately, he is not here in plenary now – with the representatives who practice the police profession, in good, committed police officers who can be found at the FPÖ, because they only benefit from a service exemption, and in the others. These are supposed to be lazy because they take up an out-of-service and the withdrawal of remuneration. I asked myself the question: What reasons does a Member have for making such a statement? I have found the following causes or motives: First of all, we were both top candidates at the 2008 National Council election in Weinviertel. But we have never – and I would like to say that quite clearly – talked to each other at an election event, yet we have had a conversation so far. As he can make a distinction between people, I'm sluggish. The next reason for this statement is events in the district of Gänserndorf. In my district of Gänserndorf, several FPÖ party exclusion procedures have been carried out. The FPÖ-Bezirksobmann and four other district members were excluded from the party. [[Call the FPÖ: That's not true!]] - That's right! – The successor has even resigned. The interesting thing about this is why it has been excluded: This was the inclusion of a BZÖ politician into the FPÖ. This is not my statement, but the statement of the Lord that has been excluded. [[Abg. May. Stadler: On the matter!]] I also have the media reports here, where you can read the whole thing. But I still don't think that was the reason why he let himself go of such a statement. [[Abg. May. Stadler: On the matter!]] I believe that the real reason for this is the lack of knowledge of the legislation. Then: In § 17 Civil Service Law, it is quite clear what an executive can do. There are two possibilities: the exemption and the out-of-service. The fact is: I have therefore taken up an out-of-service job because I believe that I can better help my colleagues if I actively cooperate here in Parliament and make my views available to the Committee on Internal Affairs. Now I come to the real topic: The increase in food charges for civilians is an important part of the continuation of civil service. Especially in my federal state Lower Austria has greatly increased the number of civil service declarations from 1 638 in 2005 to 2 518 in 2007. This is an increase of almost 54 percent in two years. Many civil servants are active in the rescue sector, in the assistance of the disabled and in the care of the elderly and in the nursing sector. However, I would particularly like to mention here that by taking over the costs, the federal government has ensured that there is no additional financial burden on these organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25767	Mr Scheibner is now speaking. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25788	Madam President. I should not like to comment on the statements made by my previous speaker, for otherwise he will come out here again and tell us the whole thing a second time, and we do not want to do that. I would rather address Mr Obernoster's contribution to the debate and say: His speech has already surprised me a little. But if you look at the results of the elections of the ÖVP in Carinthia, then his statements here are not surprising, because at the party line you act upon, so removed from the wishes of the population, it is no wonder that you have no voters in Carinthia. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You should be more concerned that you implement the clear provisions of the law, that asylum is only to be granted where there are real asylum grounds, and that where abuse is being carried out, there is to be moved quickly, and that it is also to prevent asylum seekers from becoming criminal and thus a danger to the population. That is, Mr President, the task of a national councillor, no matter what the federal state he comes from. This also applies to the Austrian People's Party in Carinthia. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If I'm already with the People's Party... [[Abg. Hörl:... stateman!]] What does “stateman ” mean? It is simply necessary to ensure that asylum seekers who are punishable do not become a danger to the population. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The aim is to implement asylum procedures quickly and to give real support to those who need asylum, but to move quickly those who misuse the right to asylum. That would be a sensible solution. Mr Wöginger, the first speaker of the ÖVP, said something really surprising to me, and I must say: There is no question at all that civil service – and there is a consensus about it – has become a need to recognise the services of civil servants and that civil service has become a real contribution to the functioning of the social system for the most part – there are also functions where one can question the sense of meaning; but that one goes so far, dear colleague Wöginger – and you, as a Member of the ÖVP and as the first speaker – did, that one no longer realizes the constitutional situation, according to which civil service can be changed in the Constitution, of course, if one wants to be a military service, I would not have thought possible. It is also the provision that you do not receive a gun and no hunting licence, not a relic from the time of the Civil Service Commission, but a derogation made as a substitute for the verification of conscience. This is still in the Constitution, Mr Wöginger. Please read in the Federal Constitution! [[Abg. Wöginger: The Conscience Test No Longer!]] There is no longer a verification of conscience, but civil service is only allowed where the civil servant is for reasons of conscience – and not for certain reasons! – reject the service with the weapon. And in order to picture this accordingly, you have – in your time of government – written into the law that precisely these conditions must be implemented accordingly. And as long as this is the constitutional situation, namely that civil service is a military service and is regarded as an exception to conscience... – Dear friend, learn history and the constitution once, then speak here! [[Abg. Wöginger: That is what you have arranged, not we!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: 1986 was still blue in the government!]] It was not the Commission's abolition in 1986. It's a nonsense! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As long as this is the case, one should work as an Austrian People's Party, which is always in favour of national defence and home protection, to ensure that it remains the same. We have a different opinion. We say that we could rethink the military service as a whole, and that we should ensure that there are incentive systems for getting sufficient volunteers, both for military service and for social services, in order to fulfil the necessary tasks. That would be an interesting approach! Then we no longer need the fiction of the grounds of conscience and the weaponry regime. And then, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, we do not need to discuss it in a strange way either by saying here that this is an old role model, and here criticizing that women are not allowed to serve as civilians. It's an ancient role model when you say: Service and civil service for men and everything else for women! We want the service to the Austrian Federal Army on a voluntary basis, and we also want civil service as a social service on a voluntary basis, as a service for social services here in Austria. These would be interesting approaches that we should think about instead of giving any odds of ourselves and doing strange historical and constitutional revisions here, because it is not right now that one also makes a contribution to the defence of the state.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25904	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 43 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 43 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 8.) [[21:35:34]] 5. Point First reading: Request from Members of Parliament Karl Oellinger, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (ALVG) (12/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25971	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate immediately. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e25998	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on Mr Graf or in the debate on the reply to the question, one of the colleagues from the Freedom Party said: Don't we have something more important to discuss? [[Abg. Bucher: We said that too!]] I do not believe that there is anything more important now, because the question we have discussed about the President of the Council or his office is, I believe, a very important one, even for reasons of political hygiene in this House, but I must admit that I considered some of the contributions necessary in the debate on the questioning process, with the exception of Mr Tamandel's contribution, where I do not agree on all points, but I must admit that this was a very clear and courageous commitment to democracy and the rule of law, but not only to the rule of law, but also to her own political conviction. But back to the question: What's important, what's not important? And in this context, I wonder if you, ladies and gentlemen, know what unemployed people in Austria receive on average in compensation. 25 € per day is the average unemployment benefit. Emergency aid providers receive an average of € 20 per day. Female emergency workers receive less than €20, which is €16 to €17 – and you should be able to live from it. Now I'm telling you a second, ladies and gentlemen, and I'm back at what's important or not important: If you have become unemployed in Austria – and there are too many who have been doing so for years – then you won't get a cent or a euro in the following years, because the valorization of unemployment benefit and emergency aid has been abolished in the framework of so-called savings packages of the federal government. In other words, a person who has become unemployed or an emergency worker in 2000 will receive only €20 today. No more cents! In this context, I already appreciate the debate we held three days before the end of the last legislative period, where some improvements have been made for pensioners. I think that's good, and we've agreed to a lot. At that time a one-time supplement for pensioners was decided. A heating allowance was also decided on for some pensioners. There have been improvements in tax reform for a number of groups, tax reductions and much more. Only: There is a single group in Austria that has not received a one-time surcharge or a heating grant or anything else as a cost compensation from this legislator here in the house. And these are the unemployed people. At the same time, you know and we know that unemployed people in Austria have one of the lowest net replacement rates in Europe. In other countries, it is quite common for people who become unemployed to receive 70 percent, 80 percent, 90 percent of their previous net earnings. One thing is certain: In countries where there is 90 percent or 80 percent of net earnings – in the Scandinavian countries – unemployment is not greater. 55 percent are in Austria, and you, ladies and gentlemen, are all responsible for the fact that this group of people who receive 55 percent – in case of emergency aid even less – does not even receive a cost compensation! I say it again: Among them are people who have received this unemployment benefit or emergency aid – for some it changes; if they have attended training, they have been returning to unemployment benefit – for ten years now, and they have not received a cent more than then! I want to hear one of you who says he thinks this is right! I hope that this will not happen in the debate that follows, and I hope you will agree with us, no matter what the political group, that at least the valorization, but also the increase in the net replacement rate, should and should be decided. This is especially true of valorization, which does not cost much money. Of course, the increase in net replacement rates would cost more. But I think, especially in times like those in which we have to expect that instead of 250 000 unemployed people in the next few years, 300 000, 400 000 or 500 000 unemployed people in that country must live from this minimum money, we should not start the debate: Do we have to pay them less or stay the same? Do you have to give them more? – It does us well, and it does these people well, not just for social policy reasons.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26037	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26058	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Oellinger, we are of course well aware of these points which you have raised, and I am convinced that we also need to talk about them. We must be aware of the fact that, in particular, long-term unemployed people are really affected by poverty. This proposal has not been tabled for the first time; we will certainly have to talk about it in committee. However, I also think that there will have to be a bunch of other measures in the future if you look at the numbers that are now forecast for us, which unfortunately more unemployed people will have to expect; I hope not in the number you have addressed, but it will certainly become more by a few percent. [[Abg. Oils: You're welcome!]] Nor should we talk about percentages, but these are people, these are fates that you always address when you speak of 300,000 people. In my opinion, each individual is too much. I believe that, in the field of labour market policy, it is absolutely necessary to take a very serious look at the fact that the long-term unemployment/long-term unemployment you are talking about can be prevented from having to invest a lot of resources in labour market policy, too, in measures that are against it. There are also good measures in this area, such as the socio-economic enterprises, such as non-profit employment projects, which I believe are doing excellent work in this area and in which dedicated key workers are active, which can best assist people who, after long unemployment, are often financially, but also mentally and financially in need, on the way to the labour market, in reintegration. There are also good concepts, good fields of work with which these people are being occupied. There, of course, you can always think about what would be even better and what you can do even better. But I think that a very big point will be to prevent long-term unemployment/landtime unemployment so that these people do not have to endure in poverty. However, there will also have to be a number of other measures to make our social system poor – in order to refer to this word. A very important point will be to prevent unemployment itself. If one assumes that the economic crisis will unfortunately still produce many unemployed people, it will be important to keep people at work. Minister of Social Affairs Rudolf Hundstorfer is currently working with the social partners and with the trade unionists in high pressure on a innovative short-term work model, with which one does not try to release people – as this is not a nice new German word – but to really keep them in the businesses. I think that is a very, very important point. As far as I am now aware, an important part of this new short-term model will be to invest mainly in the qualification for the time when people should or must work shorter. I think this is very important, too, because when you look at which people are most affected by unemployment... [[Abg. Oils: It's all right! But there will be more unemployed!]] Most of them are really affected by those people who have least education. I believe that it is important to use this time, which one must insist on in short work, to qualify for further qualification, so that one has better opportunities in the labour market in the future. I believe that this is a very, very important step which we should also discuss during this whole discussion. In order to take one step further forward, it will also be important in the future to talk about a reasonable wage policy, because it is important that people who work do not drift into poverty traps. We all know that there are too many so-called Working Poor. In this direction, too, we will need to make every effort together so that people, when they work, earn enough and then, when they get into unemployment – for whatever reason – do not slip into the poverty trap. I think that's where we're all demanded. People expect this from us, and I think they are right to expect it. I am very excited about the discussion in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26130	Mrs Steibl is now speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26152	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Oellinger, with all appreciation, but in the explanatory statement on your request, from my point of view, one could understand a wording very negatively, where you say: “Unemployment insurance law contains a whole series of provisions whose only objective is to keep the level of pay for unemployed people as low as possible.” – Quotes. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] I think the legal measures for unemployed Austrians have the goal of supporting and helping in an emergency situation, and they do. [[Abg. Kickl: You can take the counter evidence today!]] [[Abg. Oils: Only conditional!]] So, a clear one. No to your statement in the application! The aim, or the objective of this Federal Government, is to look at and take action, also to force job creation and job creation. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, the message I hear!]] Of course, there is a potential for improvement, which is already clear. But I also think that you must agree with me that the current government programme is very, very many measures to address this issue and to catch people in an emergency situation even during these times of crisis. [[Abg. Oils: Not for the unemployed!]] I also think that it is particularly important to look at the point of returning to the work process, i.e. the efficient placement, rapid reintegration into the labour market, and also measures to raise the level of qualification, that is to say, continuing training in order to offer labour market opportunities to those concerned. [[Abg. Oillinger:... give a job!]] But there are also many other measures, such as the minimum-security elements or the simplification of unemployment insurance law. I think we're on a good path here and that we're all taking this seriously in the government and in the parties. [[Abg. Oils: Inflation compensation, Mrs Colleague!]] I am already looking forward to the negotiations in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I think you can get in there, and I wish the Greens would agree to what we are working together, and also to support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26268	Mr Kickl is now speaking. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26289	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I was very pleased to see the agenda on the agenda that this request by the Greens, which concerns the valorization of benefits in unemployment insurance, is on the agenda: on the one hand, because the matter is important and it is really high time to become active for this disadvantaged group at last and not only to keep talking about how it happened again just before, and on the other hand, because, for me, it is a small silver strip on the horizon, which shows that, in addition to your current main and favourite employment, you are simply setting up a system of contemplation and a system of motivating here from within, but also to see other things. [[Abg. Oils: Have an idea!]] I'm very glad. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem as a whole, which can be described as saving this federal government from the wrong spot. This false spot is now also a wide range of things, which are about valorizations, which are always full-bodied, even more full-bodied and next time a piece of it is promised more fully, with all of which are basically clear about how necessary this is always – but each time the money is missing exactly for these things – and where we cannot describe the situation before which we are then standing as a social cold. The result is always the same: that, in fact, those who have always been among the disadvantaged, by these shortcomings, by this half-heartedness and by this inconsistency are still de facto in their bad position. They leave the people in the constant rain, because of the beautiful words with which you make yourself here and determine how important it is, there will be no one unemployed who is really in a difficult situation, even about a interpretation better. But we do not only have this problem in the area of unemployment benefit. We also have no valorization in the care allowance – although it is always promised again and again, we do not have it there either – and there is no valorization in the care services. You have to leave this: They are at least consistent in a negative sense. But especially in the present time, in the wrong place and in the wrong place, it is being cracked, while for all other things, for a lot of displeasure that is in it, actually, very, very easily handled with large sums of money. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we have the problematic situation that the loss of purchasing power, which affects more or less everyone, does not stop even before the people who have to live by their “unemployed”. For us, of course, it is quite clear, even as a social home party – we are quite aware of this claim – so it is absolutely clear to us that it is necessary to counter this situation and that we need a valorization – as in the area of care money, where this is necessary, and as in the area of family benefits. That is why we will, of course, find our support. I don't know if one can finally follow the meaningful words with actions; there is a little time for that. I mean, the unemployed people in Austria deserved this. The situation is really anything but rosy for this population group. When you see that unemployment benefit is about €722 and thus clearly below the poverty line, and if you look at – rightly addressed – how much of a last-hand relationship remains – what is the starting point for calculating unemployment benefit and the amount? – then Austria, as a rich country, can still be grateful to God, but still cut off from other countries in this European Union. However, if you look at the problem of unemployment, which unfortunately will grow, it is expected, and it will grow not least because the framework conditions are very, very difficult, but it will also grow because of the fact that the Federal Government did not do the homework years ago with which to achieve a certain compensation of the situation – if you look at unemployment, you also have to talk openly about the need to consider: What about the problem of long-term unemployed foreigners? What about the people who have come to Austria: with the claim to be a host worker – and who, if there is a certain right to claim, undergo a strange change and suddenly become a host worker? We have a different attitude here, of course, and then there is another end to the common relationship with the Greens, because of course we also want to argue for a differentiation of the system and have a differentiated approach, because it is not that we have something to give, and we, in our view, are primarily responsible to our own people as responsible Austrian politicians. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have wanted, salaries that actually deserve this name are enough for you to be able to live decently on it, of course, this must also apply to the level of unemployment benefit. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make another sentence with which I return to what I have begun. You know, I think it is excellent and I think it is right that Mrs. Col. Glavischnig – not because we are so evil and the liberties would have prevented anything from doing so, but because the electorate has so decided – is going to leave her position as President of this House. I would urge you, if you really take the voter's will seriously, to finally take note of this and finally stop with your dirty campaign, which is currently your main activity!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26329	Mr Kickl, I would like to give you a call for an order for the accusation'smooth campaign'. The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26358	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If you have listened to the opinions of the individual Members of the various political groups, we all agree that you should keep unemployment as low as possible, and then, if someone becomes unemployed, you should re-integrate it into the labour market as soon as possible. I think there is consensus here in the House. But this request made by Mr Oellinger is not new. He was also introduced in autumn 2007, and after that he was repeatedly postponed by the coalition parties. It is likely that this will be the same now, Mr Oellinger. I can obtain some of this request. It is incomprehensible to everyone that the calculation of entitlements to unemployment benefit uses outdated contribution bases, moreover in relation to which inflation is not valorised, and these recognised benefit entitlements are reduced in value each year. I can already get rid of this request because it is quite simply a matter of doing something about it, so that people who are unemployed or get helpless grants do not slip further into poverty; no question! However, I also think it is important to point out that there is a corresponding difference between unemployed income, unemployment benefit and income, i.e. that income, which is so to speak, as a minimum wage, so that there is also an incentive to work. When I look at that from 1. The minimum wage is €1,000 in January 2009, and that is too little for me. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You have a similar proposal with 7 € or 7.25 € per hour, which means that you will be about 1 300 € in full employment, as is the case with our proposal. This already gives a corresponding difference, which is actually good, and we should also work on it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like to say to Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig: We are all aware of the problem, and there are several wheels that need to be turned on to prevent long-term unemployed; if there is less work, you have to work with short-time work and so on. But it's also important to keep people in the businesses, and that's something I'm doing. If today someone falls out of the labour market and, we say, is a little over 50 years old, this person has little chance in the labour market. Little is done, and the businesses are not willing to take up these people either. This also belongs to work. Ladies and gentlemen, an annual adjustment of the unemployment benefit to the contribution base should be welcomed in principle, and benefit providers should not be pushed into poverty. It is also important, however, that there is cost-effective balance, such as in Carinthia with a one-time payment, which is often criticized. But if you go here and prefer a pension payment by two months, which then makes up grossly 149 €, but net you get 49 € less out, then that's not in the mind of the inventor. At least there you have to raise the income tax limit by so much, so that someone gets what is grossly paid out also net. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26414	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 12/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[21:59:07]] 6. Point First reading: Request of Deputies Dr. Gabriela Moser, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Telecommunications Act (Telecommunications Act 2003 – TKG 2003, BGBl. I No. 70/2003, as last amended by Federal Law BGBl I No. 133/2005) is amended (13/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26455	We're on the 6th. The item on the agenda and the debate. President. — The debate is closed. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26479	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In Upper Austria: 16 000 signatures. In Vienna: Protest against cell phone mast in Hadersdorf. In Parliament during the last legislative periods: Mobile petitions, 4000 signatures, 5,000 signatures, 6,000 signatures, all certified; National Councillors of each political group. Today we are starting back where we have already been in 1999, for which the basics of the Telecommunications Act were laid in 1997. My Appeal It reads: Please extend the Telecommunications Act by the aspect that when mobile telephone is provided to the population, the preservation of life, health, well-being and property of people must also be considered! They know for themselves, and it is already relatively clear in science – the Supreme Council of Sanity documenting this – that the precautionary principle must be applied that precautionary limits should apply, that overall, both when choosing the location of masts and when handling the mobile phone, the best children should not use them at all. Think of the appeals of the doctor's chamber, look into the individual ordinations also in Vienna, where there are posters that point out! We thus have a communication technology, which can partly become torture for electrosensitive people. I'll tell you a case; it's supposed to be impressive. In Linz, the attic is expanded, new bedrooms are built, for roadside it was not possible before; main road, traffic noise. People invest in expansion, more than 1 million schilling at the time. Then bedroom on the back of the garden. They're trying. Sleep disorders. They're trying to figure out why: There is peace, there is better air, there are good atmospheric conditions, building technology and baubiological everything is fine. These people then get a knife-technically decorated person who finds out: The adjacent transmission systems significantly influence the sleep quality in this room; significant measurement values are determined. These people have already invested over 1 million schillings! But they still want the sleep quality. You are now obliged again to take additional money in your hand to shield the room to repaint it to earth to buy new curtains, so to speak, to really shield it from this electromagnetic radiation. After this large investment, an additional €3 000 was needed. After this shielding new measurement: Not even a tenth of the values. Test Can you sleep again? - Yes. Please, this is a daily example. I can prove it to you at any time. And you yourself here in this hall are responsible for the people without additional €3 000, without additional investment, must finally return to their right to a healthy sleep. That is why we urgently believe that these aspects of health protection, well-being, including the protection of property – houses are devalued by transmission masts, I only say – for the first time in the Telecommunications Act. You all know from your work – whether at local or local level – that there are very, very many citizens' initiatives, protest groups against the establishment of transmission masts, which have been warned of such transmission facilities by the examples I have mentioned to you. You know that child gardens in particular, that hospitals are also affected, and that – I have also conducted discussions to the top of social security – it is clear that we must act in advance that we must keep the health burden low in advance. Precautionary limits therefore recommend the Supreme Council of Sanity as well as a careful choice of location. The fact that these aspects also need to be taken into account in the implementation of modern telecommunications technology must already be said by the pure mind of the house. And so today – just as in the last period, in the previous period, in the previous period, as already in 1997 – my plea. Now we have several studies – I only mention the REFLEX study, Adlkofer, an international research project – that prove to us very well that it is politically necessary to take these precautions, because I do not think it is politically responsible in any way that people who cannot afford to do so are particularly vulnerable to health. I would like to give you further examples during the next debate and hope for your support so that we can very soon discuss this proposal in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26544	Next, Mr. Ing. Gartlehner. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26565	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on Mr Moser's argument. In principle, these claims or obligations are already included in the TKG. On the background information on health concerns: The current limit values have been set by the WHO, developed on a scientific basis, as I have been told, and are intended to help people to ensure health protection. We have already observed the precautionary aspect here as regards the limit values. The value determined as a limit value was reduced by 50, which does not, of course, ensure that very electrosensitive people cannot still get a problem in individual cases. I think that if one wants or needs to put in place measures here, by the Ministry of Health, the Council of Sanity, it would have to come up with new limit values. We will, however, discuss this in more detail in the Committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26595	Now comes Mrs Mag. Hakl speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26619	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Moser, I also believe that there are people with greater sensitivity to electromagnetic radiation, and I also appreciate it sincerely if they have problems due to mobile radiation. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You have to do something about it!]] Similarly, there are people who are extremely sensitive to rail noise, especially when they have a railway line directly in mind. Then these disturbances are much greater. These are people who are particularly sensitive to rail noise: Skin rashes, catastrophic conditions. These individuals are very sorry. However, just as I can't forbid rail transport in Austria, I want to turn off mobile communications in Austria. My brother has a heavy spring allergy. I cannot, therefore, ban all spring beds and their sale in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Your brother can buy another spring bed? On the other hand, you can't get away from the cell phones!]] The big problem is, Mrs Colleague: An incredibly low limit value was prescribed in Salzburg. You know that. The fact is that in Salzburg the Swiss Federal Office for Communications carried out a review of the “Salzburger Milliwatts” in February 2002. Results were: At eight of the 13 stations selected by lot, the Salzburg evaluation value is exceeded by up to a factor of 40 by 1 milliwatt. The analyses show that in the case of modern GSM networks in the urban area, the immissions of the residents of transmission plants are between 10 and 200 milliwatts per square meter, et cetera. That is, we have this low limit in a city area, but if mobile phones are to work, they will not be observed. Professor Rüdiger himself, whom I personally do not know, – I cannot imagine as wiser than all scientists; I do not know one and the other, has withdrawn one of your own quoted studies. There was a hearing in front of the Council for Science Ethics of the University of Vienna. That's not any body, it's not anyone! I'm not overruled! As a result, Professor Rüdiger withdrew the study, and it was noted that the lawyer belonging to the Council had not voted in favour of it because he declared himself caught up in the mobile sector. These studies have been and will be extremely questionable. But there are a lot of other major studies – and this is, of course, with attention, and as soon as there is scientific action, it is our deepest responsibility to act here. There is a large study in Germany; it was carried out in the years 2002 to 2008; Critical Path (Task € 17 million. Half-financing federal government, half-financing industry, where the research level – the result – is: The results so far show that the initial concerns about health risks could not be confirmed. The comprehensive research results of the DMF have also not given any new indications of the health effects that have not yet been considered. I quote: In accordance with other international bodies – WHO, ICNIRP – it can be found that the existing limit values and the underlying protection concepts are not called into question. - Quote. These are studies of an order of magnitude which we cannot afford in Austria; six years of studies with the said result. As Mrs Moser is constantly quoting the Supreme Council on Sanity, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Supreme Council of Sanity itself has been kept in its current recommendation of spring 2008, under point 1 – I quote – that, following the current scientific reviews on mobile phones, there is currently no secure scientific evidence of health damage to humans. Indications of long-term health effects of exposure also below the indicative values were recently compiled by a group of researchers. Bioinitiative 4. However, there is no consensus on the evaluation of the research results or on the appropriate measures. - Quote. Mrs Moser, on these foundations we cannot hinder such an important technology. I am not at your disposal to prescribe limit values which are not even sustainable in practice in the event of maintenance and functioning of mobile phones; I do not want to lie to the population in this way. I'd rather sit down and try to get scared. I'm going to ask you to join us at last.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26672	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26693	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! That is another typical request, which comes so to say, with seed pouts, but where, if you look at them, you can't say the reason, then you can't say so simple anymore, it doesn't matter much anyway. Mrs Moser, if you would like to see cell phone masts dismantled and no new ones put in place, you must also write them in your request. If you no longer want to be mobile telephoned in Austria, then make a request – and then go ahead with good example, Mrs. Colleague, and give off your phones. I see you walking around from the greens on the courses in a tour with the phones on the ear. There is no point in discussing limit values and the like here, which is in the Committee anyway. In any case, I find the last sentence of your statement of reasons, which reads as follows: "At the same time, the need for ever-increasing access to telecommunications services throughout Austria – especially in rural areas – should be stressed." No new masts, that is, especially in rural areas: Weakening the infrastructure and no more mobile phones! In addition, I believe that what the Telecommunications Act and the like are about to do is really important. In this context, I should just like to point out the issues of spam or added value. Especially young people and very many single earners are often pushed into debt by mobile network operators. – Or on the subject of data protection in the purchase of mobile phones, where, for example, an untrained media market vendor has to give the entire account data and the like. In this context, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. Next, he looks like he's coming up with squats, but in reality, he's got it in himself. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is very good – also for reasons of political hygiene – that the voters have made sure that an untadeled man like Dr. Martin Graf is the third President of the National Council and no longer a left-wing Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26750	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputy Jury. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26772	Thank you, Madam President. High house! Mrs Dr. Moser, I am very glad that you have made your request of December 2004, the request made by the BZO that you submit our request of 4. In December 2007, i.e. a request from the BZÖ, almost made the same word. [[Abg. Weinzinger: There has not yet been the BZÖ!]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] As to the health of our children – this is our future – I am with you, Mrs. Dr. Moser. And written to the other three parties in the main book, i.e. the government parties and the FPÖ: You can't deal with a sensitive health issue the way you do it out here. Mrs Mag. Hakl, when you talk about this study from Salzburg from 2002: Do you know what the year 2002 means in the field of telecommunications? - That's stone time! The fact that you're quoting from here today is a little bit cool. There are a number of experts, such as the Federal Ministry of Health or the Federal Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. In this context, I should also like to refer to the Supreme Council of Sanity or to the Federal Institute for Radiation Protection. However, no one feels responsible to check the electromagnetic fields in Austria on their effects or to protect the Austrian population from electromagnetic rays. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Depressions, allergies, premature unemployment due to incapacity for work are the result, so to speak, of the output of this irrational policy. I therefore call on all the political groups here in Parliament not to make this important point as to the future of our children ridiculous.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26825	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 13/A to the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology. [[22:18:13]] 7. Point First reading: Request by Mr Dr. Gabriela Moser, colleagues in a federal law amending the driving licence law (14/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26865	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Moser, the applicant, is Mrs. Dr. Moser. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e26894	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Many of you read papers – and many of you read every day about traffic accidents, and unfortunately almost all of you need to notice daily that the main cause of traffic accidents is excessive or unadapted speed. At the same time, where we unfortunately have to take note of the customs duty on the roads, we in this Parliament have the opportunity to set in motion measures to improve road safety, measures based above all on the precautionary principle: the means of the driver's license. It is really strange that Minister Gorbach was the first in this regard – the Austrian name: Point driver's license – introduced the element that is the main cause of traffic accidents, that is speed crossing, inappropriate speed. You will find no point crime, no premise crime. – As a normal person, you can really touch your head as a logical person! I have already reported myself very, very critically at the time in the debates, and the answer was, the liberals – at that time, I think, nor the liberals – or the BZÖ do not want to. Similarly, there was the answer at the time that the ÖVP did not want to, because the driving licence is already withdrawn when the maximum speed is exceeded of more than 50 km/h. – Yes, apologise, this is really a wahnwitz when you push 50 km/h above the allowed maximum speed! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] If I travel 40 km/h or 45 km/h above the allowed speed in the local area, this has no consequences as a predominant offence. That's completely wrong! At 50 km/h I lose the driver's license, at 45 km/h in excess it has no relevance as a preeminent offence. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I get a fine when I'm caught, but it's not prepared for the recurrence. And that's our problem! The traffic rowdys, the quick drivers are mostly repeaters, and the best way to fight repeaters is to get the priority system; I have to quote the former Minister of Transport. – Since Wahnwitz is still a reality, since we here in no way take into account the worst crime that exists on Austrian roads, we want to make this Wahnwitz an initiative with this proposal in any case a story. I hope you will support us, because there is general consensus that human life should be preserved. This is the highest task, defined in the Austrian federal constitution; I could well quote it to you. The main task of the State is therefore to protect people, to protect the population politically. There is the daily murder on the street, because a family dies every week on the street, and most of it is due to excessive speed! [[Abg. Riepl: And b’s open they are still there!]] And that this is not the case with appropriate measures – I am not talking about penalties at all, I am just talking about the system of priorities – that must belong to the past! We are at the European average, unfortunately in the back field, what the level of punishment is going on in the case of traffic offences that call for human life. – Look for Italy, look at France, look at Germany, look at our eastern neighbours! There are systems that are far more rigorous! [[Abg. Mayerhofer: The drivers don't have money anymore, Mrs. Deputies!]] [[Abg. Grandruck:... Italy do not compare with Central Europe!]] I'm not asking you to look at Scandinavia. There people's lives really count, there's the zero vision, which leads to traffic death. – We strive for them on the paper, but unfortunately on the other side in the paper of the premise system still lacks this offence, just as another important offence, namely the offence calling with the mobile phone at the wheel. – I would like to tell you a little bit about this. A colleague of mine is disabled. He crosses the Herrenstraße in Linz and leaves the Trottoir. He climbs or rolls down to the roadway and finds an intermediate room between two cars. As he rolls through there, he drives a parked car back and gets closer by the way. It's very, very close to the fact that the disabled is crushed in his wheelchair. Then, of course, the person concerned screams, and passers-by reacts as well – and what turns out? – The rear-driving passenger car is controlled by a person who telephones with the mobile phone during parking. I can't! That's not possible, so I'm still appealing to the end: Reform the control system, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27016	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27037	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, especially Mrs. Dr. Moser! I am convinced that increasing road safety on Austria's roads is a major concern for all of us, and the evaluation of the priority system is included in the government programme. The priority system has already been evaluated by the Transport Safety Board. The results are currently being analysed in the Ministry of Infrastructure, and the presentation, it has been announced, is expected to take place in February. In a first reaction, Federal Minister Doris Buresaber already presented first measures at the turn of the year, because it has been shown that many people are simply too little informed about the pre-eminence system and it is therefore important that this pre-eminent system becomes more known and the more conscious stone is created. More knowledge alone often leads to more sensitivity. However, a focus must certainly be on the second most prominent crime, namely the lack of child care. It's really very sad: From 2006 to 2007 alone, the number of unsecured children in the car has more than doubled, and we know that almost 20 percent of all children are completely unsecured in the car. – Enlightenment is a central approach, and therefore Federal Minister Doris Bures has already announced that in future adults will be offered a special child safety seminar instead of the traffic safety training prescribed so far in such cases. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the task of drawing up an appropriate concept has already been given information. The most common predominance crime, unfortunately still the alcohol at the tax, is regarded by many as a cavalier crime, but we know – and I think we agree on this here in the High House – that too much alcohol at the tax is a crime that many innocent people cost life, and it must also be suspected as such. Especially driving in the range of 0.5 to 0.79 permill is unfortunately still considered to be tolerant, although even small amounts of alcohol reduce the rate of reaction and affect perception. – Again, sanctions alone do not always lead to a change in behaviour, so a transport coaching is absolutely necessary. The same applies to telephone calls at the tax: Much too many accidents are due to telephone calls at the tax, so the penalty has also been raised sensitively. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! You see, it is worked most intensively for safety on Austrian roads.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27088	Mr Ferdinand Maier. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27113	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am now in a difficult situation because I have been preparing for it, because Mrs Moser's request invites us to have a broader discussion on what the question of safety and its proposals is about to lead to, and now Dr. Stumblingly, I have been ‘stretched’, we should talk only two minutes. – My previous speaker did not stop and spoke for 4 minutes. I would suggest the following: I try to stay with these two minutes and I will move the discussion into the committee, where we will then discuss this very intensively, Mrs. Moser, because I believe – let me just say that in principle – that we should be doing with a little bit of an eyeset, to what extent we really are calling at the tax, and I assume that you think that telephone call without a means of communication, in which accident statistics have such bags – I would have liked to see these accident statistics – or also what the question of speeding up. As you imagine it, this would actually mean an incredible red tape because the anonymity would de facto have to be abolished, and I do not really think that is the right thing. But these will be debates that we will then be holding in committee, and I must say that safety in road transport is, of course, a top priority for us by the Austrian People's Party. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27143	Mr Mayerhofer has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27164	Madam President. Honourable Members! From my point of view, there is enough punishment and sanctions, and there is no need for any change. Please note that at 40 km/h, the executive and the authorities can provisionally decrease the driving speed in the local area with 50 km/h overrun outside the local area! They can “put off” the citizen on the spot, that is, massively intervene in the freedom of the individual. – I believe that this measure is entirely sufficient. In my opinion, these penalties are also without reference to the practice of life: 14 days of withdrawal of the driver's license are the result, in addition to a penalty of up to €700, which is 10,000 schilling! That deserves a Billa salesman in the month – in the month! [[Abg. Riepl: No, it deserves more!]] The obligation to re-training and this whole post-schooling system, which develops into a culture of which other and very recognized journalists in the press have shown that this is actually just a money acquisition action by the Ministry of Transport's close associations et cetera. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The Members of the House here in the House know very well that a lot of citizens depend on the car; I am thinking only of all the travellers and, and so. The loss of the driving licence is in itself a bitter matter and, if it extends over a longer period of time, if, for example, it lasts for three months in the extreme case, a new social case is created, and that cannot be the meaning and purpose of a law. I know, Mrs Moser, it's her hobby that you think about it every night: How can I burden the driver more, punish, sanction?, and God knows what else. – I say now: You, as a party who would like to eliminate social cases, create the possibility for such a person with such legislative proposals at least once in the fiction! Let's go to the phones: Calling at the tax has cost 36 € recently – that is what we raised only 12 months ago to 50 €, Mrs Moser! Members must already hang their backpacks when they go out to punish people because they already carry so much money; they will again be victims of security policy in Austria! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] They need their own security guard to guard them and these amounts of money! – Please clear this idea that the executive officials can remove the financial holes in the sky pfortgasse! You can't do it anymore, at the best of will! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We believe that the sanctions for vehicle drivers are completely sufficient, and we believe that we will soon think about whether we can still talk or smoke in the car – that will be one of the next applications! I am convinced that you will soon come along with other things. We will continue to wonder, and if your requests are not good to otherwise, they will all be laughing. We believe that the individual driver is the most sanctioned, most monitored, most disciplined member of society, and so it cannot continue in this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27232	The next speaker is Mr Deputies List. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27254	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Moser, I would like to agree to your request for a change of law in the driving licence system because of the way you started this discussion, but unfortunately that will not be possible. [[Calls:Why]] We have, of course, discussed ourselves in the club and have come to believe that it is not possible at the moment to implement a legislative amendment. The driving licence reservation system has been negotiated for a total of 12 years – for 12 years! – and it entered into force in 2005. There are 13 crimes, and these are rich. There are other sanctions for speeding and calling at the tax. If anyone commits a violation of law or an administrative violation, he will be punished accordingly, which may even lead to the withdrawal of a driving licence – you, Mrs. Dr. Moser, have said it anyway. [[OBJECTIVES]] The ARBÖ and the ÖAMTC, the driver's representatives, have also approved this special feature system. We do not want to shift responsibility from the future alliance of Austria! The drivers are powerful and should decide for themselves how they behave in traffic – they also have to bear all the consequences in accordance with the applicable laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27293	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 14/A to the Committee on Transport. [[22:35:37]] 8. Point First reading: Request by Dr Gabriela Moser, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the public passenger and regional transport law (15/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27336	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First, the applicant, Dr. Moser, receives the floor for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27367	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this time will be You are all my opinion, because I cannot imagine that someone here in the House is opposed to improving the public transport offer, because you know that people depend on having reliable bus connections, tram connections and train connections. They all know this from the circle of acquaintances: On average, people suffer the most and then tell their negative adventure if something does not work, for example if they experience a roadmap change such as the counterparts who come from the Krems region, through which, if they want to go to Vienna, they now have to change at once due to a timetable change, they have to spend some time without a protected waiting area to reach the connecting train to Vienna, and then they have to take a daily extension of up to an hour. [[Call to the FPÖ: This is even true of Members of free movement!]] That's what you can hear from acquaintances, these are facts, and that's why, I believe, we have the broad consensus that such things must not be repeated, that such things should be reversed, here in this House, we also have to make it clear that we are in favour of improving the public law. Since 1999, there has been the promise, and many still remember: Here, in the notes, in the legal explanations, there is exactly the indication that in the future we will need more financial resources to order additional, new, innovative public transport connections in the regional transport concepts. And you know exactly that Secretary of State Kukacka failed in the public reform that the Minister of Finance did not provide him with at least €30 million. We say that €80 million is necessary. - Remember that! Today you have discussed a scrapping premium in the order of € 130 million, which is no problem for you: Half of them carry the car trade, at least € 65 or 75 million the taxpayer carries. But these 80 million, about as much as the scrapping premium, should be a problem for you, should they not be applied to the people who really depend on having reliable public transport available daily? – In view of the economic situation – public transport is work-intensive – this is not justified in view of the economic situation, given the ecological crisis – “climate protection” –! We must finally do something about making nails with our heads in the reform of public transport. We need to make more resources available to countries and then we also have to call on the responsibility of the countries to really invest the funds they have received in ordering additional offers. Mr Heinzl, in his opening speech, held a flaming plea for improved “open”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] – Mr Heinzl, I hope that you will continue this plea today and that we will also use more resources in this direction. Originally, it has been said that the Climate Fund will make this possible, but I haven't heard anything about it today or recently. We finally need a genuine offensive for this area, otherwise people will really be left in the rain in their everyday mobility needs! They see car prices – they are currently in the basement, but they will rise again – the fuel prices – they are currently low, but they will rise again – and the public tariffs. Today I read in the paper that tariff increases are coming! This is an anti-offer against which we have expressed ourselves massively. We are against these increases in tariffs! We are in favour of offering a wide range of services for the same tariffs. I'm even in favour of finally introducing half-price tickets across the board to make it cheaper. As a constituency, the ÖVP had the Austrian card: better public transport at a uniform rate; Austria around – what was its name? -1 500 €, I think. There's nothing left to hear about that now. That's why: Let us in the Committee talk as quickly as possible about this better dosage for what people really need in order to satisfy their mobility needs environmentally sound and socially acceptable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27410	Mr Heinzl is now speaking. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27433	Madam President. High house! Dear colleague Dr. Moser, I am of course still of the opinion that investment in public transport means investment in social justice – that is no question at all! This is why additional € 700 million will be planned for the extension of the railway in the next few days. To attract public transport: In this respect, you are certainly right to improve the offer clearly. Transport needs to be made more customer-friendly. I also believe that a well-developed public transport network is adopted and used by people. Now for the promotion of the order: It is also true, Mrs Moser, that the Federal Government is doing excellent work in this area. In the 2008 budget year alone, € 11.34 million was available – the law requires the state, as you know, but only € 7.2 million. In fact, the federal government is overfilling its legal order by around €4 million, and I mean that is also good. Furthermore, the budget for public service to the ÖBB was increased in 2007 and 2008. These funds will be increased again in the coming years in order to enable rail to grow on the local transport market. In addition, in 2008 funding commitments from the Climate and Energy Fund amounted to just under €7 million to the federal states or to the cities that are concerned with precise projects of order promotion; in my hometown of St. Pölten, for example, the LUP bus system. Finally, from 2007 onwards, the countries received around € 130 million annually through the increase in mineral oil tax. The countries were invited to use these funds for public transport projects in a letter from the former Minister of Finance and also the former Minister of Transport. From all this – and this is my opinion – there is no reason to increase the promotion of the order in the short term.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27482	Mr Rädler has now come to speak. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27504	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Moser, you are now almost the entire Green Group – many are no longer here. One simply leaves you in the dark with your great concern, which wakes a memory in me, namely, the memory of “The Murmeltier greets day by day. ” There is again an abstract demand from the Greens, now in an area of passenger transport, as to which we all have clear ideas. Only: It is like a roulette for promotions that some would like to have; they do so, so the money would have been abolished. – That’s not how it will be! The covenant has its obligation here, and it also fulfils it. €7.4 million is the legal obligation to spend €11 million. In addition, the funds from the financial compensation amount to € 130 million. € 17 million from Lower Austria alone for the services we provide for investments in the field of ÖBB. Instead, you should be concerned about citizens; I am now giving you an example of this. Of course, we have to take the skills apart. We need to see if the clock traffic fits and so on. There are many tasks here, and we will talk about them in committee. I bring you an example from Vienna – it took ten years: ÖVP Vienna has submitted the application to extend the U6 to Floridsdorf, because there is a new hospital being built there, the Nord Hospital – it is only in operation in 2017 – will start construction in 2013 – and until there the metro will run. For ten years one has argued, now that in Vienna in the Transport Committee God has been decided. These are the concerns that affect citizens every day, and this should be devoted to – and not such demands!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27555	Next speaker: Mr Vock. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27576	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. There is hardly anyone here in the House who is opposed to the expansion of public transport. The essential question, of course, is the provision of financial resources – there are usually other priorities in the budget; if that is good, one will see. The figures in this proposal are certainly based on numerous projects, but I wonder if these projects are really just before implementation, because I know that many projects do not focus on the financial issue, but rather on legal issues. I am thinking, for example, of the environmental impact assessment. The Greens are always the first to fight against projects that are actively working against them in citizens' initiatives – and then you are always surprised that a project that has been on track for a long time is slowing down. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser:... operate and order!]] [[Abg. Grossruck: Build first, then operate!]] – First build, then operate, exactly. If I can't do it if I don't like it here, that's exactly it. I can't stand it all the time. I see in the greens this twittering: On the one hand, they are always opposed when something is to happen, on the other hand, they repeatedly demand that more be done for public transport. – But then you must not object to public transport and to its expansion! I believe that public transport could also do a lot, which would cost no money or little money. I just mention the example of summer and winter schedule here. I don't understand why an hourly train runs in the summer at 8.03 a.m. and in winter at 8.01 p.m. This is probably because in the summer the track is longer, in winter the iron pulls together, and therefore the train has different departure times. However, in the following summer the train will suddenly travel at 8.05 a.m. I think it's more likely that people who need to change the schedule every six months are sitting there so that their job is justified in motivating him with it, and that's how to change the timetable permanently. And in the meantime, you always save trains or change trains, so that it simply becomes unclear for the customer who wants to use them. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Scheibner.]] When I'm talking about inconsistency, I'm also talking about schedules. You already have to be a regular user of this transport so that you can read these schedules as well. If someone looks at the station for the first time, when the next train is driving, he has no chance to really recognize it. [[Abg. Riepl: Well, now you're exaggerating!]] Unnecessary waiting times are also to be avoided. It is true, for example, that all trains heading south now have 9 to 20 minutes late. I don't understand. Construction work to and fro, why do the ÖBB regularly delay towards Wiener Neustadt? And that just in winter, where people stand on the cold platform! This is anything but customer-friendly. That's where you have to push for punctuality. Or: cleanliness in public transport or at the stops. Sometimes you're gray - and there's almost nothing done. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: For example?]] Or: the application of the annual network cards – here almost nothing is done. I myself am the user of an annual network card, and since I have this annual network card, I think if I drive from Mödling to Vienna, whether I drive by car or by public transport. [[Abg. Riepl: What are you going to do with?]] In principle, therefore, to increase public transport, but in detail it will be necessary to discuss it in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27678	Mr Huber is the next speaker to speak. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27700	Madam President. High house! Under Federal Minister Faymann, ÖBB has developed a new motto, namely: How can I get more expensive and offer the customer less and less? I can only say to this request: There is from 2005 a request already drawn up by the BZÖ, which the Federal Minister only needs to address,... [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Something's wrong!]] Yes, I do! That's what transport minister Gorbach has done. This was then done by the country of Vienna – Gorbach, Hubert Gorbach! – has been brought to a standstill. [[Call the SPÖ:Who?]] The Federal Minister only needs to take up this request. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That in recent years the roadmaps have become disastrous, that the clocking is not true, that is true. The fact that in the first half of 2009 the federal government made the ÖBB 15 million € for the non-increasing of tariffs available to the Austrian government is also true. But one thing is certain: Ms. Lutter – that is the passenger transport Chefin – says that prices need to be increased by at least 5 percent. – We should also work on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27753	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 15/A to the Committee on Transport. [[22:51:49]] 9. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues concerning a law with which the Federal Law of 23. January 1974 on actions threatened with judicial punishment (Strafgesetzbuch – StGB) (17/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27795	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the applicant, Mr Mag. Steinhauser, for 5 minutes the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27822	Ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed the § 278a StGB this year already of many times in the Hohe Haus. I remind you: These have always been debates in connection with the imposition of the arrest on a group of animal protectionists. Today, § 278a is again a topic. But I am now less concerned with the processing of the detention, but rather with the consequences of these events. Backslash: In 2002, there was the last change in the field of § 278a criminal code, and at that time Amnesty International issued an opinion which I do not wish to abstain from. At the time, it was found by Amnesty International that “resistance to state power or serious property damage” was undoubtedly “in a democratic society not to constitute socially adequate behavior” and “in any case to remain prohibited by criminal law”, but it is inadequate to seek to resist a group of organized crime from the abduction of several demonstrators. And Amnesty International has already said that according to the text, this provision could also be applied to environmental organisations such as Greenpeace, which occupy a nuclear power plant. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who said this to them?]] That was almost prophetic. It was then not Greenpeace and the occupation of a nuclear power plant, but it was animal protection activists who had to learn the application of the § 278a Criminal Code. I don't think it makes sense to repeat the animal protection debate here, because it's not an animal protection debate, but it's just about the question: What is the rules of the Criminal Code? Let us take a look at § 278a Criminal Code in detail. What is the problem with this section? – We have already discussed this more often than not: It is not necessary to allocate individual criminal acts to certain persons, but it is sufficient to be a member of a criminal organisation which commits certain serious offences, and then certain investigations and surveillance measures – arrests, interception measures – can be requested. That is to say, this section is actually an investigation section. This makes him vulnerable and dangerous. Nevertheless, I say here at this point – I have already formulated this in a urgent request as well –: Considering that 5% of the world's gross domestic product comes from illegal sources, considering that 500 000 women are enslaved in brothels in Western Europe, the existence of this section makes sense – when applied to organised crime. That's the premise! Of course, it would be necessary to determine whether this is actually the case. I often have the impression that the problem of this paragraph is that it is not exactly against the money-laundering machines, Waffenschieber et cetera, but against very other people. That is to say – the historical sources also suggest this, because the historical sources were very clear at that time who should be the recipients of this section; in the debate it was said at that time that the Mafia, the ’Ndrangheta and the Triads, that is the target group of this section, and not the NGOs – it is therefore our task to sharpen these paragraphs so that it does not fall into misappropriation through misappropriation, but rather meets the target group of the organized crime that is to be the recipient. What exactly is the problem? – § 278a currently states that a criminal organisation is characterised by its “implementation to a large extent or significant impact on politics or economy”. And this is exactly what we're talking about. Reference to “significant influence on politics” is a dangerous invitation to apply these paragraphs to NGOs. The essence of organised crime is usually enrichment and profit-making, and therefore we should sharpen this part in this criminal section. We therefore propose that the part describing the “significant influence on politics or economy” be removed and that in the future this part of the section is such that a criminal organisation is characterized by its intention to be profit-making and thus to strive to be enriched to a large extent. This small correction ensures that this section can continue to be applied against organised crime – arms dealers, traffickers, money-laundering agents – but does not become the recipient and target group of this section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27865	Mr Jarolim has now come to speak. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27886	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is important for us to have this discussion, I personally can only fully endorse these considerations and appeal to you that we discuss this again – now without reference to the case of the animal protectionists – and I also mean: I would like to see this kind of acriby and such vehemence be done against persevering, trafficking in human beings with such an acrib and such vehemence – there are the most cruel developments – as in this case. But no matter what. When we created the provision concerning the criminal organization – it is also stated in the law: “Criminal Organisation” – the goal was, of course, to extortion the heavy crime that forms to exploit long-term assets. The offences that are cited speak for themselves: serious criminal acts in the area of sexual exploitation, towing, illicit traffic with combatants, nuclear materials and radioactive substances – that is, serious interventions. And if one commits to do so, it is also to be punished. It is also true of the animal protectionists that the criminal acts that have been committed are, without this, punishable and persecuted. In addition, a standard for the merger is to be given here alone. And if there is now a massive, “significant influence on politics or economy”, this of course also has the consequence: with the aim of enriching itself. And that is why, I believe, this provision is to raise the point of saying that, in the end, it is always about getting wealth benefits – whatever. This is the epitome of this provision, and it is thereby also dissociating itself from the terrorist crime. We should go through this once, I think, in an intrusive and individual discussion, and see if we really want this width of interpretation here or whether this does not lead to the determination where it should not be applied. Just as well one can say that this applies to Greenpeace or any groups that prevent whale fishing. It can be the case wherever one says there are certain values that society has established – for example, in animals by saying that an animal is not a thing, it should not be tormented and so on. If, for example, a situation arises where I know in the face of mass animal husbandry, there are no adequate conditions – or anything else in my mind – so that one does not take this issue – and this is not immediately stopped because the police are not entering, then, I think, in each of us, who knows what is happening there, of course, the consideration: How can I end this cruel, painful state – because they are living beings? And if that does not lead the state to contribute to this – which is actually its task – then so-called self-helps – under quotation marks – that can, of course, be exaggerated and punishable, no question. But the fact that those people who join together more or less than criminal organizations are subsumed is simply not adequate. Therefore, my appeal is that, in the context of the discussion, we deal with the individual examples and then decide on the basis of the individual examples for us whether we really want to do so. I think the emotions have increased very much, and they are not a good companion for such a discussion. Objectivity is stated! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27923	It is now coming, Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer to speak. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27944	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we are also at our disposal for an objective discussion of this section and the Greens' request, as in many other areas. What we do not have at our disposal, however, is that we distinguish or distinguish between criminal organizations and whether they fit us from their objective or not. I believe that this is a matter of any organisation that is concerned about organized criminal acts, in a large way, whether it is in the eye of corporate property objectives or whether it wants to have a massive influence on politics and the economy through criminal actions. Both should, of course, continue to be ponized – and not be punishment-free in one case, because the goals may appear to some of us to be comprehensible, and in other cases not. This is the issue of discussion, far away from any emotion. It can't be that one says: Because the goal is close to us, because a group is politically close to us. It shall not be punished, it shall not be persecuted; another, in whom this is not the case, shall be prosecuted. – Criminal acts should be stopped, should also be prosecuted accordingly. In the discussion, it is always so impoverished, Mr Steinhauser, by saying that this is “only civil disobedience”. – Of course, that sounds very harmless, because disobedience is more passive. But to break into houses, to commit property damage, to threaten people, that is not disobedience, but that is active crime – and it should continue to be persecuted and punished. We are, of course, open to a discussion of all these arguments, but I also wanted to say clearly what is not to be done with us, namely to impoverish criminal acts and, so to speak, to withdraw prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e27986	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e28008	Madam President. High house! The application before us is clearly a matter of occasion legislation, because a misuse of this body of law has only once, as the applicant has also stated here, given it. There were ten animal protectors – and being animal protectors is nothing of an honor to themselves, on the contrary, it is something very positive – because of a suspicion, a concrete suspicion, in criminal acts that have caused €600 000 damage, to be arrested, and house searches have been carried out. An independent investigating judge has imposed the arrest, and this decision has even been examined in court by the Supreme Court at a three-directional Senate – as in many unfortunate cases, where sometimes someone may be unjustly arrested. In the specific case, I don't know. I don't know. Will there be a charge, yes or no? – It does not concern me here either, because I am not involved in this case either. However, the fact is that other crimes, for example in the case of murder, have already been committed to arrest people who have been unjustly suspected and have been arrested in detention – but that's not why they say: Now we abolish § 75, concerning murder, because there can be a legal error here or someone gets into an unjust suspicion. The applicants here believe that this provision of § 278a StGB should be taken out of this “significant influence on politics or economy” through criminal offences. The explanatory memorandum states: Because politically different thinkers can easily be persecuted in some form on this basis; for that, in these associations or groups of persons, who maintain this civil disobedience, as my previous speaker has already done. Well, I am actually surprised that the Greens are acting here as guardians of democracy, fundamental rights and the like, because I know other cases from the recent past, especially here in this House, where the pre-conception of people who have not yet been blamed, especially nothing criminal, is going on. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have heard that my colleague, honourable Members, has been concerned today about youth unemployment. – What the Greens have demanded in recent days and weeks is a professional ban on politically different thinking. You have to let that break on your tongue! Nothing else is that – and they are young people. So I can't understand this double-difference and this shady morale. That is why I do not entirely believe that you take it with this interest in making these criminal law novels so seriously and see a very high goal behind them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead, I believe that it is up to you to decriminate groups that are close to you, even though they are also of criminal acts in the dark. I'm excited. Probably in the next days, perhaps in a week there will again be a rally under the pattern of some green group or perhaps even the federal-greens, or with the sympathy of one or another Green-Deputy. There, only civil disobedience or civil resistance is called upon. Just one thing: All too often these events begin with civil disobedience and then end with arson, with damage, with necessity, with resistance to state violence and with body injury. And we don't want to do that. The criminal law has to be there for everyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e28068	Mr Mag. Stadler is now speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Seven, we said!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I put the clock at 7 minutes. This is the total remaining time of the BZÖ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e28118	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This is not, Mr Steinhauser, some arbitrarily against greens, but it is a so-called "so-called" - to make it clear to you in the language of legal science - a specific prepared crime to protect the legal property of public order. This is the content of this crime – and not any “abuse offense” – with which the Greens now laugh larmoyantly that a few people who wanted to join them or engage in their functions were therefore subject to criminal investigations. It is simple and simply barbaric nonsense to claim that Greenpeace is at risk in Austria because of § 278a StGB. [[Call:Amnesty International]] – You said that: You said § 278a threatened Greenpeace! In this context, you have quoted an opinion by Amnesty International. That's such an ordered statement – don't be evil with me! – because that's just nonsense in there. After all, if you look at the crime more precisely, you'll notice that it has two elements, two levels that must be fulfilled, and must be cumulatively fulfilled: the organisational level and the criminal goal level. And this is so enriched by the facts that, even if we had whales – as Mr Jarolim has assumed: that the whaling quotas in Lake Neusiedler or Lake Constance are in danger when Greenpeace appears there; that is what he has brought as an example; I do not know where Greenpeace is supposed to be at risk from fishing in Austria, but we assume it once more – even if that would be the case, that everything would not be subsumable under this crime, because the conditions of crime are so extensive and, I emphasize, cumulative. But in the specific case they are present, that is the crux to the story, because that's why the offense doesn't fit you at once! It does not matter then, Mr Grillitsch, whether farmers have a damage of €600 000 or not, because the higher thing, namely animal rights, justify all of this. Political correctness warrants burglary, damage to property, house peace, loss of ownership, that's all right when it comes to the good thing – which of course is defined by the Greens, not by us. Look, this is the crux on the thing! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That means that this offence, ladies and gentlemen, is all right and systematically flawless. It fits perfectly in the classification of the Austrian legal system. There is no danger here, Mr Jarolim, that the wrong organizations may be disturbed by their civil disobedience; there are plenty of other ways of fighting civil disobedience. Have you ever looked at what Mr Steinhauser would suggest? Look Please do so once in the request! Well, I'll hold on to this. The ’Ndrangheta in Sicily or Naples would have their Gaudi with the application, because you now demand that in the future only the profit-making plan would be a condition for a punishment that must be given. Prove the ’Ndrangheta once the profit plan. That's what I'm looking at! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You see, it is much easier to prove to your animal protection heinis that they are trying to unjustly influence politics while damaging the wealth of farmers. That is why you are disturbing this offence, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So, the ’Ndrangheta would have her Gaudi if it allowed that in the future only a special enrichment plan should be linked to a profit plan. Enrichment, Mr Steinhauser, is much more important, this goes far beyond the prospect of profit. But you only want to define more of a profit plan that results in an enrichment plan than unlawful action. The ‘Ndrangheta’ will be grateful to you for that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] - No, that's not true! You're trying to protect your animal welfare friends here by trying to make this crime ineffective; that's all. And on the next occasion, you will come out and say how little Austrian politics does in the fight against the Mafia. That will be your next concern, as it were. Once it fits you, once it doesn't fit you. These people have become the subject of criminal investigation measures, which are perfectly in accordance with the law, because those farmers also have a right to be protected by the law from the agitation of people who are opposed to the rule of law on every occasion, ladies and gentlemen. That's the central point. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] That is why I say to you: Before I give your animal protection to the ’Ndrangheta in this country, we will stick to the current legal order!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e28189	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 17/A to the Committee on Justice. The agenda is exhausted.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-01-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00010_d8e28227	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted from 316/A to 396/A. Question No 675/J to 712/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 22. January 2009, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. We will start tomorrow's sitting with a question hour. The sitting is closed.
