ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e8266	Ladies and gentlemen! I very much welcome you and open the 33. Meeting of the National Council. [[10:05:15]] Meeting of the 2009 Extraordinary Meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e8291	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has the National Council with resolution of 28. In accordance with Article 28(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, on the basis of a request from more than one third of the members of the National Council for an extraordinary meeting of the XXIV, on the basis of a request from more than one third of the members of the National Council. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The official protocols of the 30th century. Meeting of 8. ==References== Meeting of 9. In July 2009, as well as the unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 32 July 2009. Meeting of 10. In July 2009, the Parliament's Directorate remained undisputed and undisputed. Deputies Dr. Plassnik, Praßl, Steibl, Ursula Haubner, Linder, Dr. Haimbuchner, Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek and Dr. Lichtenecker have been reported to be prevented. [[10:06:10]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e8329	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:06:11]] Request for a short debate on the reply to the question 2580/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e8902	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question 2580/AB by Mr Petzner, Mrs Bundesminister für Innens, on questionable methods of finding the site for the first place in the south of Austria. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. [[10:06:59]] Memorial on the occasion of the 70th anniversary. Anniversary of the beginning of World War II
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e8935	Ladies and gentlemen! [[Those present rise from their seats.]] I'm allowed to go to the agenda today, on 1st. September 2009, remember that at 70. The beginning of the Second World War – a war that has 55 million people It took life and was planned as a criminal extermination campaign, a war that was fought with soldiers from almost 60 countries and whose battlefields were on three continents – Europe, Asia and Africa. ==References== In September 1939, the "Schleswig-Holstein" opened fire on Polish positions near Gdansk and soldiers of the German Wehrmacht crossed the border. A caught robbery on a radio station offered the supposed justification for this act of aggression. Today we know that Hitler had already planned this war in 1933 and that the media with targeted reporting generated an anti-Polish mood in the population. Our commemoration today applies to all the victims of the Second World War, especially the first victims of the Second World War and the aggression facing Poland in 1933. A total of 6 million Poles died between 1939 and 1945, including 3 million Polish Jews. Let me also remind you of those people who have resisted and courageously resisted the system. We will give them our thanks and our deep recognition for their courage and their sincerity. Today, we are lucky to live in a peaceful, united Europe that seeks and finds common answers to the challenges of our time. What remains for us after 70 years is that we have to learn from history and bear our responsibility. We are now holding a short memory minute to remember all the victims of World War II. [[After a commemorative minute, the people in attendance take their seats again.]] Thank you for the rally. [[10:09]] We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e9004	The Presidential Conference reached the following consensus on the design and duration of the debates: According to § 57 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure a general speaking time of 4 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 56 minutes, FPÖ 48 minutes as well as BZÖ and greens per 40 minutes. For the duration of the TV broadcast by the ORF from now on until 13.00 a.m., the following statement was agreed: first round: 10 minutes each, member of the government ÖVP: 15 minutes; second round: 6 minutes each, member of the government SPÖ 10 minutes; another round: 5 minutes each; one round with 4 minutes each; another round with 4 minutes each. The President-in-Office shall, at the latest before the beginning of the final round after consultation with the clubmen, distribute the remaining television speaking time at the same time to the five political groups. There is also agreement that any actual corrections will only be called after the television period. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 681/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a Federal Law on the Implementation of OECD Principles of International Debit Legal Assistance (ADG) (323 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e9058	We are now going to the only item on the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak with a speaking time of 10 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e9086	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, a sad chapter is written, namely a sad chapter of a further sale of Austria, because today, with a first but essential step, the Austrian banking secret is being carried to the grave. At the latest in a year, we will be sitting here again and discussing the final abolition of banking secrecy. After all, once the locks are wide open, they can hardly be closed. Why is that? – Because you claim that there are no Austrian citizens affected by this law. You're not telling the truth here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Why? – First, of course, the Austrians abroad are affected; they are the first to come to the handcushion. Secondly, in the explanations to the draft law, I quote: ‘In Austria, non-economically resident taxable persons, which could give rise to tax control measures in a foreign state, are not affected by this Federal Act.’ What does that mean? – In the end of the turnaround, nothing other than the fact that Austria’s resident taxpayers are naturally affected by economic foreign relations – that it is also Austrian citizens. And if you think about it, what does that mean? – This means that the principle of equality is broken here, because there are, on the one hand, Austrian citizens who are affected by it, on the other hand, other citizens who are not to be affected by it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] And what will that result in? – Of course, anyone will go to the Constitutional Court or go to the European Court of Justice and, at the end of the day, our banking secret, the banking secret in Austria, will be carried to the grave. But you're acting like you don't know! You make yourself here today and pretend that this is not the consequence of this step you are taking today, and as if you did not know anything about it. And this is hypocrites! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The SPÖ and the ÖVP cannot go fast enough to comply with the OECD's non-legislative requirements and to place a abdominal area. But the sad thing is that other opposition parties, like in this case the Greens and the BZÖ, are slipping along properly. And now I come to the “great” negotiation result, which has led to greens and oranges slip when it comes to sacrificing the Austrian banking secret. [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] That's what I'm asking myself: What happened? – A negotiated outcome, which in fact cannot be exceeded in terms of non-bindingness. [[==References====External links== Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The Federal Government is well asked for the motto: Please, please, we will help you to eliminate banking secrecy, but we should have the Court of Auditors examine communities with fewer than 20,000 inhabitants. And yesterday, Mr Klubobmann's head said that from his side it was not really remembered that all of this was not grounded in stone, that all this was not yet certain and that negotiations were still under way in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, that we wanted to negotiate quickly by 2010. – So this will be postponed to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day without having anything concrete in hand. To that end, I say: There's a cow trade for which you won't get anything, but what you're willing to destroy the bank secret. And this fits wonderfully in the picture of the sale of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This fits wonderfully in the image of the sale of Austrian interests that we have experienced over and over again. I remember it called: If we become a member of the European Union, the schilling will remain! What was actually the case? – Schilling was sacrificed – and then the anonymous savings books, transit rights, the university rule, the ban on genetic engineering, and in the end the neutrality as well! And now the banking secret is coming – disk for disks – by the red and black government with the support of the green-orange pseudo opposition, one has to say that there is simply turning with the axles and saying that, on the contrary, one cannot do anything, that is exactly the case, this law is passed. Austria is not obliged to do what you are doing today! Austria is not obliged to remove banking secrecy! The basis of the draft law of SPÖ and ÖVP is the current OECD pattern agreement to avoid double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxation, and it is clear and clearly not a contract of international law, but merely a non-binding recommendation from OECD to its Member States. We therefore have no reason at all or there is no need to comply with it. That's what it's all about! The legal nature of the model agreement does not result from Austria's obligation to adopt the proposed law. But They fall here once again faster than the word “EU” can at all be pronounced. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why I'm saying: It is sad to experience a government that is willing to throw Austrian interests overboard at any time. This has also been shown by the lavish tax bill, which was decided where the banks would rather be thrown 15 billion unchecked into the throat. It also shows once again in today's debate that there is a single political group in this House that really represents Austrian interests. And I am convinced that this will also be reflected in the country elections. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only thing that this government has brought together over the summer is the abolition of banking secrecy. Over the summer, they have not given any thought to how to implement measures against unemployment, which are absolutely necessary, in the context of this special meeting today. They have not given any thought to how to take action against social reduction. They have also not given any thought to how to take action against crime, which is increasing more and more and more. It is a very sad chapter that we are writing today, and we liberals are certainly not willing to vote against Austrian interests here. We said that right from the beginning. We have pursued a clear and consistent line in this regard from the start, and we will continue to do the same today. It is also interesting to note what has happened in the negotiations that have been conducted by the Greens and the Oranges with the Government parties. I would like to say this briefly. As regards the design of the committee of inquiry as a minority law, the ÖVP has clearly and clearly stated in the person of the clubman that this is not grounded in stone. [[Abg. Brosz: Read more!]] Your agreement only says that work in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should be speeded up. I wonder, What is the concrete result that you have achieved? [[Abg. Brosz: Read more!]] Nothing – except that, so to speak, a working group that we have already had for three years and that has not done anything in these three years, which has drawn like a swirl dough and has remained without concrete results! You can really be “sudden” at that! You can really be “sudden” that you fell over here and actually did nothing for the Austrians! What if there is no agreement until then? Do you then withdraw your consent to the abolition of banking secrecy? How does that work? – This will hardly be possible, because the two-thirds majority will not be available for undoing. The same is true of the point in extending the audit of the Court of Auditors to small communities, which we have heard from the ÖVP Klubobmann that this is not an issue at all. So, in reality, a sad day for Austria. But the Austrians once again see whom they can rely on, on whom they can rely, and we will continue to do so for the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e9218	Mr Klubobmann is now speaking for 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e9239	Mr. Klubobmann Strache, you've been better before! I believe that the blue steamer is the explicitly false steamer today, because you become the protector of the international tax evaporators, the big people, the millionaires. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Abg. That's where you have to smile! Foundation owner! Foundation Owner Cap!]] You've actually represented foreign interests here. This is a whole new blow on the part of your group. What the hell is this about? – In times of scarce State, budgets, one must see that one continues to ensure the level of social state, health systems, pensions. Especially in times when the financial and economic crisis leads to an intensification in the financing of our social and welfare state, it is particularly important – and this is based on reciprocity – to have Austrian tax evaders going abroad. I would also like to have such tax evasions if the millionaires in the area wander around and find out that this social and welfare state continues to have a financial level and is further secured. [[Abg. Kickl: Oh, that's it? That's what we saw at the... Call for self-admission – that was all!]] But you from FPÖ, which you have always said so far, that you represent the interests of small women and men, whose interests are with the scarce wallets, stand here and suddenly mix the protection of the millionaires, who withdraw the tax and wander through the world, and Austria with its banking secrecy as a tax haven, with Austrian interests. [[Abg. Strache: The protection of Austrians as regards their banking secrecy!]] [[Abg. Strache: The protection of Austrians with regard to their banking secrecy is about this!]] This has been an unskilled populism on your part today. I hope that the listeners, spectators and spectators can take a picture. That's not it! [[Abg. Kickl: Tuesday morning cabaret!]] It is really about doing everything together internationally to do something about protecting tax evasion. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You haven't bothered this for the last 20 years?]] To misinterpret banking secrecy as tax evasion instruments is at all the summit. But that comes out of your speech! They say nothing but: Continue to protect foreign tax evaders! [[Abg. Street: The Austrians! The Austrians and their banking secret must be protected!]] – On this path you simply cannot go along, I would like to say that in all clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who is hesitating in Austria? Do you know the tax evasions?]] I am also sorry that you are not going along with this, because I believe that it was a sign of living, even creative, parliamentarianism, that there were four parties found here and that there was a compromise, a consensus. I understand when you talk like the fox here when it comes to the grapes. They say: But these grapes are high, and they are angry too; no, I don't want to go up there at all! – And, of course, you are now in the political corner and can see how four parties have put important things in place constructively! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Please, there has been a month-long discussion about whether Flughafen AG Vienna can finally be examined by the Court of Auditors or not. [[Abg. Strache: This has successfully prevented Häupl!]] We sat down and really did... – Well, according to your strategy, there would have been nothing at all, and the Court of Auditors could not even have examined Flughafen Wien AG, with this destruction strategy! [[Abg. Strache: This has successfully prevented Mayor Häupl with his influence!]] I would like to make that quite clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This has prevented Mayor Häupl!]] Now, with this amendment that we have decided – and it will then be discussed in the Constitutional Committee and here in plenary – the possibility for the Court of Auditors – we hope that it will finally be able to examine Airport AG. [[Abg. Kickl:... once the dissolution of the own party foundation...!]] Once again, this is a really important and essential point. On the second point – perhaps your attitude is linked to the fact that you have so few mayors or almost no mayors from the FPÖ – it is a matter of establishing a concept here that the Court of Auditors of course can also examine all the communities. [[Abg. Strache: It's 18, and it's going to be more! After Vienna it will be more!]] But first we have to look at ourselves: Which test levels are there? Of course, it can't be that the mayor is always running around with files under his arm in the area, because a representative of one of five different levels is standing at his doorstep. But what every mayor and mayor wants is that there is a test concept and that there is a test facility that is really efficient, really sustainable. This is a support for the work of mayors and mayors! That is why, I believe, it is very responsible that we have met on this point, that we are sitting down, developing this concept, and then we are going to implement it – in the interests of the citizens of the Austrian communities who are interested in the clean work being done here, and the mayors who want to do so. They want there to be a reasonable facility here – and not that you are on the gangband of any country, and then they send this examiner, and then there is that facility – that's not possible! – or anything is done at all. No, no, no, Orderly, clean, orderly! Therefore, there must also be in the final effect of this test concept. - That's the next point. Another point: It has been discussed here in the House for a long time on the issue of minority law investigation committee. Now we have a statement of substance here. The basis for creating this model in Austria could be the model of the German Bundestag. It is not one to one transferable, but there is a model in the German Bundestag, which means that, under a very reasonable institution structured in the interests of citizens, there is this Committee of Inquiry. That's the base one day. – This has not yet been the case, but it has been said by the majority in Parliament that this is the basis. – And the second is that one has said that there should be a result in the quarter of 2010. This is really a step forward! I would therefore like to say: I don't understand that you're going to do this. I would have thought that today you are presenting a differentiated opposition argumentation, where you say the good is good, and that where you feel – I believe, with an approach of populism that will not benefit you, but that is your problem – that you do not want it, you do not want it. But now that you're making yourself up here and putting everything down, it's not even like in the history of fox and grapes, but I don't think that's really useful and not really good in the interest of the Austrian Parliament. The next point – a point you have always mounted! –: There is a framework of liability for banks trying to enable banks to deal with the impact of the financial and economic crisis in times of crisis. We have even decided with your votes, unanimously, on these 100-billion-frames – it was a five-party decision here in the house. And then we all say, but now you also have to see if this is going to be all right – let's say it that way – because you have to look at the fact that there is a lot of money from the taxpayer – not only: a lot of money from the taxpayer, but at all: [[Abg. There is no audit by the Court of Auditors at all!]] The taxpayer's money – is set in motion, also carried out appropriate controls. [[Abg. Where does the Court of Auditors have a review of the balance sheet? It is not even intended to do so.]] Now we have a point where exactly that is being done, also with regard to the lending of the economy : that the content of the contracts concluded with the banks and their fulfilment should be examined. [[Abg. Kickl: Not exactly that! You don't even scratch on the surface!]] - What else? [[Abg. Kickl: Well, check the banks, for example, the banks themselves, Mr. Cap!]] We know the mood in the population, which says: Wait, what's going on? I want loans! That is what we are saying, because this is justified and it must be supported so that the economy is really being set in motion. At the same time, however, the economy cannot exist without functioning banks, therefore this liability framework; no gift, no 100 billion for the banks! What we have decided, even with your votes, must be controlled – we have also decided to do so here! I believe that these four points are tangible and that these four points are also a sign of a living, constructive Parliament. I have always felt that in this triangle – I am going from the real constitution – social partnership, government, Parliament in the past – that is long, long ago – there was an imbalance where Parliament did not have the weight that it had. Today, I have to say, this balance is all right. And this balance will continue to be in order if the opposition – I rightly say – is not to be taken into account – this fear does not need to have anyone, there are enough hard conflicts – but if one is to deal constructively with the solution of those things that are so important to this Republic, to Austria. And this is also the fight against the millionaires who, with their tax evade money, are trampling through the world and trying to get the most out where it is going. We are not the leaders of these foreign millionaires, and that is why we decide today! I hope that the EU and OECD and everyone else will continue to follow this path – in the service of functioning societies, in the service of functioning social, health and pension systems. We are concerned that there is enough money so that all that has become so dear to the Austrians – the pensions, no two-class medicine, the hospitals – can continue to work. There must be the necessary money for this, there must be the budget, and we must therefore ensure that we have orderly conditions and that tax evasion is not taken care of and simply said: It's going to go somehow. That's not our policy! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's not even the ones from the SPÖ!]] And I actually thought that the fifth party could also be involved. Why it has done this – or, in this case, has not done so – only this one can argue with its other speakers today. But you will not succeed in speaking down today – the points are far too convincing – and you will not succeed by saying that Austrian interests will be touched. It is clearly about foreign tax evasions! Today, Mr. Klubobmann, you're not on the side of the little people. Today you are definitely once again on the wrong side!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e9568	Mr Klubobmann's head is now speaking at a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e9590	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I should like to make a few comments in view of today's anniversary. 70 years ago, with the Second World War over this continent, the biggest disaster has probably occurred – or has been added to this continent – and we have rightly thought today of the many victims of this war. Europe and responsible politicians have given the right answers after the end of this war, so that there can never be such a disaster again, with the founding of the forerunner of today's EU. And I think we are doing well – this is our task today – that we should jointly develop this idea of integration, this European Union integration project, precisely in memory of these terrible events, and not, Mr. Strache, permanently, even if a compromise is necessary – and this is always necessary in a community – that the whole project is bad, but that we must confess to the deeper meaning of this project, and that we must be prepared to make some compromise, so that such things can never happen again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, now on the agenda and on the subject of our today's deliberations. No one here in the hall can seriously want foreign tax sinners to hide their money in Austria. It has long been no longer a site advantage to cover foreign tax culprits. Whoever still believes that, he really lives in the past. None of us can really want our country to become discredited internationally and to be considered with titles such as “tax oasis” and the like. I'm saying, So many foreign reactions – and I am particularly impressed by the German SPD Finance Minister Steinbrück – were not only covered, but were unacceptable and unbearable! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: But content was... correct!]] But this does not change the fact that there are international rules of the game and that we also have to comply with these international rules. And with the easing of the banking secret for foreign taxpayers, well noticed, we do nothing but fulfil these international obligations or comply with them; and this – it should be stressed again – without negative effects on the local savers, without them being affected in any way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: What about Auslandsösterreichern?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] There's another thing to do here: The failure to fulfil these obligations would have had a serious impact on the domestic economy and thus also on domestic jobs. We are all fighting together for every job in this country at the moment. Unfortunately, more people or more people are affected by unemployment, and in such a phase it would have been twice as irresponsible not to meet the solution we are now meeting. In addition, we would have threatened jobs. I say that we need a two-thirds majority in this country for this regulation and for this solution. Two parties – the BZÖ and the Greens – quickly signaled that they would be prepared to give this two-thirds majority in content, but they requested a political prize for this. [[Abg. Kickl: I wonder why they haven't done this in the last period!]] Mr. Strache, you called it a cow trade a few days ago. I would rather hold it there with today’s “Kurier” commentator, Karin Leitner, who said that this is the result of living parliamentaryism. – Yes, that’s it! Nothing else! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] However, I say: The way was clear, because the demands initially made by the opposition parties were not fulfilled for us in their sum and also in their substance before the summer. So I am all the more pleased with this result – and I am not in favour of thanking also the two negotiators, Josef Bucher and Werner Kogler, for the constructive leadership of the talks and the negotiations and, at the end of the day, also for the result that we were able to achieve, in which, as is the custom of a compromise, all of us have moved on to others. On the four points very briefly: I have already said here in July in this House that we want an audit of Vienna Airport by the Court of Auditors because this debacle has to be examined at Skylink. There, because of a lack of legal basis, the institutions have opposed it. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Red and Black!]] Because of a lack of legal basis, I have said yes. Also the rulers there cannot pass the laws. [[Abg. Strache: Heupl and Pröll already have an ordinary...!]] We are now creating a legal basis to enable this examination. Second point: There is also no objection to the Court of Auditors' audit of those contracts concluded with the banks that now need state aid. But it is precisely this: an examination of the contracts and the fulfilment of these contracts – but not a total audit of these banks on the ground, with a deep intrusion of banking secrecy and a review of business cases of any kind that have nothing to do with the one to be examined. [[Abg. Street: All at once! All of a sudden, banking secrecy is important!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: But what if the EU might want to?]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] That means we found the right solution here. The Court of Auditors will examine the supervision of the financial market, will examine it at the central bank, it will examine it at ÖIAG's subsidiary FIMBAG and also in the Ministry of Finance, and it will examine exactly what has always been criticised: whether the contracts have actually been fulfilled, what the contracts say, namely, that sufficient loans are now being granted again, especially to the domestic economy, due to this aid from the State. Third point: There is nothing at all against a careful examination of our communities, all of them. But it makes little sense for us to go to the three levels that we already know, namely the audit committee of the municipality, the municipal supervision of the countries and the national accounting authorities – which we did not yet have the law in most of the countries – to carry over all four examinations of these communities with the Bun-debt Court, but it makes much more sense – and we have agreed on this – that we have a graduated examination concept – by size, whereby we can either create population or economic sizes – or ask the Federal Government to create it, and then we advise it in this House – after which it is ensured that, on the one hand, all of us are carefully examined, but we avoid triple and quadruple examinations. Nothing else has been agreed. And that's, I mean, good as well. And the fourth point: Committee of Inquiry as a minority law. I do not hide that my approval of this point has been the most serious – not because I am against control, but also the events of the last days and weeks in connection with the current committee of inquiry, I agree a little thoughtful. Unsustainable package suspicions, confidential files that are played out, have not made it easy for us to go here. But I stand and the ÖVP stands for this agreement – of course. However, we will still have a lot to discuss. But by spring, as agreed, we will also bring this matter to a solution. That is, ladies and gentlemen, a compromise between different interests has been found between the different parties, and I think that is a good thing. Finally, let me say the following: We are currently facing enormous economic challenges, as well as all other countries. It requires all the strength of us to be able to meet these challenges together. If we continue to deal with ourselves permanently in this House, whether the topics are oillingers, Westenthalers, fungus or count, then the population will no longer understand this and will not want to understand it either. [[Inter-call at the BZÖ: Or the... by the woman Fekter! The secret police!]] As we are doing today, we must turn to the essential issues of whether employment is the question of whether these are the issues of social balance, whether this is also the prevention of tax fraud. All of this should be more devoted in the coming weeks and months and we should push back our work with ourselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e9777	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking at 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e9798	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Strache, you have repeatedly opposed the banks over the last few months. [[Abg. Street: The banking secret does not protect the banks, but the Austrians!]] Today, honestly, I have been waiting for you to put the “Giebelkreuzreiter” back on the Pranger. They did not mention the issue of raiffeisen with a word. I hope I don't have to worry about you. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. No, you don't have to!]] One thing should be clear to you: If you really say you are a consistent politician, and over many weeks and months the banks drive ahead, then from today it is clear that you are the protector of the banks that you have faced the banks with the attitude you have taken today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Street: The banking secret protects the banks? Since when does banking secrecy protect the banks? The Austrians protect the banking secret!]] The fact that you protect taxpayers and tax evaders is the reality, Mr. Strache, that you prevent international terrorism control from being possible where funds also flow through Austrian accounts. You're preventing this with your attitude. This should be calculated when Please speak here. [[Abg. That's absurd!]] No, you should get a clear understanding: The Austrian banking secret was created to protect privacy, and not to protect tax evasion, ladies and gentlemen! To that end, we confess to the BZÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: This privacy is what you need to do now!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I say that to you, too, Mr Strache: The economy suffers enough from the inability of this federal government. It is already suffering enough because, unfortunately, the individual economic packages, as they have been created, do not intervene in the economy, the orders go far too late and the bank savings package that this Federal Government has adopted. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How many billion do you expect from the measures?]] It is already suffering enough from the credit terminal, which is often and gladly disputed by the government parties. It is claimed that it does not exist. It is reality, ladies and gentlemen! Many businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, do not receive operating funds, do not receive investment credits, because the banks have the money to finance themselves, and they do not pass it on to the real economy as we have foreseen in the bank rescue package. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we have also taken this step in the bank rescue package, which you have finally decided on. They should have a natural interest in ensuring that these parts of the contract will also be examined by the Court of Auditors in future, and that they also support it. [[Abg. Strache: The balance sheets of banks are audited!]] We did it. We have convinced the ÖVP and the SPÖ that it is right and important to have the bank rescue package controlled by the Court of Auditors. This is ultimately good for the economy, because we want to be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that the funds provided by the taxpayer – in the form of equity injections, in the form of liabilities and guarantees – will be passed on to the economy in the form of loans. That was originally your intention. But now you are opposed to the fact that we ultimately ensure an audit by the Court of Auditors. No one understands that, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: Because you threw the banking secret for the Austrians overboard!]] If you represent this attitude, you also need to purchase that Austria lands on a black list, which means that investment projects at European level remain many banks, but also businesses fail. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Grey is the list!]] What does that mean in the last episode? – We live 50 percent of the export, we live by the fact that skilled entrepreneurs, skilled workers and employees ensure that we can maintain this social prosperity in Austria by being export world champions. You stop this with your lack of consent. They would provoke unemployment by the fact that we could no longer participate in major international projects. It is good that this measure has now been prevented and that the easing of banking secrecy is ultimately taking place. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A year ago, we also found ourselves here in the House. They will remember that the economic crisis was already on the international scene. The financial and banking crisis has turned out, but we have often been brought to light by the country's main office, whether it was the Austrian central bank or the Ministry of Finance. Mr Molterer, I very much appreciate you as a Member of Parliament, but remember, at the time it was said that the death dance was cancelled, let the shoeboarders rise, we are not affected by the international financial and banking crisis, because we or the Austrian banks have charged the money in the East, €300 billion, because there is no economic crisis, there is no financial market crisis taking place. We have been told over and over again that Austria remains out of place, ladies and gentlemen. ==References====External links== All of a sudden, everything was completely different. Austria is heavily affected, we need to send a bank rescue package on the journey so that the Austrian economy and the citizens are spared from a major economic disaster. We said yes; all five parties said yes. Since all citizens are asked to pay for this financial and banking crisis, it is now also particularly important that we control whether the means of taxation that have been used there actually land where we want them, namely in the economy, in the creation of jobs and in the generation of turnovers, and to use them to counter the economic flea that Austria has recorded in the meantime. That is why we have always followed the principle that the Court of Auditors should also be used where it controls whether the loans are also passed on to the economy. This is especially important now, where we see that, since the beginning of this financial and economic crisis, the rulers in Europe have unfortunately not yet found any really suitable recipes, that there is no financial market regulation, that banks on European financial markets are already beginning to speculate again, that the next bubble will be produced again. There's a lot of people wondering: Where are we? We are now being used to finance this mess, and Europe's rulers are not able to derive from these crises of recent months decisive measures so that something like this will no longer happen in the future. That is why we say: Mr Finanzminister, you are making a decisive contribution in the interests of Austria to the fact that, in the coming weeks, the appropriate measures will be implemented so that this mess will no longer be repeated, so that the Austrian banks will continue to comply with the rules in the future, so that they will be monitored so that the rules can be taken and that this great financial fiasco, which we expect in the coming weeks, will remain separate. Especially in view of the enormous debt development of our country, it is necessary that we deal with the budget with it carefully! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What does this have to do with the law? What's that got to do with bank secrecy?]] Well, the bank rescue package costs us 10 billion € per year. That is why we also call for appropriate reforms in the Federal budget. We call for the maintenance of social prosperity, which is at risk of finally starting reforms in the fields of pensions, health systems, taxes or administration. Ladies and gentlemen! If we do not put in place these decisive measures now, then we are on the verge of financial viability. It has not been said, and it has not been done with the fact that we are just going on with budgets, but now is the crucial time to finally launch the reforms. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If we don't do this in time, ladies and gentlemen, we'll have enormous scope for the next generations in the next few years, and you won't find anyone who can take responsibility for government. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We therefore see a fatal development in Austrian government work. I only remember the mismanagement at the AUA, at the ÖBB, at the health insurance companies, where hundreds of millions of euros are speculated. The summit was the speculation of the Federal Finance Agency of over €400 million. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, somewhere has the shame and the dress after that come to deal with the tax money carefully. We therefore demand that the Federal Minister in the future ensure that tax money is no longer speculated – neither at local level, nor at national level, nor at all at federal level – so that the use of tax resources is in the interest of citizens in the future, and not in the interest of any parties trying to beat political small money out of it. Ladies and gentlemen! We have achieved one with this package of measures, and this is not to be denied: that more control is needed to ensure that citizens can ensure that the tax resources will be handled with care in the future. This is ultimately also a responsible task of an opposition party.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10016	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10038	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It is a matter of a lot – even though the Group, which has had the right to speak here today, has gotten a lot mixed up. What's this about? – It is about international developments and developments that are, by the way, corrected by this law. It is about the Austrian developments and solutions that we decide here today, and last but not least it is also about cooperation here in the house and thus in Austrian politics at all. In turn, it is about reason, commitment and enforcement. I'm coming to reason. There is no reasonable monopoly. Since there are no absolute truths at all, they do not exist in politics at all. It's about balance of interests. First of all, one has to take a stand, represent interests and find a balance of interest in democracy. Since this is so difficult with reason and I, as I suppose, can expect the Vice-Cancellor to speak up, I will only make you aware in good time that you should take this seriously with the Reason monopoly, because this whole development has a story. We have warned you for a long time – and we can easily prove that – where this is going, and have already made negotiations long before we got into this situation in which we finally found ourselves – so that it is only clear. That is why, I believe, it is very useful, even if every political group has once again reflected on it, as it has come to this - I do not think it is acceptable - very good overall negotiation results. But the most important thing that is almost overlooked here with great bravour is the international development that is behind the whole. What has been the problem for years and decades? This is an economic order which, as I say itself as a market-economyist, has begun to impose excessive liberalisation attacks on certain institutions and regulations that have existed globally. Then, at last, even in the United States, it is all too much that politics, which we are always talking about, is what we should be fighting for – we should be interested in the fact that there is something like a right of determination of politics about economic operations, otherwise we can all get away from it, in any case, from all over the world – by the fact that individual governments – there are few – are always making cursing offers and the whole thing becomes a classic prison term, namely that there are certain reasonable standards that should be best applied globally, but since there is no global government, they can always be negotiated multilaterally. That is why the OECD has been a very reasonable institution in this respect and, in fact, a great aid work, also as a contribution to your sense of reason. The fact that we are being put into this situation because of a certain international development, which says that we are no longer in favour of governments, is the useful thing in this process. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And what do we no longer like? – That the whole world – and the EU is very important in this gearbox and therefore again Austria, because Austria has now been the last EU country that has not been in line; from today on there are good opportunities – binding standards are being set up against billions – in the amount of billions! – to be deprived of the communities and societies with which they can do many useful things. If we believe that there should be such a thing as tax contributions, that it is reasonable to finance general benefits, if we also believe that this should be done in accordance with certain performance principles, if we believe that those who can contribute more can also contribute more, then everything is counted together, tax fraud is a crime, not just an economic and financial crime, but a crime to this agreement of society. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That was it before!]] The fact that we are of this opinion is nothing new. But what we as Austria, as a Republic, have done over and over again, is to paralyze the EU in part and prevent Austria, like the EU, from making reasonable contributions and taking positions on the international parquet. That is now being adjusted, and that is correct and good. By the way, it is not even a question of combating tax fraud, but it is also a question of ensuring that these rules will also help to make money laundering more effective, including an important matter. After all, it is also a question of removing billions from the country because of these rules, if they are strengthened more globally, from all the despots from Africa or from other regimes, and thus of removing funds for the most necessary services that should actually be available to the needy population there. These are very reasonable processes, and that is why these international standards are needed. Austria has been so far, you really have to say that, a sinner country. That's it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But – we have discussed this more often – it is never too late to see, it is never too late to reverse, and I say this without irony, because I know that once you have taken positions, whether out of conviction or just because you represent certain interests, it is not so easy to move away from it. And one thing is sure: At least a government party has moved relatively far away from where it originally started, and I think that deserves recognition. The question is just how it happened. It has come about because international pressure has arisen, and then you have raised it accordingly, but with the mistake of beauty, that if these sanctions, which you have spoken about, occur, the opposition is to blame, after the government has for years failed to do something in this case. I'm going to prove it now. I would like to quote briefly from 29.2.2008: ‘Fight tax fraud and money laundering Austria is producing a massive problem – and the red and black government is rarely denying it. In doing so, one could approach the matter with the so-called 'bank secret' relaxed and simply open eyes and ears. Austria will have to change its rare form of aid to tax fraud and money laundering. The other countries will no longer be pleased to see individual states serving as a safe haven for tax refugees and representatives of organized crime. The pressure on the ‘Schmarotzer’ – that is, Austria in this case – “and aid perpetrators will rise. Now, in February 2008, “Österreich is at the international prranger: The plausible accusations clearly state and private advantage of tax fraud and so on are “speaked”. Completion of the quote: ‘EU and OECD are therefore rightly calling for clearer and more transparent rules in this area. Gusenbauer and Molterer should therefore come out of their Trutzburg and use the historic window for honest cooperation with the international institutions.” This has now succeeded Faymann and Pröll, but not necessarily out of insight, but because of international pressure and pressure from the Greens. That's right, too. It's all right. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] And to the Austrian development and solution of this matter: Of course, there has been a great deal of refinement and commitment – and this deserves a certain recognition – to find a solution that the Banking Act is not affected and that we then decide on this Act on State Aid Enforcement, which ensures that the double taxation agreements – that is the real objective – can be designed accordingly. That's a passable process. Granted, we would have wanted something sharper because we wanted to fight fraud more urgently and at the same time. We did not get through everywhere, that is true, but that is the very essence of a compromise. In a few years' time, we will see if this regulation will apply. After all, you have, of course, contacted the OECD, but we have, and we have been able to convince ourselves of a few things that we were not so convinced of before. In particular, there will be an international monitoring procedure, whether it is in all states. I think that this is a very reasonable process, and that is why we will not be more papal than the Pope, especially since – and with this I come to the next and final point – many more reasonable things have come out in connection with these ways of dealing which have already been mentioned here. That's right, and that's good. Finally, I say: If everything has gotten better, it is a good thing if the Court of Auditors is finally allowed to examine the bank package, where we really want to look. The fight against foreign tax fraud also affects foreign empires and not the foreign small people. These benefit, Mr Strache, if the rich have to pay more taxes at home. - It's just noticed by the way. The Court of Auditors should, as has been said, examine the bank package, but not light it into the individual business, but check whether the agreements are complied with in the aggregate. And in the end, the government has something to do with it, because it can be said that it is indeed being examined by a credible institution. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That was what has so far been missing. In the end, everyone may benefit from it, and why should we get into it when we meet where in the end it is best for the people, for the taxpayers, for the bank customers and for the small shareholders, keyword: Skylink? – These too wanted the audit by the Court of Auditors, and now it is coming.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10121	Now comes Mr. Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll at 15 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10143	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to start by saying a few words on the first part of the central issue we are discussing today. September 70 years ago. At that time, the Second World War broke out, as some say. I mean, he didn't break out, but he was coldly planned. We must never forget that! From the beginning, he was designed as an attack war to bring damage to Europe and the whole world. The conclusions drawn by Europe from these difficult and worst years of the continent, namely to force integration, were correct. – This is a small bow, but also very important arch on what we are discussing today, in two ways: It can never be a cow trade if ordinary talks are held and negotiated in Parliament, a subject is being prepared and majority voting is sought. On the contrary! This is the basis for functioning democracy and the rejection of any totalitarian regime. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, these are the consequences of the conclusions drawn from the tragic events. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] Secondly, Europe has also succeeded in self-confidently representing a European way of life and European ideas internationally. This also includes acting at the same level on the issue of international cooperation, but not just organizing a one-way road and putting nationalism in the foreground, but also being ready to give the right answers in terms of a common profit of the State community. This includes the proper negotiation of issues, the pursuit of a two-thirds majority, but also, as I hope, today in Parliament, the commitment to be part of the international community plays an important role and the right step is being taken offensively. In this way, in my view, we can, today, in any case, take a very successful account of the implementation of the Civil Service Act. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that this decision of today is currently one of the most important decisions in this period of government. If we had not come so far just in September, since many international dates were cumulated, we would have suffered massive damage to the Austrian economic location. This would have a fatal impact on our economic system! That is why I thank not only the coalition partner, but above all also the opposition parties, namely the Greens and the BZÖ, for a very constructive negotiation. This has taken longer, but it is important that we give the answer and send a real signal today during an important OECD conference in Mexico, and it is important that tomorrow, at the Extraordinary Council of Finance Ministers, which was set up to prepare the G 20 meeting in Pittsburgh, we make a self-confident sign from the Austrian Parliament, which reads here: Protection of banking secrecy for Austrians, taxpayers in this country. We are not changing the Banking Act, but we are giving a clear signal that better information exchange will be possible in the future in accordance with OECD requirements, and that is good, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is good – I say now, because some doubt the damage to the economic location – because we were afraid to be heavily affected in the export sector. The decommissioning of companies and location issues would also be a major priority, because of course we would have had to expect sanctions on OECD in the international community. It would also have been necessary for the double taxation agreements to be dissolved, and then we would have been faced with the fact that business relations would have been taxed twice. What effects this would have had, I no longer need to make it more clear. We still have a task ahead of us, but I can also say very positively: If we adopt the Act of Enforcement today, it is the second requirement to come down from the grey list. At least twelve double taxation agreements will be negotiated and initialled accordingly, and I can say today: The Ministry of Finance has been working with high pressure in recent weeks. We have already signed two agreements and we have initialled ten. That is enough to give the OECD the signal that we have already fulfilled our plan. With today's decision and the twelve double taxation agreements, the fact that we are coming down from the grey list is no longer in the way. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is a wise and right decision for the benefit of Austria's economic location. We've set the right signals. I will return to negotiations on the overall policy package: I think it is wise that, if we define more transparency as an important prerequisite for data exchange in the area of tax evasion and tax unfairness, we also feel more transparency on the second side, where it is a matter of allowing auditing in Austria. That was discussed extensively. For the municipalities in Austria, a new test plan for the discharge of the municipalities, but with greater transparency and efficiency, will also be developed and launched in the quality of the examination. This is a wise, right political package, including the question of minority rights in the Committee of Inquiry. This is now to be developed and discussed. I think this is how it works: Based on the Austrian discussions we have had, we try to find the answers with more confidence than before, from case to case. Member of the European Parliament! I already have a question to ask you: If you put yourself on the side of the others on this important question, in which you want to push foreign tax evasion aside, I have a second question. [[Abg. Strache: What was the first question? You have not even formulated the first question!]] That's a procedure. – If you call every political discussion and negotiation a cow trade, I ask you why there are ongoing contacts to reach agreement on matters with you! I don't know how to solve this in the future! [[Abg. Strache: The banking secret of the Austrians is not important to you!]] I take note of the fact that, obviously, an opposition party is taking part in the race, because for them a political negotiation is automatic cow trafficking! [[Abg. Strache: The result is a cow trade, not the negotiation!]] I believe that this does not bring us together in Parliament on important issues. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, today's decision is averting serious damage from Austria's economic location. We protect Austrian taxpayers in the Banking Act as had been done, and we provide more data and faster data in the event of foreign tax evasion or tax offences to foreign authorities. This is a politically coherent overall package.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10232	Next, Mr Kickl. The next round will be limited by 6 minutes per speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10253	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In this packed charge of insight, which we have now heard from the representatives of the government parties and the pseudopop position, we are really wondering why it actually took so long for a sufficient majority in this House to get rid of this banking secret as it is in the present form. Don't do that when you've been given the insight over the night, but say what's really behind it, because the international pressure makes sure that you don't put Austrian interests in the foreground again, but instead of taking a seat at the negotiating table, take a seat under the negotiating table and capitulate in advance, instead of putting yourself on the back feet! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you: How would you describe someone standing in front of you and then loud, with the chest tone of conviction, proclaiming that now, everywhere in the house up to the last chamber, he can now install in the sanitary facilities and laundry rooms inside surveillance chamber and microphones and bugs, so that everyone who is interested in it can see in it, and then the same one who sets these measures, at the same time claiming that this opportunity of insight around the clock for all kinds of voyeurs, spanners and otherwise interested people actually serves to maintain their privacy?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] That's exactly the argument you're using, and I think we see from the FPÖ just as it sees the population: In such a case, one can only say that either the one who argues in this way is not quite serious – that is the alternative – or that he wants to sell the population and all of us – that is the second alternative – for stupid! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are the two alternatives. Either – or: Something else can't be done here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now invite you from the government and from green and orange, which this time you will at least be in large parts – as I hear – to find out on which side you want to stand: Either to the side of the evil political intention, and I would – from experience – once think that red and black are those who are predestined for it, or to the side of political naïve and simplicity. In this regard, Mr Pirklhuber has already given us some of the best things to do today, which makes it easier for us to allocate. [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Just as with these cameras, microphones and cheeks in the example, it is at the heart of the matter when it comes to banking secrecy: You are now starting to install this system, although not yet in all rooms, no question at all, but with the firm intention to get there at a final expansion stage, although you today deny that this is your intention. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] On this point, we are far too rich in negative experiences as regards your past promises! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have the clear intention of perceiving Austrian citizens with regard to their finances and their accounts, except for the proverbial underwear! It will only be a matter of time – I bet with you! – until we sit here and you explain to us that it will be necessary, on the basis of the guidelines from Brussels and wherever necessary, for us to take this step in order not to get on any lists internationally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor is not here. Mr Finanzminister! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] I can remind you if you have already forgotten that you have just said on Swiss television – I quote – recently: A resolution or evasion of banking secrecy is not to be debated. – You said that there. In addition, you have said that you already have with the existing legal situation all the possibilities you need to make the tax evasioners hard to deal with. – That’s interesting! It's not been too long. I can remind you that you said: We will all be convinced that Austria criticizes that we sit on the longer branch and are right with our argumentation. I should like to remind colleagues Bucher, who are also likely to have a bad short-term memory, that he said in July of this year: The banking secret must not be affected and there must be no insight except in the event of suspicion. [[Abg. Strache: All of a sudden, he's shredded!]] That is exactly the case now! You should not be so easy to deal with what you say, but stand out here for your words. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You should stand by and not because you believe you need to look for a little niche for your political margin group, take a positioning here and another positioning there. This will end up in the political no-one's country, which I say to you at the end of the day. Ladies and gentlemen! They're already wondering: What is it for a government that, in the middle of the economic crisis, – only because the German Minister of Finance, which the oats are setting, in the middle of the economic crisis, calls out a hunt for tax culprits, perhaps pretending to be able to fight the causes of the economic crisis – is blindly running behind, just because Mr Steinbrück is pifting in Berlin? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are not bound by Mr Steinbrück and others, but you are obliged to the Austrian people! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I'm gonna tell you something that's very important: They have built a back door through the European Court of Justice on the issue of inequality at the opening of accounts, which will prove to be the main source of invading. If you do this today, you say that this will never apply to the Austrians. – To that I reply: Of course, this will come, and the bad thing about it is the intention you have: They are basically concerned with perceiving exactly! And that's what Mr Steinbrück wants. You want to find out: Who has his money where on which account or savings book and to what extent? – This is the background of your Master Plan! This is a master plan for social reduction, and there are very firm interests behind it: You no longer know how to finance your budget holes. You no longer know how to deal with debt, and the only thing that remains for you is access to the assets of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where do you need it? – The SPÖ was already treacherous throughout the debate about wealth tax. We've heard how the wind blows! That's where you've seen: Capital tax means access to the property, and you need to know where it is. In the care debate, it will go in this direction and also in the social field. They insist on Hartz IV that everyone must first move everything he has saved in his life until he is entitled to social assistance. I'll tell you: The Freedom Party does not participate in this displeasure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I appeal to greenery and to the rest of a reason at Orange not to decide this nonsense today!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10391	Mr Krainer has now come to speak. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10422	Madam President. Yeah, we're restricting Austrian banking secrecy today. That's what we're doing: In the future, people who are subject to taxation abroad cannot abuse Austrian banking secrecy in order to hide money from the respective Minister of Finance. And that's good. This is true in two directions. Not Austria is now taking a step, but all countries within the OECD have to take this step in accordance. But this also means that there are Austrians hiding their money from Josef Pröll abroad. However, these people will not be able to do this as easily as they have. Indeed, it is the real good thing about this whole international action that the states have more or less agreed that the other is no longer allowed to hide money from the respective Minister of Finance. This will also mean that Austrians now no longer abuse the right there with foundations in Liechtenstein to withdraw taxes. There is this famous CD that the Germans have bought, which has foundations in Liechtenstein, and then there are over a hundred Austrians who have also done so. What we decide today is part of it: It can no longer abuse a German or anyone in Austria's banking secrecy. As well as the other way round: An Austrian can no longer abuse the system there in Liechtenstein to withdraw taxes in Austria. And it is really good that this is an international agreement and that we in Austria can also expect that we will have higher tax revenue in future due to this measure. In the context of fiscal justice, my predecessor referred to the property tax. We are always talking about growth taxes, and it seems necessary to explain again and again what it is all about: There are different ways to make money. You can go to work for your money. This means 40 to 60 percent of taxes and taxes. But you can also let others work for their money, for example through stock speculation. Then you pay zero. This is the situation now, and we say that it is not fair for those who work to earn money to pay about 50 percent of taxes and taxes, but that the speculators pay nothing. - We want to get that right now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the FPÖ sees the attack, it is true that it not only wants to protect foreigners from punishment, but also Austrians who do not make a fair contribution. But we want everyone to make a fair contribution, and that will be necessary. The budget deficits we have at the moment have already been addressed. This can be done for one or two years at the height of the crisis. But it is clear that we must clarify both on the expenditure side and also on fiscal justice, how we can reorganise this budget and how we can achieve a balanced level of revenue and expenditure. In this respect, it will also be necessary to ensure greater tax justice in this country, as there are, as is known, many areas in which there is no justice today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The essential thing is that the state remains eligible for funding so that it can also finance the core tasks it has. The core tasks can be formulated by everyone else. It is relatively simple for us as a social democracy: Those opportunities and risks in the life of a person who cannot finance or carry the individual must be financed by the state in a social sense and compensate for them. This is the area of education, which is to see education as an opportunity to lead a better, more efficient, more beautiful, more fulfilling life through this path. On the other hand, the health system and the pension system are designed to create a financial compensation for the risk of getting sick, and for the fact that they are getting old and can no longer work. In other words, these key tasks of the State must remain eligible for funding. Today, this is a small step towards maintaining this financial viability, and it is good that we are fighting tax evasion internationally with this step. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10492	Mr Dr. Stummvoll has now come up with a speech time of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10513	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Official Assistance Act – I admit, at first glance it sounds incredibly brittle, dry and technocratic, it smells just after bureaucracy. On closer consideration, however, one sees that in fact, beyond the content, in two directions they hide incredibly exciting questions of great importance. The content has been explained quickly, that has already been done by previous speakers. In fact, the banking secrecy for domestic taxpayers remains completely unaffected, the change concerns only foreign tax procedures. It is simply intended to prevent dishonest taxpayers who want to avoid the tax abroad, in their home country, from depositing their funds in Austria and here having the shield of bank secrecy. This is the only change to be prevented. This is undoubtedly also an important contribution to greater tax fairness and tax justice, with the conditions fourfold. First, the bank information must be relevant for tax purposes. Secondly, there must be concrete evidence that money is being spent in Austria. It must be a very specific case, that is also a prerequisite. Furthermore, foreign countries must prove that all the necessary information has been collected abroad. These are the conditions. But now on the exciting questions that go beyond the content: I believe that Austria, although the last country in the EU, is making a contribution in accordance with an international obligation to combat and dry tax havens in the framework of a large-scale strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, it should not be underestimated. This is undoubtedly also an important mosaic in the context of a reorganisation of the financial system as a whole. It is only a mosaic, but a very important one, because it cannot be, ladies and gentlemen, that the honest taxpayer must therefore pay more tax, because the dishonest taxpayer avoids tax and appeals to banking secrets in other countries. It can't be! The OECD has very meritfully taken on this matter, and also G 20, the 20 most important economic nations in the world. We have, of course, international commitments here, and it would have been unthinkable, ladies and gentlemen, unthinkable and unimaginable, after Luxembourg, Liechtenstein, Singapore, the Cayman Islands, after all have known to cooperate with the tax authorities that we as the EU country Austria are saying here: No, we're not. That would be unthinkable! The economic consequences would have been devastating. First warnings have already been issued by the European Investment Bank. In other words, we undoubtedly have an important commitment here within the framework of a large-scale strategy for the reorganisation of financial markets. I think the financial crisis has shown very clearly that we simply need new, stricter rules to prevent what has happened, namely the biggest financial crisis in the last 80 to 100 years with incredibly fatal consequences on the real economy. That is why I think this is an important contribution. I say again: I know it's just an important mosaic. A new financial architecture is necessary, and the EU is here, I believe, on the right track. This financial architecture is to be built on two pillars: One is a European Systemic Risk Council, and the other is a European Financial Market Supervision System. This will undoubtedly be the main task. But there is also a second area, ladies and gentlemen, which, in my opinion, will also be very exciting for the future of this House. I believe that the discussions about this law have contributed to more political culture in this House. Of course, it was tempting for the opposition to say: Now we have you, both government parties, now you need us, and now we can extortion you. – The government has not been extorted, and the opposition has ultimately turned towards very constructive talks. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does “swivel ” mean?]] This has led us to be able to present something that I myself have to say: I fully agree with all four points, all three of which concern the Court of Auditors, and also with the point of the political agreement on the Committee of Inquiry. I really appreciate the two colleagues Sepp Bucher and Werner Kogler, thanking them too because we could not have solved these problems in the financial committee alone. They have also achieved an important breakthrough in their role as club crews. I think we should take this seriously for the future. Years ago, as the chairman of the Financial Committee, I began to engage in informal discussions over and over again. Why not also discuss and implement opposition ideas?- Oh, my God! I've always said, Please, more transparency, more efficient control – in a reasonable framework, yes, of course! I believe that we will continue to do so in the future. I very much regret that the Freedom Party did not go along. It has been isolated here; okay, that must be decided by each political group. I am very sorry, but overall I am very glad that we have found this consensus. This is an important contribution to the international strategy against tax havens, an important contribution to the reorganisation of the financial system.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10550	Mr Scheibner is now speaking at a speaking time of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10571	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, in your speech, I have seen a little blurry: They meant that the opposition is “swivelling” on a constructive course. That's not quite right. I would say that the government finally realized that it must give in to reasonable opposition proposals. These are located on the table from the beginning; You refused before the summer! If it is so important that you exist internationally as a pattern boy, you could have negotiated and implemented it in all peace before the summer. But that's where you've been messed up. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to tell you quite honestly that I would like to relativize these lists. Of course, it is necessary to prevent Austria from being a tax haven, as a hort of tax sinners, and that there are negative effects on our economy. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would also expect government representatives to stand up to it internationally when it comes to discussing lists on which Saudi Arabia is in the good and transparent, whereas Austria is said to be among the evil ones. There the bar is already a bit wrong, and you should also show that. It is also primarily about bringing these international organizations to the end that they are proposing to the real speculators a bar, namely those who have caused this economic crisis! This is not about any small tax culprits, but about the fact that on the international financial markets, the stock markets are finally becoming commodity markets and not casinos. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] We are still waiting in vain for the international organizations to put a bar on the true culprits. On the other hand, however, I am telling you the following, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. I really don't understand your cry and your warnings that the Austrians' banking secret is in danger. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Or have you found a new foreigner kindness now? – They protect the foreigners in Austria, that really surprises me. I'm telling you quite honestly: Of course, for Austrian citizens who pay taxes here in Austria and invest their money generated, there must be a 100% secure banking secret in the future! For this we are also from the BZÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I'm telling you, it's not a hundred percent concern that you're now organizing all this for foreigners accordingly. But for the foreigners in Austria, as you do, I do not rely on the rails when it comes to the other side – and this should actually support a constructive opposition party – to enforce control and control rights! They were also very skeptical about the bank package. Now we don't hear about it anymore. You have beaten the wrong ones, because those of Raiffeisen who have always criticized you here are those who are still most likely to do what we expect, namely to lend and to be there for the economy. There are other banks – ladies and gentlemen, you have not addressed them – which are much more massive. But suddenly you don't hear anything from you. Have there been discussions or negotiations that you are now, at once, no longer in favour of reviewing the bank package? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's what we all wanted; now we finally have the opportunity to exert pressure. Thank you, Mr Klubobmann Bucher from BZÖ, for finally having the bank package checked by the Court of Auditors! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is unfortunate, Mr Molterer, that we had to put this junkim. In fact, an active government would have had to say on its own, without reference to banking secrecy: Yes, we also want the money of taxpayers to be used properly, we also want banks to be controlled, we also want Skylink to investigate the scandalous machinations. You should've done that from the house. Okay, if it's necessary to use such a negotiation result: Hurra! I don't understand why you're always against it. But you know only where you are against it, and not what you are for. We have already seen this in Europe's policy. We have seen this in foreign policy. You always say: “Foreigners out!” but when it comes to the BZÖ as well as to us at the time to tighten the rules of citizenship in such a way that we now have 75 percent less citizenship, you were against it! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No, that's too little in times of crisis. People demand an opposition to criticize, yes, but also to say, where necessary, how to make it better, to implement something, and to force the rulers to support opposition applications as well. That's why we are, ladies and gentlemen, but I know you're still far away. The voter shall, however, take the decision: What he wants to criticize, where it is necessary, but also to make constructive proposals and to ensure that they are implemented, ladies and gentlemen? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We also want to implement the control of the Communities by the Court of Auditors. There were also speculations with the Austrian tax money, and there are no controls. It can't be like that in the future! I'm very honest with you, I'm not sure either. We will continue to force you to implement this. There are many motions for resolutions. I look very deep in the eyes of Mr Neugebauer: We have also tabled joint motions for resolutions here that there should be a uniform right of service for officials, which has not yet been implemented. We have said in the field of health that there must be appropriate savings and a change of philosophy, and that is not yet implemented. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we will also force you to do so in the future! If you think we're majority-producers, then you'll be wrong. We will support reasonable proposals, but we will ensure that these applications are implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10703	Next speaker: Mr Van der Bellen, with a speaking time of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10725	Madam President. It is interesting to see how much is going on in international cooperation if there are enough countries to do so. Unfortunately, Austria did not belong to the states that wanted this from the beginning. But I am now resisting the temptation to follow up the entire history of the fight against international tax fraud here in Austria and to roll it up. It is good that we take this step, even if we are one of the last camels in this caravan to combat tax fraud in an international perspective. I think it was also a good example of the functioning of parliamentarianism if one wants it. My full recognition, almost admirable, my thanks to the negotiators, especially the clubmen, with us Werner Kogler, who has negotiated this for the Greens! It is good that this is now in this form. We will see whether every single section proves itself in practice. There are certain questions, for example regarding § 4 para. 1. That's what it's all about: ‘The request for foreign assistance concerned... Persons must be ‘intellected’ immediately. Well, that's where you're going to be a little bit together. Such a request for assistance will normally only exist if, we say, there is a reasonable suspicion of a reduction in taxes or a evasion of taxes. Now the foreign authority in Austria is seeking such information, and the data subject must be informed immediately. This, of course, opens up certain options for action to this person. On the other hand, in principle I understand this already, especially because, although the person has no right to object, he can demand a decision and then, if he is positive from the point of view of the financial authority and negative from the point of view of the person concerned, can appeal to the Administrative Court or Constitutional Court. As time passes, that also opens up certain options for action. I would also think that it is a problem to not understand him in principle. That is why we will see how peer reviews will take place, which will take place on the part of the OECD. This means that not Austrian experts and auditors are concerned about how this law works in practice or international cooperation will work in practice, but foreign, foreign experts will look at it in each State concerned. It will be necessary to see how other countries have regulated this obligation to provide information. I think it is interesting that the OECD – by the way, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, who are not known to be identical with the European Union – is already in place here from the house. This means that each stranger evaluates the national implementation of these provisions – do not check them, but evaluate them. As a patron of foreign tax refugees, tax sinners and tax fraud, the liberals are able by the way to put hundreds of thousands of foreign-Austrians de facto in the smell of tax fraud. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: That's what you do!]] Formal, you're right. Formal is it right that the law does not refer to citizens. No tax law refers to citizens, but to taxable persons who are taxable abroad. That could also be an Austrian, of course! A Bosnian citizen who lives in Austria must pay taxes in Austria, an Austrian who lives in Germany must pay taxes in Germany, that is clear. 99 per cent of these will be as taxable as I or my colleague, as I accept in his favour. But these 1 percent that may not be to identify with the 99 percent of the others, to whose attorney you raise up, that's already a strong piece. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second is: They have completely overlooked the fact that this has very little to do with the European Union, which has once again been to blame for it. It is also not so much the OECD. It was essentially the US. I recommend that you look through the last months of the “New Zurich Newspaper”, only their economic part. This has dominated the economy of the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” for months, namely the dispute between the American authorities and the UBS, a Swiss bank. Although you have made a comparison, I would say that Switzerland has been kneeling before – Switzerland, your great example! Are you expecting Austria to be the last Trutzburg international tax refugees and potential tax fraud? – You can't seriously mean that, that's ridiculous! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I would be pleased if international initiatives of this kind were put in other important areas. A European banking supervision, for example, which we urgently need, will not exist, as we all now know, unfortunately not exist! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Unfortunately, an international financial market reregulation, which deserves the name, will not exist, just as things look. But please, we're still optimists! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10791	Mr Mag. State Secretary has now arrived. Arbitrators with a speaking time of 10 minutes to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10813	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mrs. Colleague! Ladies and gentlemen! This four-party application and this four-party agreement, which is now under the Office Assistance Act, is in several respects a great success for Austria. In particular, I would like to express my thanks to all those involved in this discussion, in particular those in the European Parliament, the National Council, but also to the financial speakers – to Members Krainer, Members of this House, Members of the Kogler and Members of the Booker – who have also worked very constructively and intensively on this matter. I would also like to thank the officials of the Ministry of Finance, because such rapid legislative initiatives – the agreement was finally quickly over the stage – also demand the officials again and again. But it is also very important to me to stress that this is not a bazaar and not a cow trade at all. Instead, it is the beginning or the heights of a living parliamentaryism. I think it is reasonable to call it a bazaar when Parliamentaryism is finally practised as we wish it to, namely, that there be work across party borders on material solutions for Austria and, of course, where the consent options of the parties are and under which premise they are given. It is an agreement on an overall package, and this is ultimately democracy, which is also maintained here in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I also think minority and control rights are important, and, honestly, I consider the FPÖ position to be completely incomprehensible. Domestic taxpayers, domestic taxpayers are still protected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] A greater amount of information shall be provided to those foreigners who are suspected of having tax evasion in their home country, where they are liable to tax. I do not understand at all that the FPÖ is the lawyer of the large-scale, angular, “unscrupulous” tax evasion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the law is necessary for Austria to be removed from the OECD's grey list, and that is right; for it is incomprehensible that we are on this list, we are not part of it! It is therefore right that we create the legal basis for the OECD standard. The OECD has also confirmed it to us: We have already completed two double taxation agreements according to a new standard, ten already initialled, so that they can enter into force before the G-20 meeting in Pittsburgh. We've got twelve done, which is also the limit. We will also work quickly on further work. That is why I am saying this because the question has always been asked what happened in this question about the summer. - That's exactly what: We have negotiated these double taxation agreements quickly and intensively by train. Ladies and gentlemen, above all, I would like to say one very clearly: The local savers are still protected by bank secrecy. The banking secret is still protected for domestic taxpayers, only for foreign financial authorities will there be information about foreign taxpayers. With this law, the Austrian financial administration will also carry out full cooperation in the international context, but in order to say it again: for the Austrian savers nothing changes bank secrecy at all, it remains. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Austrians abroad are affected by this! Tell the truth!]] We have also provided the opportunity for the OECD to finally take care of what its task is to act massively against international tax evasion – against those countries that are really Tax Havens, which are tax havens and protect tax evasions. Tax evasion is never acceptable, and especially in the crisis, states need a correct tax performance because they have larger tasks there. We also need international tax justice and an OECD that is operational where Austria is working as a member – even when it comes to drawing consequences from the crisis. We decided today in the Council of Ministers a Council of Ministers lecture on Austria's approach to a coordinated financial transaction tax at European level. This too is a contribution where we say: As Austria, as a small financial centre, we are heavily involved in this discussion, because we are in favour of further progress in this area of Europe and worldwide. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We advocate a Europe-wide coordinated financial transaction tax. We will draw up a position paper and also a implementation and lobbying strategy, because it is not only Austria alone, but we must work together with other countries. We are doing this because speculation is limited and because it is also a contribution to the financing of public budgets and ultimately social systems. The time is a good one. Last week we were able to read that there was a positive signal from the hort of that country that has so far been against it: The head of British financial market supervision Adair Turner has for the first time declared itself as a well-known British for an international financial transaction tax in the Financial Times and also in other newspapers. In this way, the time is good for us as the Federal Government to set an initiative here. We got the G-20 meeting in September. This is a matter of strict regulation of financial markets. Some Members, like the honourable Member Krainer and the honourable Member, have said it boldly in their speeches: Too little international financial market regulation was the main reason for this crisis. Therefore, we also need to learn lessons – as a world community, as OECD, as a European Union. We need the regulation of credit rating agencies, we need European credit rating agencies, we need the regulation and control of hedge funds and private equity, we need a European financial market supervision that also deserves its name! However, we also need those projects which I support very, very much, which have now been presented by British, French and also by us Austrians, namely the limitation of manager's salaries, as has also been done by the German Bundestag, which value the appropriateness and sustainability criteria, which also provide for publications and increased liability of supervisory councils. These are all points that are being discussed right now in the world. With this law, we are creating a free space today, in which we are heavily discussing and which we also demand from the world. The French, the British and the Germans are for this, we Austrians as well. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's decision on the Act on State Aid Enforcement and subsequently also with the negotiation of the double taxation agreements, we are taking an important step for Austria – namely, fiscal policy, the fight against tax evasion, but also structurally, for more control rights and for a living parliamentaryism. These are all three points I am pleased with. That is why, I think, it is also a good day for Austria today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10898	I call Mr Themessl. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of the next five speakers is 5 minutes each. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e10920	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Values Advisors! Four against one – and all have the same argument: Because the liberals cannot agree to this law – for reasons of reason or also strongly justified by my previous speaker Herbert Kickl – you all have the same line of argument. They say the Freedom Party is protecting foreign tax culprits. They all know – I mean, the four political groups except our liberals – that this is a smooth nonsense. [[Abg. Kickl: Not just that!]] They claim to know exactly that this law, as Mr Schieder has so beautifully said, does not at all mean that domestics do not come to the handcushion at all. Who's telling you that? They make it clear in this law that it also concerns Austrians who have an economic foreign relationship. Now to pretend that this is only happening to large international corporations is absolutely stupid – I take it back – nonsense! You know, this concerns thousands of frontier workers who have an economic foreign relationship. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] It concerns thousands of workers and employees working at international companies who earn their money for several months or years abroad. You know that very well! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's going to disappear!]] Now, as if the OECD and the International were now making suddenly pressure that Austria cannot help but avoid this banking secret, that is far from being achieved. This OECD list isn't only available for a few months, it's been a few years, and you know that! – Mr Kopf, you know that for the essential things you have had no time over the summer, because now you have to look at how you can do and meet the OECD and the International. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: No, wrong!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: This is collective self-hypnosis!]] It's nothing but the beginning of what you wanted anyway. I'm just telling you: Hartz IV says hello. And I'll tell you one thing: You know very well, in the first case, which will be the case before the ECJ, where it is decided that the inequality between Austrians and EU citizens will not apply, this will be tilted, this legislative period will not end, and the banking secret will be completely deleted in Austria! You know that as well as I do! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then you, Minister of Finance, will stand here and proclaim aloud: Yes, you know, we have nothing else left, the ECJ has decided so, so we have to put it into practice. [[Abg. Strache: Substantial procedure!]] That's exactly the way you keep showing up. In the current interview you gave to the magazine “FORMAT”, you said that the Austrians are not coming to the handcushion at all, the banking secret for the Austrians remains, since the train is over. You probably said a year ago, before the last election, as an election log, the banking secret is not tied up at all. [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ.]] These are your statements that lead you to a new ad absurdum every year. You know very well that what you're saying today doesn't apply tomorrow. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to Mr Cap. You know, Mr Cap, if you're still saying what the opposition parties you've drawn so much over the table have negotiated here on examination negotiations and what you can now suddenly examine, I'm telling you: That could have been much easier. If we are talking about Skylink, I tell you that at the last part-session before the summer break, we made a request here in Parliament to have Skylink examined, but neither the SPÖ nor the ÖVP were willing to go here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Now you're pretending you'd be in a terrible way and that everything would be much better in the future, just so that the BZÖ and the Greens will be involved in the displeasure you're doing here. That's what I'm telling you: You pulled her over the table again! These examination skills, which you have negotiated, will not be decided here today. When they are decided, they have not yet been said. At the next meeting? In the night? Is this possible after the next elections in 2013? We don't know all that! [[Abg. Street: On the Sankt-Nimmerleins day!]] I tell you, you want to know from every Austrian what he has. If he still has a few hundred euros of savings on the bank, he will not receive any subsidies, no housing allowances and so on. [[Abg. Kickl: That's the point!]] Hartz IV was decided in Germany at the time by an unhappy red-green coalition. In Austria too, it is not long before the Austrian citizens are faced with exactly the same fact and there is a great shout in this House. One thing I'm saying to you right now: The voters will know how to defend themselves in the future, I guarantee you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11092	Mrs Mag. Lap. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11113	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! They have herewith found: The FPÖ is the patron of the tax evasion. It's a very warm congratulation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We note here that only hot air comes from the Freedom Party – and most of the time this hot air has such a long beard. [[The speaker makes the appropriate gesture.]] [[Abg. Strache: (showing on his beard stoppers) But it's short!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, quite the opposite: On our meeting today, a journalist in today’s “Kurier”, Mrs Leitner, aptly wrote that it was a “fresh cell cure for parliamentarianism”. As it was a year ago, when majority groups across party borders have been found here and very important measures have been adopted, there are very important decisions today. [[Abg. Kickl: Not even a foundation can solve you!]] – You even leave the ground, you always want to control everything, Mr. Kickl! And today you do not want to control anything, because you are the patron of the tax evasioners and the wrong-doers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Negotiations on today's package have taken place in a good climate. There are solutions for long-term demands for more control, for better review, for greater transparency – in order to improve our state structure, in the services for Austrians. The bank package will be examined, as will the contracts that led to it. This was long called for and is a very important measure, because the people in Austria sometimes feel that they are too short, but the banks get too many billion from taxpayers. Here, transparency and transparency can be clarified. The fact that public companies are being examined, where a mastery status stock is given by the public authorities, also brings positive progress, because companies such as Flughafen Wien AG, for example, learn to improve, and also obtain quality certificates with this Skylink project. Another important point is the reorganisation of the test competences among the municipalities in Austria, namely according to economic characteristics or by population. The local government has already recognised the importance of transparency and control, and has proposed last week that directives should be drawn up in financial transactions. It is also about the question of bans on speculation in the communities. It is important that there is also transparency and efficiency in the services that citizens in our country offer directly to local communities – in the areas of care and childcare. We have also come a good step closer to that! They are all familiar with the example of the Burgenlander Gemeinde Strem, where a community with the construction of a care home, an institution for older people has taken over completely. The magazine “NEWS” has revealed that construction costs were exceeded by 40 to 55 percent and that funding was not well planned. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: And what about Oberwart? A red mayor!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You don't even make it in the sausage talker!]] It is important, however, that such facilities for older people are not in danger of being locked up because there has been a misbehaviour here; it is important that such facilities can be operated for people in our country. In the municipality of Strem, the Samaritan League can continue this establishment, i.e., older people in the Church Strem must not be afraid of where they are cared for or cared for – they will be helped. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today's decisions are a better directive to improve the use of tax money. These decisions are an important foundation for upcoming projects. The "Freischcellenkur für Parliamentarism", which we have experienced here today, is also important for upcoming projects such as the administrative reform and other important projects for the people of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11222	Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11243	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Before: If today the Secretary of State has presented the arbitration that an initiative for a financial transaction tax has been decided on in the Council of Ministers, this is to be welcomed. It is as he said that even London is becoming more reasonable and in this respect has recognized the signs of time. I congratulate you on that! Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly grateful to Mr Scheibner, who has rehabilitated Raiffeisen here today. I can remember that some of your group's critical sounds have come here very critically. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Abg. Grosz: They'll be right there!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Strache, when you started your speech today and said that today is a sad day, I thought: Respect! I thought you were taking reference to the 1. September 70 years ago. You have forgotten that – a pity for that! It would have been a chance to make a word of regret from your side. Ladies and gentlemen, he then said that today is a sad day because the banking secret is being carried to the grave. [[Abg. Strache: You carried it to the grave with it!]] The fact is that we are approaching an international standard today, that security is created here for the economy, and that this has no consequences for the banking secrecy of the little man in Austria, for whom you are always acting. You are always in favour of law, order and cleanliness, Mr. Strache. Pretty slowly, I'm a little sorry you didn't scratch the curve here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Like some of my previous speakers, I don't think you're acting for tax evasion, money laundering, black money or anything else. But I have a pretty slow feeling that we made a mistake ourselves. [[Abg. Strache: And I suggest that you make policy for Raiffeisen that you represent the Giebel Cross!]] – Perhaps you have been told too little that might be, otherwise I cannot imagine that you do not take these legitimate arguments into account. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] I don't understand, because you're an enthusiastic football pendant, I've seen you more often with a beautiful blue scarf. A comparison to this: You can also not play football according to Austrian model, if you want to compete international competitions, there are international game rules. [[Abg. Strache: You have to wear the Raiffeisen logo on the chest!]] In the financial world, there are also these international rules of play, and you will have to get used to them very slowly, ladies and gentlemen. If you are always talking about the righteous citizen – this is your diction and expression – I tell you: Nothing happens to him. You know who's a little more passionate? Someone who has eaten something – but something has already happened to this! Ladies and gentlemen, it is an international standard that will be ensured. What is going on, Mr. Cot? [[Abg. Kickl: Eh nothing, because you say that everything remains like that!]] New in § 38 para. 2 Banking Act The following are: For all domestic and foreign court proceedings, this State Aid Enforcement Act will be the crucial issue for foreign tax administration procedures. The breach of banking secrecy is only given in the case of foreign requests for assistance in connection with extraditional or financial criminal proceedings, provided that the Austrian authority confirms the legality of the request for assistance. Do you want to be against it? Not me, ladies and gentlemen! Again and again, the accusation is made that the communities would be under-examined – because I see Dr. Hink from the Austrian municipal government here. Ladies and gentlemen, I am always “very excited” when it is meant that the Court of Auditors would have access to and the audit competence for all communities in Austria, nothing happened. [[Call the BZÖ:Are you for it or against it?]] . I wonder why the debt ratio of the larger municipalities, which are examined by the Court of Auditors, is highest. I wonder why cross-border leasing and so on took place in these communities. There are some questions to be resolved. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: I can explain that!]] I say quite frankly to you: If in some communities such errors have occurred, there have been shortcomings, then the municipal supervisory authority has failed. Show me that in Upper Austria a small community has the opportunity to borrow a loan from a certain level! Show me that a small community in Upper Austria has the opportunity to do such speculative business! You have no chance because it is subject to approval – so that it is clarified, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I myself was mayor for 32 years, and I was also examined by the National Court of Auditors; Thank God – I didn't expect anything else – a white vest. Ladies and gentlemen, as if only the Federal Court of Auditors had the wisdom, it is not right for you to give a false witness to the officials of the Federal Court of Auditors. In addition: The head of the National Court of Auditors is a former official of the Federal Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11390	Next, Mr Grosz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11412	Madam President. High house! Access to Mr Cap: Mr Cap, you spoke here today in your speech on the banking secret of the social welfare state. I would ask you to avoid the term “social welfare state” in the future. In view of the fact that your Federal Managing Director proposed herbs a few days ago, despite the dramatic number of 300,000 unemployed in Austria, to include asylum seekers in the labour market, your statements on the “social welfare state” are an increase in every person suffering from unemployment in Austria from social democracy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Incredible!]] [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, two months ago, since July, we have been discussing and negotiating the easing of banking secrecy, which has now led to a compromise, and I wonder why these two months have not been used to put into concrete legislative proposals the Court of Auditors and the control possibilities, today by your group, the EIA. In the two months, we had to read in Austria that Mr. Schieder was swirling around with the service car in Croatia and Mr. Hahn was led by the chauffeur to sail to the Adriatic by the service car that this German government was on holiday for two months. And in the last days before the meeting, the concession to the opposition will be made quickly – within a few hours – the good and right concession – with regard to expanding the audit competence of the Court of Auditors. But you, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP, but also of the Social Democracy, have forgotten to secure this legal status here today. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I will not agree to this compromise – not because it would be bad in content, no, it is good in content, but because I no longer believe you no longer believe in experience. I wouldn't even give you my pet to go for a walk. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the future, I will also tell you, every time I give one of you by the government parties, whether all the fingers are still on my hand, for, as you are dealing with motions for resolutions, with agreements with handshake, but also with other parties, is well known. 2008 should be remembered to you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. At that time, the National Council adopted a resolution on the maximum price cap for fuels. To date, this has not been implemented, and to date it is ÖVP Minister for Economic Affairs Mitterlehner, who does not even intend to comply with Parliament's decisions and to relieve commuters and drivers in this country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen, from the meat-becoming PPE, namely a motion for a resolution on the harmonisation of pension systems – mostly decided in this House in 2003 – in order to finally equate national officials with the ASVG insured persons, has not been implemented. Where is this harmonisation? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Because of your verbality, because of your lack of handshake quality ad absurdum, this house leads. They are not only latent to your negotiators, they are ultimately also to the Austrians. This can also be seen in the context of our proposal that the Rechnungshof will be able to review the communities in the future. I'm reading in APA reports now: Yes, one will discuss it, says the government, says the ÖVP. We do not want to introduce any more control bodies, and the communities are so great anyway. – I ask You are now quite honest, including you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, why it then had to happen that a mayor of the top Irish city had to live on impulses, committed suicide, because he did not deal with the debts of his community – the state supervision failed, and from a national billing court was never to be seen. I wonder how it could have been that the East Styrian community of Hartberg became the scapegoat of black speculation losses and today is pleading. I wonder how it could have been that the highest Irish municipality of Fohnsdorf is just ahead of the explosion of its budget, because the national supervisory authorities of Red and Black are infiltrated and do not even think of looking at the tax money of the local citizens, and because there has been no case in Styria – at least in the last decades – where the national billing court has actually checked. Many mayors also told me on the weekend that, contrary to your line of the ÖVP, they would be quite sure that the Court of Auditors would be given audit competence, because these mayors, who work honestly and decently, feel the Court of Auditors not as a burden, but as professional advice, which is also on the side and looks at the communities, even in those times when you, Mr Pröll and Mr Lopatka, are bringing the communities to ruin with your policies, with a financial compensation that you have postponed to the year 2013. This will also be told by your own mayor if they do not “cash around ” money from the municipal government and in the functional frameworks of your Raiffeisenverband. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will not agree to this compromise in order to warn you and to make sure that we prove more handshake in the future than in recent years. Because all that your signature bears is no more valuable than a roll of paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11502	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11523	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Unlike my previous speaker, I will agree to this compromise, for a very simple reason: because I think it is good. It is very rare that a majority in the Austrian National Council, a majority of members of the government and members of the opposition force a radical change in government policy! This is a performance of Parliament that should be honoured by members of the government and opposition. The fact that after a year of inconsistency, we are calling on a Finance Minister to switch from the side of the defence of international tax evasion to the side of the rule of law and the persecution of tax evasions is good! I think it is a political dissatisfaction if a member of the BZÖ now gives the ÖVP the opportunity to implement this – and I assume that it is serious for the EIA and SPÖ Members to implement this agreement – before the decision of the National Council has given the floor at all. [[Abg. Grosz: This is the long experience!]] This is not a parliamentary culture! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we want to change something as an opposition and if the government parties are willing to negotiate seriously, please also take the members of the opposition seriously. We are in the word now, and we will try to implement it – and we will control it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] We will also accompany the Minister of Finance on his new path to combating international tax crime. I'll make you, Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll, therefore, is a proposal: There's the British Channel Island of Guernsey. On this British canal island of Guernsey, massive tax is suspended. This is the domain of the British and not the Austrian Minister of Finance. But you, Mr. Finanzminister, could make it clear to the Ministry of Finance and Brussels that you will be careful from now on to ensure that no Austrian companies are taxed there. You know as well as I do that the Austrian airlines have parked €300 million there and with these €300 million under the leadership of the Ötsch Executive Board and under cover by Mr Michaelis from ÖIAG – fully knowing – have withdrawn taxes to the Republic of Austria. And I call on you, Minister of Finance, to recover these taxes from the Austrian Airlines, from Lufthansa, from whomever, because these are taxes that are missing in this Republic and which must be paid by honest taxpayers when dishonest corporate governance withdraws these taxes on Guernsey. However, I would also like to make a very different proposal: There is now a better Parliament in which the rule no longer applies: The ÖDP has the absolute majority because the SPÖs vote in favour of everything and both together have a constitutional majority. These times are over; you have learned this impressively in the last few days. I propose that you do not make the same mistake again in the Eco electricity Act, which is again a matter of two-thirds majority, but negotiate in time and respond to our proposals. I'll tell you exactly what it's all about: Today, for photovoltaics, that is, for solar energy on the roof, we have a funding of €4 million per year. Within a quarter of an hour, the pot was empty. We would need 100 million – and we will demand that, instead of this 4 million, there are 100 million, because we in Austria do not want to start the solar turnaround again as the last, but as far ahead as possible in international competition. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] The OMC is investing hundreds of millions of euros in Iranian gas fields and in Iraqi oil fields tomorrow, and the Austrian solar energy companies, which are world technological leaders, are fighting for every euro of taxes, because domestic demand is stifled by the Federal Government and the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Scheibner: Nabucco!]] In order for Austria to finally make smarter policies in this area and because we know that you cannot be convinced by arguments even here, we will also try to use the two-thirds majority. We need the insight and participation of the two other opposition parties, the BZÖ – which has now worked – and the FPÖ – perhaps we can suggest to the FPÖ that solar energy comes from abroad and that it is therefore useful to vote against everything from the outset. Then we can do it again in the current way. As far as the FPÖ is concerned, I am satisfied with the relevant note that now at last all the people who are pursuing this debate know that the Freedom Party is the party of the criminal foreigners. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: A scandal! That's incredible!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] However, we, the majority in this House, are the parties of honest taxpayers and taxpayers. And that's an important insight. I don't know, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ: Are you talking about Kazakhstan's tax evasion, are you talking about Russian tax evasion, are you talking about tax evasions from the European Union? I just know you're defending tax evasion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] That's fact, explain to your yet-electors! Fortunately, I don't have this delicate task, I can save myself luckily. I am particularly grateful to the members of the EIA, for they had to go politically the widest way of achieving this compromise. This is a change in the political culture in this House, and I hope that we can agree on the Ecostrom Act, which I consider to be at least as important a law, earlier, faster and equally constructive. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11637	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11659	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! In this debate, two terms have been used over and over again, including attacks against my party, the Freedom Party. On the one hand, we are suddenly the protectors of international tax evaders. – If that were true, then we would have been in very interesting society until a few months ago, because both ÖVP and SPÖ and, of course, the BZÖ have defended this banking secret for years – the BZÖ not so long, because it is not yet so long – again and again with teeth and claws, in its entire form. We have even defended it so much, on a normal legal basis, that we have given him constitutional status. That must have had a reason! Was the reason for trying to protect international tax evasion? - Not at all! The reason was that we wanted to protect and further protect our citizens in private law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Klubobmann Strache and other speakers of my group have shown here that this is the beginning of a salami tactic that one will create or dissolve piece by piece, more and more of our banking secrets. This fear, which not only we but also our citizens have, is therefore justified. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You're always just scared!]] It can't be true that here you really subject yourself to the will of the Greens, who want anyway to have the glass people and, if possible, want to take away everything if he was somewhat more diligent than the others. It can't be! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Against tax evasion, one can very well protect oneself as a functioning rule of law. If one suspects that a person is a tax-receipt and that this money is stored abroad, then one can very well impose a financial penalty on it, one can claim that the friend state opens up such opportunities; a request – Mr. Van der Bellen said that – in the form of a rule of law. There will then be a notice that can be fought by means of an appeal. That's how it goes, and that's what you can do. Ladies and gentlemen! The matter of cow trade was also constantly being dealt with. I ask you: What does one have to do with the other? Not to mention that the beginning of World War II has nothing to do with the resolution of banking secrecy either. [[Abg. Krainer: Yes! Yes! Yes!]] What does one have to do with the other? The Court of Auditors will examine the implementation of the bank package within the framework of a special audit decided by the National Council. A good thing, a wonderful thing, you can also agree as a government party, even if the others do not go with the government in the matter of banking secrecy. So: There is no connection here, it has been traded here, in the sense of a cow trade. The basis for the Court of Auditors' examination of communities is to be re-arranged. This is a good thing and absolutely right, you can agree to it – without a trade in the way: If you agree to bank secrecy, you'll get it. - That's a cow trade! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors should be able to examine Skylink airport terminal – a matter of course, which of course also the government parties would have to agree to, but they will only agree if the others agree on banking secrecy! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Why don't you agree?]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually a cow trade, and so should you see. That is not high diplomacy, and that is not high parliamentary culture.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11749	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11770	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! I did not know at all that you, Mr Weinzinger, are the new Agriculture Spokesman of the FPÖ – because you are constantly talking about cow trafficking. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] If we are discussing here in Parliament and if there are new interesting discussions here in Parliament and hopefully solutions, then this is not a cow trade, but a lively parliamentarianism! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Just like this law on the enforcement of military aid, it has been necessary to have a serious discussion about community examinations at last. For a long time it was discussed whether municipal examinations were necessary; more or less yes. I believe that the communities are “verified”. And if there are difficulties in the communities, then this review has failed, but not the commons themselves, I would like to make it quite clear. If you imagine that the municipalities are examined by audit committees, by the respective district headquarters, by the audit departments of the municipal departments and also by the national accounting authorities, then there can be something wrong. It is therefore time to define clear guidelines and competences here. Ladies and gentlemen! My community is being examined by the bra. The conduct test by the bra shall be reported to the country. The country then practically checks the bra again. Then the whole thing comes back to the community. And then there's a test report. It takes at least half to three-quarters of a year. That's what I'm asking myself: Does that make sense? I think it is high time to bring the national accounting courts and the Federal Court of Auditors to a table and make a clear definition of the audit procedure. However – and I fear that –: If we involve national accounting courts in the municipal audits and come to a concept, then there are nine different national laws, then this is regulated differently in each national accounting court. I wonder how this obstacle can be overcome. But I am very optimistic that there will be a solution. But we have to be very careful. I have looked closely at the home page of the Upper Austrian State Accounting Court, and this means, among other things, that the various national laws differ, especially in terms of tasks and independence of the control bodies. Ladies and gentlemen! The independence of the control bodies of a national audit court must be ensured in the case of the municipal audit. It cannot be that national accounting courts are affected by the colour of the national government. Independence is essential! [[Abg. Großruck: Or the local authorities!]] Or the local authorities. That's right, Mr. Großruck. It is also the question of why a district headquarters team as a national service has to be moved forward again and again. In general, it is the question of whether this old k. and k. institution of a district headquarters must really be there. We can now solve all these questions in the working group used. I hope that this will happen very soon and will be treated very intensively.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11822	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11843	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Weinzinger! If you're 70 today. The anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War does not want to mention these, of course you do not mind, but it is your matter, but to criticize that a number of previous speakers establish a connection between the Second World War and the European Agreement, evidence of a peculiar sense of history. [[Abg. Kickl: Others did not do that before you either!]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: The banking secret!]] I would like to tell you this in peace, but also in all clarity. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is, of course, in connection with the proposals that we are discussing today and which we have to decide on. Of course, it was a matter of doing the same thing here in Europe. This is also the reason, Mr Weinzinger, why Austria has been very slow for a long time and has been waiting for a long time to be involved in this European and international development, because it only makes sense to close such loopholes if you know exactly that elsewhere these loopholes are still open. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] In the meantime, however, it has succeeded – and to this end the Minister of Finance has been extremely congratulated – in Europe, especially in those countries where such loopholes still existed to close them in the same step with Austria. That is why we decide on these proposals today, Mr Weinzinger. It is, I almost wish to say, a childish reaction to talk about a cow trade here, because everyone who works here in the house knows very well that political materials are linked again and again. Of course, it is legitimate to try to reach a compromise when stakeholders have different concerns. Mr Weinzinger! I mean, to do so virginally here, by presenting it as if such a procedure would be strange to the liberals, is really, I almost say, a childish approach. By the way, the other two opposition parties may also be reminded that, of course, they have lost virginity at the latest here – and I must say that I never believed in virginity in these questions. That must be said, in case you later criticize the government parties if there is such or similar balance of interest. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that what is required here in the Banking Act on the one hand and, on the other hand, in the Civil Service Enforcement Act is an absolutely sensible measure. I also believe that the considerations that the opposition has made, namely that a more controlling should be guaranteed in the future, are quite reasonable. What is critically seen in the area of the communities is that one must be careful not to overshadow the communities with bureaucracy. That's important. Of course, it is also just as important that the appropriate conduct is given. You have to say that clearly. There's a proper compromise. It's on the table. It should be of interest to the whole House that we are also on the side of the law on tax matters and not on the side of the arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11905	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e11927	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! If I talk about the banking issue today, I have to explain the following: I come from a black federal country, and there too the “Giebelkreuz” reigns very strongly and forms politics. Mr Auer mentioned this earlier. I can't keep it from you: In Vorarlberg, the Raiffeisenbank is very busy with politics. Black dictatorship not only through the gable cross, black all-power in the federal state of Vorarlberg and in almost all of the 96 municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, that's how it looks! That is why the extension of the Court of Auditors' audit to the municipalities is urgently needed. We from the BZÖ do not place the slogan for nothing with our top candidate Wolfgang Maurer: “Because a caretaker needs it!” This caretaker needs it not only in the communities, but also in the federal and the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we will offer this caretaker to you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to give you some examples of why. – The village symbolism, which prevails in Vorarlberg, screams to heaven. I already have to address the FPÖ. My beloved municipality of Nenzing – the blue municipality of Nenzing, Mr. Strache, your mayor, is about to sell to the Turkish state, namely to a Turkish association called ATIP, a property. [[Abg. Strache: That's not right what you're talking about! Every time you have to give the best of falsehoods! That's wrong what you're telling me!]] That's a fact! But local citizens who want to buy a property for a slums are rejected because there is no land. You have to keep that in mind once! [[Abg. That's wrong! No one can hear the untruth you give the best here! You mustn't be surprised that you're 2 percent!]] This is not an untruth! Then explain to me where the 6 million Schillings that Mr Egger has put to the side in the splitting of the Vorarlberg Freemans have been left! They never showed up again! This has even led to the resignation of a former country vice president from FPÖ in Vorarlberg. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Look at that! Ask colleague Themessl, he knows! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But there are other examples, such as the municipality of Egg in the Bregenz Forest. There border lines are drawn through the municipality itself. Citizens are not informed. There's reason for the communities. That too will be to be examined. The court has been playing there. The Minister for Justice will receive a lot of mail in this respect. Another example is the red municipality of St. Gallenkirch, where the mayor processes against parish members, which is costing them so that they can detour a property. There is nothing going on there without the involvement of the black state government. People stay at the cost, as it were. This is the way to deal with the parish citizens in Vorarlberg! That's why control is important. There's a need for something to happen. Therefore, it is necessary that the BZÖ enter the country day there, because one crow does not hack out the other eye. It doesn't surprise me either, because the crows are known to be all black. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am already excited whether Mr Sausgruber will speak in terms of government and whether the ÖVP will stand for the reviews of the municipalities in the House. I'll take you by the word! You're gonna hear this from me every time you don't have to put it through. Now I can recommend one more thing to Vorarlberg's citizens: ==References====External links== September, the BZÖ! [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Make the cross there! Then you have control! Then you'll get control! This is necessary in this federal state – and not that the “Giebel Cross” rules there! It's important that color comes into play there. I can make the offer to you, ladies and gentlemen on the TV screens, and this is my offer: We are for security and control! That's how it must be!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12018	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12040	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home in front of the television screens! Ladies and gentlemen from the FPÖ, please leave the cows in the stable or on the pasture of the Inn district and, on the other hand, take it seriously that we need tax justice and tax equality! How can you explain that a minimum pensioner has worked for her bitter savings – for her savings for a lifetime! – 25 percent of Kest must pay and foreign millionaires and billionaires can park their money for free in the small Walser Valley, the border banks and elsewhere, and consume their billions tax-free? [[Abg. Kickl: That's not what anyone wants!]] Explain You do this to the people on the spot! They pay Kest, and the others cash off: in the form of tax privileges, tax evasions. – That is unexplainable! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the reason is to be a day of reason, and it is reasonable to conclude the loopholes of tax evasion, that at international level the standards are aligned, that Austria is excluded from the ‘grey list’, and it is also reasonable that this decision, this legal decision, is linked to the Act of Enforcement, with additional control rights. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: I'm asking for this!]] You are right, Mr Pröll, when you say: It is a progress towards democracy policy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] You have a medal with two sides: One side means tax revenue, tax evasion should no longer be lucrative. The other is control, effective use, economic use of taxpayers, and this is what the Court of Auditors stands for. Therefore, the competence of the Court of Auditors needs to be expanded, and we can do so today. [[Abg. Kickl: But you don't!]] Today we are able to achieve this with the actual, so to speak, dominant domination of companies by public hands. That's where the Court of Auditors will examine. The Court of Auditors may also examine the banks indirectly. [[Abg. Kickl: You went to the government parties on glue here!]] And the Court of Auditors is finally given the opportunity to look into where money has been misused at the lower level, in the communities. This is a coherent package, beyond any trade. This belongs together to: Tax revenue and expenditure in an efficient form. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today's decision on reason also points to the future. We have other joint projects. It is about Austria becoming even more attractive as an economic location for the eco-industrial industry. It is about the fact that we have interesting possibilities for feeding, regulations and charges that allow us to finally create jobs in Austria, which we have already achieved in Upper Austria. Remember: 15,000 eco-jobs through eco-investment! And we need 50,000 in Austria. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Also in Upper Austria. Definitely! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] Rudi Anschober has already managed with his investment policy to secure, create jobs and set the course for the future. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, you must make this possible for the whole of Austria. Remember, if we continue to negotiate the next two-thirds of matter, when it comes to the eco electricity law, when it comes to fair feed-in tariffs, that the industry companies that produce from us produce not only for foreign countries, but also for the domestic market! This is a question of import tariffs. Let reason also! You have shown it: It's about the Civil Service Enforcement Act and it's about control rights. Why should it not be in the eco-industrial sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12147	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Königshofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12169	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Mr. Pilz – now he has just left the plenary room – I would like to point out to you your accusations that we liberals would be protectors of foreign tax fraud, vehemently back! That's not true. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pilz, I call on you to come at your own door. Their party friends in Upper Austria have insulted foreigners in e-mails on the Internet as canaks. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Stop!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] So get in front of your own door and squirt You don't poison the liberals! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Stop it!]] Now it's up to you. – Ladies and gentlemen, here again we see a classic example of salami tactics in EU policy: What was not promised to us in 1994 before the vote on EU accession? [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Blood chocolate!]] Schilling and D-Mark stay, it was called back then. Mr Minister, since 2002 we have lost these hard currencies and exchanged them for a "teuro". The anonymous savings book was then preserved. That's been over a long time. A fairy tale! And now it's about the banking secret that is not supposed to be affected according to your statements. The banking secret is a very delicate thing. It regulates the relationship between bank and customers in relation to outside third parties, such as competitors of a customer or the authority. And here you open the door, here you let it touch. And we reject that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This banking secret, Minister, has already been broken. If a suspicion existed, it could be broken through by judicial decision and the accounts could be opened. Today you open the locks, especially for the German Minister of Finance, Peer Steinbrück, who is doing in an immense way. What is happening here, namely to put pressure on the international scene, is to be found at all. The EU is putting pressure on it. There it is Mr. Steinbrück with his “seventh cavalry before Yuma”, who by the way was never stationed there. But the OECD is also pressured. That's why I'm now asking the question of other so-called offshore financial centers. Mr. Minister, what about the Channel Islands? They belong, they say, not to Britain. They do not elect MEPs in the English Parliament. The Channel Islands are the private property of the English crown. They are the private property of the English queen, and therefore they make their own financial laws, are thus outside the EU's regulations, can do what they want, and bunk not only billions of euros there, but trillions of euros. And no one does anything about it. The question is: What about Delaware in the USA? That's just what it says: Well, these privileges have been there for 200 years, you can't do anything about it! Question: What about Nebraska? – Nebraska in the USA does not recognise any OECD standard. There you have to look for everything separately. Now, just about the German situation. – In December of 2004, the Minister of Finance Eichel submitted the proposed law on the collection of tax law. And Peer Steinbrück still benefits from it today. A banker referred to this system as: Echel's system – which has taken over Steinbrück – is what Stasi chief Mielke would have liked but could not afford. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this must be broken on the tongue: A GDR peak system, introduced with the resources of the Federal Republic of Germany, where over 500 million accounts can be controlled by the social offices simply by demand via the BaFin! That's a terrible thing. I warn you to support such a system here in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also warn you of the blue eye to believe that the banking secret for Austrians remains, because: Once a case comes before the European Court of Justice, the call for equal treatment will come immediately. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have a historically important day – you have already said it –: ==References== September 1939, 70 years ago, World War II broke out. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you: You can prevent that from happening on the 1st floor. September 2009 the bureaucrats war against the glass citizens breaks out, and reject this proposal!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12288	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12310	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! ==References====External links== Königshofer completely inappropriate. However: I didn't expect anything else from someone who has Nebraska as a political model and who wants the D-Mark again, and I'm not surprised either. Ladies and gentlemen! Imagine, here in the house, everyone doesn't think about it anymore: What is the use of its own party, but only of it: What is the use of Austria, what is the benefit of people in our country? – Such a similar thing has happened today in the Civil Service Enforcement Act, and I believe that we can rightly be proud of it – with one exception, and that is the FPÖ. [[Abg. Scheibner: That would be nice!]] [[Abg. Kickl: “Such a similar thing! ”]] [[Abg. Kickl: We are closer to the interests of Austrians than you are!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! This is like football: If a person is constantly on his buttocks, he's not allowed to play with him at some point. [[Abg. Kickl: You'll decide now!]] And if anyone in politics never tries to work on solutions, but is always just blasphemous, abusive, abusive and criticised, but never says what he wants to do better, then no one will take him seriously any more. [[Abg. Neubauer: The Haider in Upper Austria is predestined for this!]] [[Abg. Grossruck: (To Abg. New builder) I'm right about you!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! But not only I, but probably especially the Upper Austrians and the Vorarlbergers would like to know why you want to protect foreign tax evasioners. [[Abg. Kickl: I would like to know why you still operate your foundations!]] You have not been able to explain it in any speech: Why are you the only party in this House trying to protect foreign tax evaders? [[Abg. Kickl: If you want what you say, you don't need what you decide!]] The Vorarlbergers, the Upper Austrians, but also the rest of Austria, will ask themselves this question and raise suspicions, because that rightly suspects you. [[Abg. Kickl: They will ask you why you want to employ asylum seekers! You should also give an answer to this!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have economically difficult times, and I believe it is now time to join forces, to take common paths in order to deal with the major obstacles ahead of us. That is why this must not be the last time that we as a Parliament are working together, that we as Parliament are finding the right solutions. And we in Parliament, but also the spectators will remember who once again was not present, who once again just stood here as a mouthherd and said how it is not going, but with no word, how it actually goes. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! No word to improve Austria, no word on how to protect Austrian jobs, no word on how to improve this law! [[Abg. Kickl: We like to explain this to you! But first... once prevent one from closing one after another!]] Just criticizing is a little too little. Policy is there to find solutions to find solutions. You haven't found one, you haven't articulated either, you're just against it. And you have to go to sleep tonight as the only party in this house with the addition to have nothing changed and improved today in Austria. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Good night story! Lovely!]] The voters will make their choice in Upper Austria and in Vorarlberg accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12502	Mrs. Colleague! Can I assume that you withdraw the term “Maul” with the expression of regret? [[Abg. May. Rudas: (on the way to their seat) Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes!]] Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: It seems to me that this withdrawal would not be very serious!]] Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12555	Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of a correct case, I would like to refer to a statement or rather to a question or almost an accusation by Mr Moser, who said: How can you account for the fact that, for example, minimum pensioners in Austria deliver 25 percent Kest, but rich people who park money with us don't pay anything? – I want to correct that, because this is nonsense and is not right. The fact is that the source tax for German investors has been applicable in Austria since 2000. A total of 40 million of these have already been delivered. – This is the truth, and I ask you to focus on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress once again why it is so important to agree to the easing of the banking secret that we are going to decide today, and I would also like to say in advance that it is quite welcome that we have reached a four-party agreement in this respect, and this also shows that it is quite reasonable and qualitative work in this House. This is also a good sign, given that I hope we can start in a constructive period, in a constructive new half-year. The easing of banking secrecy is therefore so important – and you know this, ladies and gentlemen, very well – because it is also about the good reputation and the international reputation. This is at stake because of the banking secrecy. Of course, it is unfortunate that Austria has been on the so-called grey list since April and that we do not adhere to international standards on tax issues. It is essential to ensure the credibility of Austria's financial and economic location in the long term, and this is what we are doing with today's decision. Apart from that, the European Investment Bank's declared sanctions against Austria would also be a major damage to this country. It must be borne in mind that in 2008, for example, the sum of all loans from the European Investment Bank to Austrian companies amounted to about €1.3 billion. In the future, when it comes to international projects, we would probably look through the finger. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, we are of course also concerned with cooperation with our international partners at stake. Here again, I would remind you that half of what Austria deserves comes from exports. In this respect, it would be totally nonsense if we were to isolate ourselves completely in the international sector. The Act of Enforcement leads to a better exchange of information with foreign authorities as regards the disclosure of bank accounts from foreigners in Austria, and this decisive approach to tax evasion is an important step towards greater transparency. Finally, what I would like to say: Of course, the current legal situation remains valid for Austrian citizens – and this is an important point. This is nothing else, ladies and gentlemen, than what our Minister for Finance, Josef Pröll, promised already in May of this year. You can see that he keeps his word, too. That is why I ask you: Admit yourself to a clarification, to the international standards, and we will also implement the OECD guidelines here in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12612	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12633	Mr President. High house! This law, this enforcement law, is actually a reasonable law in principle. It has nothing to do with EU accession, although the opposite is claimed. We should probably even decide whether we are in the European Union or in the UN. It's just, in principle, reasonable. It is also reasonable, in principle, what has been negotiated against. And in principle, it is not unreasonable to assume first that the Austrian People's Party also holds the floor. If you don't do it, ladies and gentlemen, we will have opportunities to remember it well in the next two-thirds. So I don't have in myself... – Yes. [[Abg. Grosz: In principle, the ÖVP does not hold a word!]] Again: We should never doubt the possibility of improvement by political parties. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They will see that we will also have the opportunity to respond if they need our approval in the next two-thirds. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: What is against this package except in principle “we are simply against”? Nothing! I have followed the debate closely: There has been no factual argument to be against this package. There has been no factual argument except that the schilling should be reintroduced that the EU is evil. But all of this has nothing to do with the Civil Service Enforcement Act. That has nothing to do with it. Therefore, one has to talk about how consistent the line of the FPÖ really is. So: First of all, we adopt a law to try to save the banks – a bank rescue package; a whole convolut. FPÖ agrees. A year later, however, FPÖ is opposed to us controlling this package! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: This is stupid!]] What's that supposed to be, ladies and gentlemen? I am glad that this debate has been held live because the Austrian can take a picture of what can be thought of by a party that says a year ago: Bank rescue package yes!, and a year later says: No, we do not control this, the Court of Auditors does not need to control it, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What to think of a party that has a complete sugar from its chairman in a live debate, pouring the Raiffeisen sector, in particular the Raiffeisen leadership, from top to bottom, a bank, a system bank so to speak, declared a state enemy and a year later – or not even a year, but that is, I believe, now four months ago – four months later says: No, we have to protect the banks from themselves, we have to protect the banks from being able to control too much there!Unknown term type: "%s".? – What is to be looked for, ladies and gentlemen, except for total political confusion? And, please, don't make the mistake that you are looking for profound political motives! [[Cheerfulness of Mr Rädler and Mr Großruck.]] These things are a lot more banaler: You just don't know yourself there and you act out of the moment, just like a stop in the gastric pit. What about such a party, ladies and gentlemen, protecting the millionaires? And believe You're telling me: Those who have bank accounts from abroad in Austria – whether they are Austrian citizens or foreign citizens – do not play a role here, who want to take advantage of tax protection, who are not among the small people. These are actually the ones – you can check it out – in which it is retiring to withdraw taxes! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer]] And this is not the little man whom Mr Strache proposes to represent, ladies and gentlemen. But look, if you're trying to find an explanation, then it could have been on vacation. Ibiza – it is known that comet drinks are in place. There, people drink as much alcohol as they can from any of the insect cubes with long tubes. That could be an explanation, ladies and gentlemen, that what comes from that. This is the danger that you can take with holiday resorts. But it is not, as I have read, the only danger that exists there. There are other dangers there. They're much more eye-catching. They then even lead to a corresponding hairing in the appearance. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ as well as with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us put it there. No one who has such a political line can claim to be taken seriously from this day on. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No one should make the mistake of taking such a political party seriously. For me alone, the Skylink test would be enough reason to agree to this package today. Where hundreds of millions of people are killed, where a privilege driver like Mr Kaufmann with three pensions, with pension privileges without number evades taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors must check! That's enough reason for me today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12726	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12748	Mr President. Lords of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! Today, in the context of the discussions on the Office’s Enforcement Act, it has already been repeatedly pointed out how important good parliamentary cooperation is. That's her too. Actually, before I came to this House, I also presented myself in this way: that proposals are received by all and then looked for solutions constructively. We Greens have also shown that we can make constructive proposals and that this can also make improvements. And we certainly want to continue to do so. My colleague, Peter Pilz, has referred to the Eco electricity Act, which will be one of the next important points for debate and decision-making. It is not about promoting individual businesses or individual interested persons, but about investing in the future of our country, about important changeovers – about changing positions that will be crucial to whether we will manage the energy crisis, whether we will have environmentally friendly, independent energy supply in Austria in the future, or will continue to be dependent on gas and oil imports; whether we are able to cope with the climate crisis, whether we can finally reduce dangerous greenhouse gases in Austria, and thus also be credible at the climate conference in Copenhagen in December; and third, whether we are able to cope with the economic crisis as well. This is because we support and promote Austrian companies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, in recent years there has been a lot of failure in the various Federal Governments. A complete stop has been made in all renewable energy sources due to a lack of framework conditions. We have fallen back to 50th place in the climate protection index, behind China! However, companies in the eco-sector have export rates of up to 98 percent. In part, the companies are very good – but not because there are good conditions in Austria, but in spite of the framework conditions. And it is very unfortunate that Austria has not so far supported these companies, which can create important jobs for the future in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The support action of the Climate and Energy Fund at the beginning of August in the field of photovoltaics has also shown that the Austrians have come to very close notice that we need environmentally friendly and independent energy supply in Austria and that only renewable energy sources will be sustainable in the long term. Within a few minutes, the promotion action was overshadowed several times, and the system is completely collapsed. That is why we now need a proper eco electricity law in order to be able to support these people accordingly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We Greens have very concrete ideas: We finally need to raise the lid in the Ecostrom Act. We need – and this too has already been addressed – €100 million for households, so that they finally have the opportunity to switch to independent energy supply. And in the long term – and we have to agree on this even today – we have to proceed to finally implement an eco electricity law in Austria, which is the same as in Germany as the Renewable Energy Act. Mr Rudas has already made a comparison to football. In football we meet with Germany very often. Unfortunately, we seem far behind and may not be able to find the connection as quickly as possible. We have this opportunity under the Ecostrom Act, and we need to take advantage of it. I therefore invite everyone – all parties, opposition parties and government parties – to continue here together. We will address you, bring in our proposals, and I hope that this time too all the parties represented here in Parliament will cooperate constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12820	From now on, free speaking time limit applies. Mr Fichtenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12841	Mr President. Dear Governments on the Government Bank! It has already been said enough to today's bill, which is chordd without the Freedom Party. Only two very sober remarks. The completion of the audit competence of the Court of Auditors, contrary to the propaganda distributed here, will not result in the Constitutional Court not having to decide in the event of the dispute of competence – whether there is a test competence or not – even if that is the case in the recast of Article 126b paragraph. 2 B-VG is so contained, because only in the explanatory statement is referenced to Skylink, and known The explanatory statement is only an aid instrument for the interpretation of the clear word of law. That's nothing. In the application in accordance with § 99 para. 1 GOG on the conduct of the so-called bank rescue package lacks determinations that would actually be quite gripped, whether – and in particular in the performance of the bank assistance package – the credit will arrive at the consumer. There is too little legislative text to enter into the banking law an obligation of banks. So that's all sand in the eyes of the gullibles or blue-eyeds, what I know. So a real recast of provisions not yet existing is not included in today's events. But something very essential. On current occasion, it is worth looking beyond the edge of the plate. We are talking today about finances and the economy of the state, and there is a law that is anti-bourgeois and anti-economic, which has already been debated several times. I'm talking about the fee law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The abolition of the fee law is a necessary requirement of the hour. If someone closes a lease, the state will cash. If someone gets a credit from a bank, he has to pay a credit fee. This is no longer an acceptable withdrawal of the citizen, who has long been abolished! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Referring to the fall-like construction, I refer to the following: There is the subsidiary character of the right to charge, i.e. if a written agreement has been made on a civil property for which no tax liability exists. Now the inheritance tax and the gift tax have been abolished. That is why we have the abandonment of the subsidiarity process. Therefore, a written agreement on an allocation of buildings would now be subject to fees by 1 or 2 percent of the basis of assessment. I want to know if someone in this house is so clear – probably not. But the citizens are being put in a trap. The abolition of the Fees Act will be initiated by us in the near future, and I am now inviting us to agree to this required regulation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12908	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12929	Ladies and gentlemen! Transparent, fair and progressive tax systems and their enforcement are a very, very important basis for ensuring public revenue and therefore also a basis for redistribution, on the one hand, but also for creating technical and social infrastructure, but on the other hand also for price corrections by, for example, linking costs for the environment to market prices. Globalisation, as we now have, just under neoliberal premise, leads to an even greater mobility of capital and to even greater cross-border activities of transnational corporations and thus also to a massive weakening of national tax systems. The Tax Justice Network has calculated that in 2005 alone only wealthy individuals parked about 11.5 billion US dollars in offshore centres, i.e. in other figures, that some 225 billion US dollars are withdrawn from the Fiskus. In this case, only Vessels and no companies at all. If one were to expect that, this volume of funds withdrawn from the public would still be a lot greater in the case of weitems. If you have this in mind, it is also clear that this means that states and the people, the inhabitants of these states, will be deprived of resources that would actually be legally available to them. Special developing countries lose around eight times more money per year through such mechanisms than they get through official development cooperation funds, and this tax relief, tax evasion means for developing countries $900 billion in illegal financial flows lost for them. Tax havens thus allow the drain of capital in a very large style. They undermine, in particular, the possibility for developing countries to develop on their own initiative, from their own tax revenues, education, health, infrastructure, poverty reduction, whatever, and they rob people of their livelihood and development base. To deal with such tax havens at a global level requires, on the one hand, international effective, powerful instruments, including a strong UN, and I think that we must in the short term vehemently insist that these tax havens be closed so that dictators, carcrats, can no longer be able to spend their understated assets in a tax-saving manner elsewhere while at the same time erode the rule of law. Our current OECD implementation is a small step in this direction, an important contribution to making globalisation social. In addition, we will have many more to do, for example, try to introduce a gender-friendly, redistributive and progressive tax system, including international taxes. I very much welcome the Federal Government's initiative on financial transaction tax today. Transaction taxes would be a proven means of getting to grips with financial flows on the one hand and raising the resources needed for international global challenges such as climate change, such as development needs, on the other hand. Thirdly, there is also much more need for transparency in the profits of multilateral corporations. I would be pleased if there were also broad majority in this Parliament on these issues. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12977	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e12999	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If one has followed the debate of the present day closely, then some comparisons have also been noted that have been drawn by previous speakers, for example, financial crisis, as if with this limitation of banking secrecy one could solve the financial crisis or could have solved it years ago, totalitarian regimes, the end of World War II. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] If one is not prepared to agree to banking secrecy, to negotiate here, then one acts totalitarianly, and that is also a way to a world war. Or a mandate, the municipality of Strem in the Burgenland, i.e. the other extreme, but forgets that there is another larger municipality, namely Oberwart, where €5 million is due to lack of control and due to the lack of control. may have been destroyed by the mayor – a red community, ladies and gentlemen! But the fact is, and this is the most important thing for me, that the Minister of Finance argued quite differently a few months ago when it came to defending the banking secret. He meant he's got all the instruments in his hand to get tax culprits on the syllables. Now I wonder, he said the untruth at the time or today. At least one of them must be the case. If we are debating banking secrecy today, I must also address a subject that is of great importance to all of us, namely the BAWAG and the owner of the BAWAG, because millions of account movements are running over the BAWAG, €8 billion of our money is running over the BAWAG and has become known that the BAWAG owner, namely the Cerberus locust fund, has come into financial difficulties. In the last month alone, investors have deducted 5.5 billion dollars of capital. That's a lot of money. A new idea has now been born. A former finance minister, John Snow, was hired, who is on the road during a road show for BAWAG. This reminds me of someone, a man who was last Minister of Finance for the ÖVP and was on the road for Mr. Meinl. This, too, has not led to success, and I also think that John Snow Cerberus cannot lead to success. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For us, a time window actually opens. The BAWAG is our home bank. Why still?, we ask ourselves, if this bank is mostly part of a locust fund and not an Austrian owner, unfortunately. Now we have to think about it, we are actually shooting at BAWAG's participation capital, or would it not be wiser, now, where Cerberus is under pressure, to give up shares, but to see if we could acquire these shares for ourselves and thus also make a contribution to finally solving the credit clamp that there is undoubtedly in Austria. Because, although we have invested a lot of money in the banks, the fact remains in those institutions which, in part, also have a little to blame for experiencing this financial crisis, that these institutions do not pass on the financial resources to the private consumers to the extent we wish. We could put pressure on a bank with a majority ownership share to solve this credit clamp. Therefore, our proposal not to make this participation capital available to us, but to really participate in the bank. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution by Mr Ddr. Königshofer, Ing. Hofer concerning BAWAG-P.S.K. ................................................................................................ The National Council may decide: “The Federal Government is invited to take the measures necessary to implement the shares of the US company Cerberus in the BAWAG-P.S.K. under the Financial Market Stabilisation Act. to acquire for the Republic of Austria’. Ladies and gentlemen, this would be an important measure that we could now implement. If we don't, what will Cerberus do? - What he did on the best can: fillet and sell. And that can't be in our best interests.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13082	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13158	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13180	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Without question, Austria is a powerful, wealthy, but also a small country. A small country should do a lot of things, just not go into isolation. As far as Grey List, OECD, banking secrecy and data exchange are concerned, we have probably been in danger of getting into this isolation or isolation over the last few months. Today is a good day when we take a very big and decisive step out of this isolation. It is not good, or was not good, as the last and only Member State of the European Union on this ominous grey list of states that have said yes to OECD standards for a longer or more short time, but have not implemented them, at least not yet. The states that are on this list with us read like a table of contents of Caribbean island states, other holiday savings, tax havens, but not necessarily the states with which we want to measure ourselves on a level playing field. So good it came so far. It's not good that we came to this grey list. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would have expected a lot more EU solidarity there and there. If at G8 or G20 level things are If they are closed, they are of considerable scope, but the European Union is also represented there, but not ourselves. So I would not only like to limit this to Mr Steinbrück and a minister of a Member State, a well-friended neighboring country, but, as I said, I would have expected a little more solidarity here. I do not entirely agree with the division that many colleagues have used here today, it would be a general easing of banking secrecy. - It's not that. It is, if one wants to do so, a easing of the banking secret for tax foreigners, but not for tax residents, whereby I can quite equal Austrians and tax residents here. In fact, this National Council has little influence in terms of tax legislation, we do not want to have any influence on what Austrians, who are professional in Germany, in the USA or elsewhere, are responsible for tax there. But quite, very important – and this is what I consider to be the great success of our team, led by Josef Pröll – is that it has succeeded in limiting these changes in banking secrecy to tax foreigners and preventing a change in banking secrecy, including a relief for tax residents, for Austrians. That's another positive signal that day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We want a banking secret that prevents the glass bank customers, especially the glass Austrian bank customers. But we don't want to protect the tax evasion. I am one of those who, like many other colleagues, ask: What has happened to the FPÖ, which today is going to this line to continue to want to protect potential tax evaders from abroad? The collaterals are built-in. It needs concrete tax procedures. There are no mass and stock surveys, legal protection is guaranteed. Minister of Finance Josef Pröll has already explained that nothing can happen to you about such data transfers. So good it's so far, good that we're from this grey list. And on a day when, in the end, it is also worth noting that the number of unemployed has increased by nearly 30,000 jobseekers, and on a day when, apart from everything else, we must also bear in mind that we are facing a not easy autumn in terms of the labour market, in terms of economic conditions, it is important that this real damocles sword, which is now also hanging over Austria's economy for months, is now not an all-party decision-making, but at least four out of five parties are wise enough to take into account the interests of this country, the workers and the location. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13237	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13258	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! Today, Mr Pröll, Minister of Finance, said that he is on the side of the EU and the OECD. It's his right. We from the Freedom Party are on the side of the Austrians, the citizens of our state. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For us today is really not a good day, because another fundamental right of the Austrians is today sacrificed at the altar of the EU and the OECD. The speakers who spoke in front of me also confirm this. I firmly believe that banking secrecy has also died for the Austrians as a result of a non-binding OECD recommendation. You can be sure that the first foreign investor in Austria will complain of equal treatment in order to demonstrate discrimination before the EU and the banking secret for all Austrians, for nationals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] – Mr Ikrath! I hear you in the background. There is already the legal possibility to prosecute tax sinners in Austria. This also ultimately confirms the head of the section in the Federal Ministry of Finance, which lastly stressed that the current right would be fully enough to pursue tax penalty. Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised by the indifference, yes, the coldness and EU-hearness shown here by the ÖVP, who understands all the EU requirements and thus betrays the Austrian cause without a defense and without When and But. There are also voices in the ÖVP, which have, of course, become quite calm. For example, EU Head of Delegation, Strasser, on 6 June. May 2009 – I quote – explains to the press: ‘Steinbrück is said to ‘pack up campfrethorics’’. ‘Austria is ready to exchange information in case of concrete suspicions, but there will be no automatic exchange of information.’ He added: “There can roar from Germany, whoever wants.” Mr. Treichl said, the banking secret offers the certainty that the state cannot see every citizen without reason and everywhere. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: That's exactly what we do, Mr. Colleague! That's it!]] Mr Rothensteiner said that the banking secret was protecting customers from undue redundancies by the authorities. The mere calling of foreign offices could not be sufficient reason to break bank secrecy. – But you do it in this case. But one thing is still very close to my heart. Mr Ewald Stadler, next to whom I have been sitting for some time here, speaks of confusion of the Freedom Party. For me, the BZÖ's attitude is very incomprehensible, I must say, after Mr. Peter Westenthaler declared in June that there is no question of evading banking secrecy, also confirmed by Mr. Strutz, who was on 27 June. In June, the BZÖ referred to the protection of banking secrecy. That is why, after the rejection of the request, Parliament also rejected the request for relief. – Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen from the BZÖ! This means that only the FPÖ is on the side of the population, and so it will remain in the future. On the four points, this cow trade, I would like to make a motion for a resolution on salary restrictions for managers of close-to-state businesses and managers whose banks are using the support of the federal government: 'The honourable Members therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology and the Federal Minister for Finance, are invited to arrange the necessary funds to cover the salaries of managers of close-to-state enterprises (such as the ÖBB, ASFINAG) and the managers of those banks and insurance companies who benefit from state aid with the salary of the Federal Chancellor in accordance with the Federal Remuneration Act.” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13314	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13381	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13403	Mr President. High house! I would like to draw the FPÖ's attention to this: There is a difference between apples and pears in agriculture when you talk about cow trade. [[Call the FPÖ: Oh, insanity!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's what you hear all day. What you see here is in principle nothing but political pots. [[Abg. New builder: If someone like you..., then he has to shut up!]] There is the banking secret that is regulated by the Banking Act – that is quite simple, colleague Neubauer – and we are here talking about the Civil Service Enforcement Act. These are two pairs of shoes, once again very slowly: apples and pears. The Banking Act regulates banking secrecy, and this remains true in Austria. This remains true for the local saver in Austria. That's the point! So do not print G’s layers, just so you can place some tremors somewhere in Vienna again, dear friends of the FPÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then you say the untruth! This is unfair because, with this process, you are also at risk of the economic location. [[Abg. New builder: Impunity camp...!]] The little hackler, the small worker in the Franckviertel, the one in Steyr, the one in Wels, whose workplace you are at risk! That's the point. Outside, you suggest that you work for this man, in the Voest, in the AMAG, in the Steyr works, and in the end you are threatened by your process that orders from abroad, jobs are lost. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] So I don't know who you're for anymore. Are you there for the criminal tax evasions, for the criminal money-launderings from abroad? Or are you there for the little hackers in Austria? [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] - Dear friends of the FPÖ, that's the point. Just take note of this! Nevertheless, I believe it will be of no use. You're staying with your diction. Even if you say the untruth ten times, it will not be more correct, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! But just keep going! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The citizen is increasingly perceiving the game between apples and pears in Upper Austria. [[Abg. New builder: We'll see that anyway!]] We from the BZÖ – and I admit that – have achieved some things that are important with the Greens, but also with the government. That's where I ask myself again: Why are the colleagues from the FPÖ not involved when it comes to what they have called for for for weeks, namely an examination of the bank package? – Suddenly you are gone again; you are here and are gone again. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Who says that?]] Or: Court of Auditors audit of state companies with less than 50 percent of the state's share. For example, FPÖ wanted to participate in the Skylink Airport-Vienna-Sache. She's always called for this to be checked. But where are you now? – You were there a few weeks ago, and now you are gone from FPÖ. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] It's really terrible! The next day you no longer know what FPÖ was for the day before. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] Or the audit of the Federal Court of Auditors: Your Klubobmann from the FPÖ in Upper Austria demands vehement and prayer-like audit of the small communities. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Yes, now it is...!]] Now you have the chance to agree! Why do you not agree? – You were there and you were gone again. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] So the FPÖ is: Unhonest, unfair, for tax evasions from abroad, but not for the small hackers in Austria – that is the FPÖ of Heinz-Christian Strache! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Dear friends! The same is said to apply to the Ural demand of the liberals: minority law to be able to set up an investigation committee. There too: Yesterday, we're leaving today. That's the FPÖ! [[Abg. Grain Duration: Where is the application...?]] Dear friends of the FPÖ! I can only say one thing, and I also expect the ÖVP to stand by its commitments, including the audit rights for the communities. There you can already discuss. The municipalities are examined by the municipal audit committee, which is rather toothless, by the BH, by the municipal auditors, also by the municipal department of the countries and by the national accounting court. There you can discuss the fact that the test density is a little too high. But I would like to have already that the Federal Court of Auditors, as an independent body from the Federal Republic of Germany, can also check in case of need, up to the local skiers from the ÖVP, from the SPÖ and, of course, also from the FPÖ. But they don't take it exactly with the control. I think that the package in total is a good one for the Austrian taxpayer, because the banking secret remains, contrary to the FPÖ's shaking rhyme theme. However, there are bad times for tax evasions from abroad, for money-laundering, for criminals who seem to want to protect you perfectly here. I just always wonder, dear friends of the FPÖ – one last question –: Where do you have so much money for your posters, for your election campaigns? Do you have anything to hide, or is there something to check here? Is there anything here to examine, to control what the public should know? – I would be interested. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, in sum: Good times for more democracy, for more control – and therefore also for approval of this Act of Enforcement.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13582	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13614	Mr President. No more government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speaker's words, in fact, only allow the conclusion that he is keenly intelligent to want to appear sometimes only to give the impression of the opposite. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As far as all the points that Mr Widmann has raised are concerned, why the Freedom Party does not agree with those apparently great results of the negotiations that you have achieved, Mr Colleague, you do not have to deal with this, which may exceed some horizons. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: How do you really have the money for the posters?]] At any rate, we have done it and note that these negotiated points you are now celebrating as a negotiation result are not worth the paper on which they are written. As far as the Court's audit competences are concerned, nowhere is it written that the Court of Auditors is allowed to examine communities below €20 000. You want that now, but you don't know... [[Abg. Grosz: No, residents, not euros!]] Population – You do not know at what height this will take place. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's a difference!]] If that says: among 19 990 inhabitants, this is probably the same, but obviously a success for you. [[Abg. Grosz: You should stay with the highways, that may have failed!]] Yes, Mr Grosz, when I see you: Some armlights would like to act as halogen lights, it seems. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: I can't do that!]] The audit competences of the Court of Auditors as regards the banking package are also insufficiently formulated. They do not meet the point they should meet, namely the examination of the banks themselves, which, authorized by the Minister of Finance, receive liability, either by the State as a guarantee or as a guarantee and payer. [[Abg. Grosz: (in the direction of FPÖ) I give you the opportunity to apologize!]] We are calling for far more stringent measures here, and I am therefore submitting the following motion for a resolution on the extension of the audit competence of the Court of Auditors and the national accounting authorities: ‘The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to submit a government template which includes the extension of the audit competence of the Court of Auditors and the national accounting authorities for the examination of undertakings receiving State support in the form of financial grants or acceptance of liability.’ This is therefore much more concrete than the wording in your alleged negotiating results. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, sacrifice. You have the banking secret at the Brussels altar, and probably our Vice-Cancellor Pröll will now be given the resolution. The banking secret is very much worth the Austrian, and it is an old right. It is only a matter of time until the government also wants to sniff into the hard savings of the Austrians when it comes to granting social benefits. Here you can only say one thing after Vice Chancellor Pröll said a year ago: We keep word, the banking secret remains untouched! The word Prölls seems to be worth as much as the famous “Ederer-Tausender”: There's nothing left but hot air.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13761	Mr. Zanger! Even if there is a humorous reaction to your However, I do not think that comparison has been made. Do you see that? [[Abg. Singer: A general formulation!]] You didn't do this to colleagues Grosz? [[Abg. Singer: No!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] - Then let's take note of this. Mr Haberzettl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13814	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! I would like to deal with the question of tax evasion a little bit in the first place and look at it in more detail: When does tax evasion actually occur? Tax evasion occurs when companies or individuals gain income and do not treat them in accordance with the law in the country that is to be installed. That is, those actually violate rules, laws, or standards. This is not to be treated and simply to be done with a hand movement means to find, in some way, an access that rules or norms no longer have to be observed. This is a somewhat surprising access by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, but it often acts as a law-and-order organization. [[Call the FPÖ: How much have you speculated?]] [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: At the Cyprus story...!]] I think we should make one clear and clear statement here: Tax evasion is not a cavalier offence, not in Europe, not in Austria and not at all at global level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is also the reason why tax evasion is global and lockholes are closed. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Tell your wife Schmied...!]] In this House, we call on the Minister of Finance, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, to insist on the establishment of rules for the financial market throughout the world and globally. Unfortunately, it is much too slow, because the soccer system of the banks is already beginning at zero. I note that it is one of the most important rules to be set up on the capital market that the capital market must also comply with the financial technical rules. If you say, We do not want to go this way, then you do not actually take the first step in the direction of the Financial Market Rules in your own house. Finally, a comment on the issue of the compromise: I have been sitting at the negotiating table many times and have always been glad to do so in the course of negotiations. To talk about a cow trade here is almost far from reality. It's a real, yes, excellent negotiating result on a basis that, as I believe, is just on 1st. September bears the right fruit. It is a pity that a unanimous decision cannot be taken here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13879	The motion for a resolution tabled by the previous speaker is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13961	Now comes Mr Mag. Ikrath to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e13982	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The living Ikrath credit terminal!]] It is certainly good that today, with the Civil Service Enforcement Act, we finally eliminate every pretext to de-establish Austria's banking secrecy as a hiding place for tax evasion, and it is all aware – including colleagues from the Freedom Party, I assume, it is aware that it should at least be known to them – that it is also necessary to adopt this law today. For the sanctions envisaged would simply have a devastating effect on our companies, especially for export-oriented companies, which are now under massive pressure due to the economic conditions, for our jobs and for the economic location. [[Abg. Weinzinger: This is a threat!]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: We are threatened by something! That can't be!]] As an example, I would like to point out – perhaps at the last minute, too, I would like to raise responsibility at FPÖ – that law “to combat harmful tax practices and tax evasion”, which has already been decided in the German Bundestag. If this law is implemented against Austrian companies – and that is in the room – this means: massive restrictions on the tax deductibility of operating expenses for companies from tax havens, i.e. for Austrian companies that do business in Germany, no longer claim to KEST relief for such companies and no more tax freedom for dividends, remunerations and profits from equity in Germany. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] If you know what meaning the German market has for the Austrian economy, you also know what significance these consequences have for us. The fact that the FPÖ believes that I have to oppose completely false and completely incomprehensible arguments shows me that the responsibility for the Austrian economy and for the jobs of people in FPÖ cannot be very pronounced. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer:... the savings bank for the drains!]] However, it is equally good and absolutely necessary that we have fully respected the banking secret for the fair investors who are subject to taxation abroad and for all Austrian savers and account holders. We have not affected § 38 – this has already rightly said a previous speaker – who regulates banking secrecy. That is to say, every Austrian and foreign taxpayer who does not withdraw taxes – and that is 99.99 percent of those who have accounts with us – can continue to rely on the full protection of banking secrecy. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We have now achieved this in intense, not simple negotiations with the opposition – if I look away from the liberals. Therefore, there will continue to be no officials who can enter and go out in the monetary bedrooms of our citizens at all times. However, this would have been what the German Minister of Finance Steinbrück wanted. In Germany, with this legal measure, he sells those investors who have the full transparency of their money life the same great dissatisfaction as the fact that they do not even know when and which authority takes insight into their account. We have not taken this into account. We have not taken this into account in any way, because it is not Mr Steinbrück who tells us how to shape our banking secrecy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Apparently!]] But what I expect, including the Ministry of Finance, is that we are going against the real tax havens internationally! The real tax havens are located where the major economies of the G20 are: in the USA and in the UK; Delaware, Wyoming, Nevada. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] There I can create a mailbox company completely anonymously, can open an account on the banks and then park all my money and move anonymously. Or the English trusts on various canal islands; they were not even placed on the lists. This is a task for us, but now we can act from a position of strength! I think that is good; that we have to act, I think, of course and necessary. In this context – in order to conclude – I recommend to all of us a contribution from the “economist” of 28th century. March 2009, a remarkable contribution! An Australian university professor named Sharman of Griffith University described in detail where the true tax havens lie. I'm just quoting one sentence, but this one to the end: ‘The most egregious examples of banking secretary, money laying and tax Fraud are found not in remote alpine valleys or on sunny tropical islands but in the backyards of the world’s biggest economies... Now here is this more outstanding than in America.’ There's a job for us! I believe that it should also be a concern of the Freedom Party instead of protecting foreign tax evaders, deciding with us this law and immediately showing and fighting the true tax havens together.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14112	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. Your group's remaining speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14134	Mr President. High house! I am going to vote against this law like some of the BZÖ colleagues. I am also doing this in my capacity as Secretary General of the BZÖ, and I am making it aware of this in order to put a sign in the direction of ÖVP. I would also like to know this as a warning. As a constructive opposition party, we are not being abused by the ÖVP, nor are we allowed to go into it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are a burned child from times of government participation, and we also have our experience from agreements at local level. It can't be that ÖVP plays the same game over and over again: First we negotiate, then something is agreed – and 24 hours later everything is different. This game you can play with your coalition partner! If you are talking about a new quality of parliamentarianism, then let us not be involved in such actions that, in reality, only cause distrust again! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Political Alzheimer!]] You have concluded a pact with our clubman, whom I would like to expressly praise for the great outcome of the negotiations, and 24 hours later your clubman – I know you don't want to hear that now – explains in the ORF interview: I am not, like the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mödlhammer, whom you sent out, for the Federal Court of Auditors to examine all the communities down to the smallest. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] While the ÖVP stands here today at the speaker's desk and explains that the communities will be examined in the future and the competences of the Federal Court of Auditors will be expanded, at 13.00 p.m., the Tyrolean head of state Platter announces that the examination of small communities is "necessary". This game, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, we have looked through. I would like to warn you here: Today, three Members of the BZÖ vote against, next time it will be more, and then you can lubricate your second-third majority somewhere and will not move politically any more! [[Abg. Grosz: In the hair!]] That's what I'm saying in all clarity. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] I also say: _Play You don't have this confidence advance! You will need the opposition parties in autumn. The Ökostromgesetz is the next point on the agenda. The BZÖ is prepared to ensure the necessary majority in this area, even if we can also implement our arguments for an environmental tax reform on the content. I know that we also have a lot of similarities with the Greens. And you will need us in administrative reform! If you are making a reform in the administration of the Civil Service Law, which you urgently need if a reform is to be implemented in the field of education, then you will also need our votes! [[Abg. Amon: Do not threaten, please!]] Don't be ridiculous and don't take it on the light shoulder! I'll tell you: If clear steps are not taken within the next few weeks to implement all four points of this agreement, so that the Federal Court of Auditors can also examine the municipalities, then you will have to refrain from supporting the BZÖ until the end of this legislative period! That's what you can expect, and that's for sure! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We'll tell you one thing: We will certainly not give up the cheap Jacob! There is an urgent need for reform. We have the highest unemployment this autumn. You have a social package for those who are now standing on the street innocently, you have to support the families and stimulate the economy. You're gonna need the money urgently. They will have to implement reform measures – in the areas of administration, education and health. Put the health insurance funds together! Quit the double track in the field of education! Get rid of the state school councils! This is possible – with the support of the opposition. Don't waste the advance of trust!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14236	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14257	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The present Act of Enforcement provides for taxable persons who are not at all in a position to be subject to their taxes on aid. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. To date, ladies and gentlemen, this has already been addressed a few times today, dishonest taxpayers have been able to deposit wealth and income easily from foreign banks. If the local tax authority then suspected and asked the states – and Austria still belonged to it – then no information was provided about the person in charge of the suspected taxable person. This was not just an unpleasant appearance for the governments concerned, but, as I said earlier, it was unfair to honest taxpayers, because the tax evasion caused by tax evasion had to compensate the taxpayers! Austria is – and this has already been said today – an export-oriented country. In other words, we must prove ourselves in competition and say to others in the interests of tax policy: We're not playing with that anymore! Ladies and gentlemen, this time, I think, is over, and Austria will not be reduced either. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It was said today – I think by Mr Strache – that Austria is not obliged. – So, I think, the “standard” of 19th century. In August, he did not read where the European Investment Bank, as the first sanction for Austria, was that there would no longer be business with local banks due to lack of cooperation in tax matters. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be in the interest of an export-oriented country! It is also about our jobs! This model agreement, which is, so to speak, the basis for our enforcement law, aims at tax law and that the tax burden is distributed on more shoulders in order to create more space for tax reductions. Finally, I would like to support Mr Haberzettl: The fact is that we need a system to monitor compliance with country commitments and territories, because this only makes sense if it can be controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14323	I call Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14345	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear Sepp Bucher, you just don't have it in your group to make constructive policy. The Carinthian fires are really anything but desirable! – At home the topics are obviously quite different again than they are occupied here in Vienna. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't worry about our club! You'd rather worry about the EOC, 3.6 million you've been suffocating!]] But now, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act of Enforcement, which we will adopt today. This is no more and no less than that we treat foreign capital investors with domestic capital investors in tax terms – or at least in legal terms. That is why I do not understand that the Freedom Party refuses to do so vehemently when it comes to foreign capital investors. They are a little better in terms of handling capital income taxes and understanding of Austrian bank accounts and acts. This is what we are doing and we are going to create, as I said, the same measures as those for Austrian savers and capital investors. One thing was said in advance: Austria is certainly not a tax haven – nor was it. With this EU Directive 2005, we have correctly retained our source tax amounts and passed on 75 percent of them to the respective EU countries. I hardly believe that a Peer Steinbrück will receive very large multiple returns from Austria in the near future, because we have already delivered the corresponding amounts in this area. It is also not to be understood that, as my colleague Bartenstein has already done today, we have come to this OECD list or to this “grey list” because we had nothing to blame for in this respect, I believe, even in the past. On the one hand, it was always important to us in Austria to have a corresponding banking secret – which we will continue to maintain. We do not change, as has already been said on several occasions, the banking law, but we will create opportunities to implement appropriate double taxation agreements in the future better and faster. From the economic point of view, the following must be said: We have an export rate of about 50 percent and a tourism rate of about 15 percent, i.e. we need almost two thirds of our neighbouring countries or international markets to produce our gross social product. And if there are international rules of the game, then Austria – and this is certainly good for Austria – should fully adhere to the international rules of the game. This is good for Austria because it needs these markets, and then it offers complete fairness in terms of capital taxation in Austria. I believe that fairness in the economy is an important part, because if there is appropriate tax justice and there is also a fairness here, then our businesses, our employees and so on, will continue to be able to do well internationally. I am also pleased about these concluded compromises with the four parties and I am looking forward to the various compromises in each form. I would be glad if this good spirit or reason, as it has been mentioned many times today, could continue in this House. There are many forthcoming major arrangements to be made and reforms to be made – in the area of administration, in the development of the health system and also in the education system, and I hope that this good spirit will continue to be present in the Austrian Parliament in the coming weeks and months. I believe that the Austrian citizens have a right to this constructive cooperation between these parties, because the time is not quite simple as regards the economy. I think we need all the positive forces in this House to keep Austria at the forefront. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14399	Next speaker: Mr Kaipel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14421	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With the four-party agreement to the Civil Service Enforcement Act, we support an efficient fight against international tax evasion, At the same time, we also protect the small Austrian savers through banking secrecy, as in the past, even in the future. It's very important: We thus achieve the removal from the “grey list” and have no – as announced – to fear sanctions. Austria thus proves its ability to act on an international parquet once again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The decision is based on a four-party agreement. The fears raised earlier are, I think, unfounded. There is an agreed deadline, and I am sure that within this period the agreement will also be made viable. In any case, the SPÖ stands for its agreements. That is why I do not fully understand the hustle and bustle that has arisen in the last few days when it comes to expanding the audit competence of the Court of Auditors, particularly as regards the examination of small communities. That is what the Government Convention says, and we stand by it. But the government partner certainly knows that. Therefore, I think and I am confident that there will be appropriate good solutions. However, I also believe that the problems known so far are formally crying out for change, and I am also convinced that the problems we have known so far are not the end of the problem list. It is also important to me to point out that the majority of the communities are sound in their conduct. I should like to warn against making the sum of the communities worse if there are some misdemeanors. In this context, however, it should also be noted that the communities concerned are in good company. There are similar problems also in the federal government, in different countries and also in associations. I think that's exactly the problem: The fact that many of them are in these areas of problem. This makes it difficult for the discussion to do so. But I also believe that the speed on this issue must also be equated with damage minimization. We are invited to make an effort to protect tax money. We are therefore required to come to solutions quickly. It is obvious that the previous control system has failed. The test organisations in the countries are different. At least there are community-owned audit organisations in all federal states. Here, too, I believe there are excess demands there and there. As we have seen in the case of Burgendland, Strem, where, according to “NEWS”, a deputy head of state by directions has not minimized the problem, but strengthened it – the communities are also in favour of protecting it. Therefore, I believe that the solution can only be that everything that tax money is in play can also be checked. These are all municipalities, all municipal associations and all the areas where funds, including taxpayers, are outsourced. I also believe that two test bodies are necessary. The community's own examination is quite useful. Tests are thus possible quickly and locally, and where it is necessary, their own testing facilities must be adapted accordingly. The Court of Auditors is the second level. Of course, ten billing courts are a problem, and it will be to be discussed how we can set it straight. I also think it makes sense that the billing courts do not then face up to the communities as any force majeure with raised viewfinder. I think it makes sense for them to act as partners of the communities, helping to locate and resolve weaknesses. If that is possible, I am convinced that there is also an added value for the municipalities and the taxpayers. That is also what we all want. I therefore believe that we will quickly come to effective, common solutions. So we have nothing to hide, and therefore we have no fear of – completely indifferent, which – trial!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14493	This is what the honourable Member is talking about. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14514	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! There's a lot of talk about bank secrecy today. One thing has to be noted: There is security for the Austrian saver for his money when these things are treated discreetly. We must also note that this remains the same. The Austrian remains safe because discretion and trust are probably the most important foundations in banking. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we also need to note that we have an international interest. Today, we have a globalised world and operate in globalised markets, so there is, of course, a strong interest in sharing information globally. On the other hand, there should also be no more political channels, according to the motto: We are. In particular, Austria has always been able to play a strong role in the international markets with international links or cooperations. Now, the OECD States have decided new bases for the mutual assistance and the exchange of information in the case of taxable acts – of course, when criminal proceedings are in place – and now it is up to the States to implement and cooperate. Another behavior cannot afford Austria because we are export-dependent, here our competitiveness and, of course, the international reputation are at stake. Our country must not be thrown into a pot with the villain states. The financial crisis has given much new thought. Here, of course, the OECD, the EU and the G-20 are strong in implementing these principles and in implementing them in individual countries. The same rules of play for all – of course, this also applies to us, and those who do not stick to them must expect sanctions. It seems that it is thanks to God that he has succeeded in getting a two-thirds majority for this enforcement law here in Parliament, and that is a good thing. And if that's called cow trafficking, I can't fully share that opinion. Of course, we would constantly want to agree on different matters, but it doesn't play that way in society, it doesn't play that way in everyday life, it doesn't play in politics either. Therefore, as elected representative representatives, we represent and exchange the various opinions and views, but at the end of the day a solution, a useful result for the people of this country, should be on the table. I think we have achieved a useful result with this law. We protect the savers and do not make protected areas for the tax evasioners and criminals of other countries. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] The discussion and exchange of opinions and content are, so to speak, the basis of parliamentaryism and free democracy. Whoever does this with words such as "political bazaar" and "cow trade" is doing so by the parliamentary It is not good, it is bad, and in the end, it is also devaluing the performance of the Members. We are sending an important political signal that has already been observed internationally – the Minister of Finance has already discussed it today – and that creates the right response. Our Minister of Finance is actively involved in international efforts to find ways out of this crisis. Today's decision empowers the Ministry of Finance to continue and conclude the double taxation agreements with other countries. This brings us great prestige in the individual countries. Steering and controlling, not putting your head in the sand and waiting for what is going on – skillful diplomacy and hand-beat quality are a key to successful policy. Good thing we can rely on a finance minister with these characteristics!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14582	The next speaker was Mr Hechtl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14603	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! This Act of Enforcement sets out a further step towards greater cooperation and transparency from Austria, which specifically requires the technical level for the elimination of harmful tax practices. At the same time, this Act of Enforcement does not affect the Banking Act, in particular § 38 of the Banking Act. As a result, bank secrecy remains unchanged for all persons who tax their interest income in Austria. This law also complies with the OECD's in nature. 26 developed principles of transparency and willingness to provide assistance. It is also ensured that this law creates the necessary conditions for the removal of Austria from the OECD’s “grey list” to take place at the G20 meeting in September, thereby strengthening Austria’s reputation and reputation. The four-party agreement also extends the competence of the Court of Auditors to include the audit report in companies where public authorities have less than 50 percent of shares, but have a dominant influence. The examples from the economy, which have already been cited today, such as Skylink, have shown how necessary and essential examinations and transparency will be and that the Court of Auditors is the appropriate instrument for this. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In this context, however, I would also like to say that the responsible Skylink Board member has been replaced for a long time and the Chairman of the Board of Directors has expressly welcomed the audit of the Court of Auditors for some time. The Court of Auditors' action to examine the contracts concluded with the banks and their fulfilment is also a positive and important result for us. This is an important point, especially with regard to the burning question of the bank's lending of the economy. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It must be our all interest to counteract harmful tax practices and not to protect foreign tax culprits.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14645	As the last speaker, Mr Matznetter has been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14667	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! We have now exchanged the arguments. In the end, it's clear: The position of the FPÖ not to agree on this issue is neither content nor objective. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! If you had read this law, you would have found that this law provides for persons who are resident outside Austria - usually foreigners - that condition that applies to the other eight million Austrians for a year and a day. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: And in Austria!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's an intensification!]] The fact is that, at the moment when there is serious suspicion, the financial authorities can easily come to all account data even after the opening of the procedure. In other words, you do not want to agree with the Austrians with your vote on equal treatment of foreign tax evaders. It is even worse than the Members have presented it here. They want people who leave taxes in other countries to be treated better than those who live here in the country. This is your policy, the policy of the FPÖ! [[Abg. Strache: We do not want the abolition of banking secrecy for all Austrians!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No, Mr Strache, you do not get out of this question. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You have proven today that you are pursuing an economic policy that actually believes that you will have an advantage for Austrian banks if we put ourselves in the corner in international cooperation as the “smooth fins” and say: We don't work with you. – I tell you, the opposite would be the case. Austria is a rule of law, and we are interested in cooperating internationally so that we can find open borders so that our companies can invest. [[Abg. Bad handlers! The Swiss have made it better!]] We hope that we will establish a state of affairs in Europe through which we will have strict rules for the financial economy in Europe and the world. This is a behaviour to say: It does not matter to us whether they get information according to their procedure!, exactly the wrong way. That is because you are working in the hands of those you are supposed to warn against, namely those who move huge sums across the globe, destabilize entire economies and cause the crisis. [[Abg. Street: The Foundation owners in Upper Austria!]] FPÖ as a representative of financial capital and tax evasion of foreigners – a “super” result of today’s day! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] But I am glad that four political groups have reached this agreement today. I would like to express my express thanks to the BZÖ and the Greens for this serious dialogue. It is an important signal beyond the state community that a broad majority of them bear this – except for a few who may not have read it well and perhaps not thought enough about it. This is an important issue for our negotiations, because the most difficult part is ahead of our Minister for Finance, Sepp Pröll. We now have the negotiations for the much more important part to play in preparing the G-20 summit: How do we get reasonable rules on financial markets? – We do not yet have a common European position. The fact that the Finance Ministers can bring with them a decision of the National Council and, as we have heard today, two signed and ten initial agreements, is a very important point so that he can represent our all interest. It is precisely this negotiating mandate that we have strengthened. Today’s decision by the Council of Ministers on the Financial Transaction Tax also makes it clear what one of the “main points” will be there. In this sense, the House of Lords has fulfilled its responsibilities. I would like to expressly praise the constructive cooperation with parts of the opposition, in which case with the BZÖ and the Greens, and in no form with the FPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14789	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 323 of the Supplements. The vote has been taken on this subject. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. § 2 para. 3 and § 3 of the Civil Service Enforcement Act are required in accordance with § 38 para. 5 Banking Act of the presence of at least half of the Members and a majority of two thirds of the votes cast. I therefore begin by stating the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I shall now vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I am looking for those Members who are in favour of adopting the bill in 323 d.e. Pronounce, yes, those who vote against to throw “No ” ticket into the urn. I now ask the author, Mrs Hagenhofer, to begin with the name call; Mrs Franz will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14861	Thank you. The vote will end. The members of the House responsible for this task will now make the votes, under the supervision of the experts. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e14901	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 170; of which ‘Yes’ votes 136, ‘No’ voices 34. Thus, the draft law is largely adopted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Eßl; Faul, Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Großruck, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Hagen, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huber Gerhard; Ikrath; Jarmer, Jarolim, Jury; Chapel, chapel, Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Korun, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lipitsch, List, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Markowitz, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Moser, Muchitsch, Musiol, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ollinger; Pack, Pendl, Petzner, Pilz, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schatz, Scheibner, Schenk, Schittenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Schwentner, Silhavy, Singer, Sonnberger, Spadiut, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Stummvoll; Tadler Erich, Tamandl; Van der Bellen; Walser, Weninger Hannes, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Deimek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Garter, grassy, Count, Grosz; Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Hübner Johannes; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Königshofer, Kunasek, Kurzmann; Laust; Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Rosary; Stefan, Strache, Strutz; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Weinzinger Lutz, Westenthaler, Winter; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15074	I should like to ask you to take the places because we are still in the middle of the voting process. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is largely accepted. I expressly note once again the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ddr. Königshofer, colleagues on BAWAG-P.S.K. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is largely rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Grastaur, colleagues and colleagues on salary restrictions for managers of close-to-state enterprises and managers whose banks benefit from the support of the federal government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, fellow Members, on the extension of audit competence of the Court of Auditors and the national accounting authorities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[14:26:15]] Short debate on the reply to the question 2580/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15147	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 2580/AB. The above-mentioned questionnaire reply has already been distributed so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Petzner to open the debate as an applicant for the request. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15181	Mr President. Dear Mrs Fekter! Ladies and gentlemen! We're aware of it on today's 1st. On September 1 this short debate on our parliamentary question was put, because today, on this 1st. September, a very, very important deadline, a deadline that you have set, Mrs Fekter, the time limit for your bizarre, peculiar, somewhat pointless award for an asylum first-time reception centre in the south of Austria, as I call it. This deadline has expired today, and that is why we are also discussing it today, because we are of course very excited, especially in view of the high cost of this award, as well as your parliamentary response to the question – of course we are interested today, and especially the people outside, the people in the communities in Styria, in Lienz, in Carinthia, in Burgenland –: Which municipalities have reported themselves? Who shows interest? And where, then, do people also have to fear that they will receive a first reception center in their community? That's the one thing it's all about today. The other is simply a clear signal to you, Mrs. Innenminister, for we have announced from the first day since these plans are known that we are from the BZÖ – whether the Gerald Groszin is the Styria, or we in Carinthia with the head of state Gerhard Dörfler and Landespartierobmann Uwe Scheuch that are whether the Mr. Huber is in East Tyrol or our Burgenian friends are doing so – bitter resistance to such an initial recording center. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This has been true since the first day, today, and this is true in the future, that is, until you finally drop the plans for such a pointless project. I'll be back to the application period. As has been said, the application deadline has expired today, and it is the big question which communities have applied for. Previously on the costs: Printing costs, shipping costs, design costs of brochures and folder amount to around 12 000 €. [[Abg. Kickl: That doesn't bring you so cheap together!]] But much more interesting is the order study you commissioned, which cost €25 000 and has resulted in such a first-supply center having economic advantages. Among other things, they have mentioned the example of the 500 semesters that are already almost in the history of the sage in the field of internal policy, but that, which is particularly interesting, is the fact – and I have also asked that consciously – who has done this study. It's always exciting who a study comes from. And if you see the name of the study author, you already know exactly what that is, nothing but a job study from your home, through which 25 000 € were awarded to a party guest. [[Abg. Grosz: Who made it?]] Professor Dr. Gottfried Haber, whom you have commissioned with this study, has no idea of asylum policy at all, who has never had anything to do with refugee policy, refugee, but is one of your most important people in the ÖVP Carinthia, works for the ÖVP Carinthia and sits for the ÖVP in numerous bodies. [[Abg. Grosz: Illegal party donations!]] That is, you have given €25 000 to a party friend to receive a job study for a first-time recording center. This is your policy, which you make, but which we condemn in all form and in all sharpness. [[Abg. Grosz: 25 000 €, generate yourself!]] And now, as I said, it's about the exciting question: What communities have applied for? . And here is what many Members of this House have repeatedly criticised, namely that the parliamentary right to question is often not taken seriously by the government, unfortunately, of God, that it is always tried to avoid the questions, not to answer them, and not to speak and answer them in the context of these parliamentary questions. That's what you do, because on the question of which communities are there at the end of the day 1. applied for September – where You yourself have said that is the deadline for you to apply for – explain these applications – literally – to the matter of trust and say that confidentiality has been agreed and you don't say anything about it. With regard to the Austrian Press Agency, you said today that there were some municipalities – in Styria, in Carinthia and in Burgenland – who had applied for and had shown interest in such a first-supply center. [[Abg. Grosz: The communities in Styria show me!]] I honestly say, first of all, I am very excited about which communities this will be at the end of the day. Secondly, I am very excited about how these applications have been made within these communities. Was there decisions in the council? There the population was asked: Should we apply, do you want to do this in our community at all? – I personally do not believe it because I am convinced that it would have been a long time, just as it happened in Carinthia, to the public and there would have been a corresponding uprising in the population. That means, for me, the question here is: How are you? You have been dealing with democracy in particular in this project? How did these applications come about? Let us take the Carinthian example and look at it in practice. In the municipality of Neuhaus there is a SPÖ mayor, Visotschnig, who has explained via newspaper that he wants to have such a first recording center. And in a bilingual community in southern Carinthia, the Slovenian mayor has also declared that he is interested in such a first recording center. The vortex was huge and it came out that both had to withdraw their application because they had experienced very strong resistance from the population in their communities and had not received any approval from the relevant municipal council for this application. In other words, these two communities, whose applications were known to the public, withdrew their application. And just against this background, I ask the question – I ask you to really answer it today –: How did the democratic decision-making process in these applications, which are now supposed to come from these three federal states, go about? Was there a match? Was the municipal council questioned or not? - That's the one side. The other side – which is particularly interesting for you as an ÖVP politician – is: Were the respective country politicians questioned? My big question is also how you intend to proceed with this project, if you know that in Burgenland – Mr Pendl is looking at me so surprisedly – the SPÖ as the national captain party has already stated several times publicly that it rejects this first reception centre with all its determination, if you know that in the Styria by Gerald Grosz, who has been producing pressure on Mr. Voves in the public for months and through the passage to the public, so much pressure has arisen that Mr. Voves has also come under Zugwang and has explained that even for the Styria such a first recording center is certainly not in question. It is not much different in the Federal Republic of Carinthia, where there is even a land day decision of all parties, SPÖ, ÖVP – your ÖVP, Mrs. Minister, your colleague, Mr. Tauschitz, your Gottfried Haber, to whom you have given 25 000 € for a study, whose party in Carinthia is voting against the reception centre – and BZÖ. In other words, you have not only a front of the citizens, a front of the communities against you, but also a front of the countries, the countryside, the political parties in the countryside. And that's where I wonder how you want to solve this Gordic knot. I'm more likely to suspect that you're pretty slow to realize that you've gotten into the dead end of the dead end with this award invitation that someone gave you as a good idea, and now you're not quite sure how to get out of there and how to implement this first recording center you're planning. I say to you that the simplest way would be – and this is also our proposal, the proposal of the BZÖ, which we have made since the beginning of this discussion – to refrain completely from setting up such a first-time reception centre in the south of Austria, because we simply do not think it is necessary or would not be necessary if we made a restrictive, strict asylum policy if we were to implement the BZÖ's proposals in the field of foreign rights and, in particular, the intensification and prevention of abuse in the field of asylum. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] If you were to implement our initiatives, ideas, proposals, we would not need such a second reception centre at all. But since you are unable to carry out these intensifications, since you are unable to make a restrictive asylum policy, because you are also unable – for example Harald Serafin – to make good security policy, you come on such snap ideas as a first-shot center South, so you come to such snap ideas as a Soko East – a pure PR-gag that doesn't do anything at all. [[Abg. Grosz: Then there is the Soko Serafin! You're one of the biggest Soko inventors there are!]] That is why you are also so controversial in the public, you also have so many critics and opponents in the public and in your own party. I can promise you from my side and also from the BZÖ that we will continue to look at your work very critically, to see exactly what you are doing, that we will, above all, use all parliamentary and democratic possibilities to prevent a first-reception centre in the south of Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15317	Mrs Fekter spoke on a point of view. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15338	In connection with the planned first reception centre in South, the municipalities in the federal states of Styria, Burgenland and Carinthia have been invited to express their interest in the new first reception site in South at the Federal Ministry of the Interior. In the course of the search for interests, several municipalities from all three federal states have reported themselves. [[Call the BZÖ:What?]] In total, there were ten municipalities that have applied for concrete interest. [[Abg. Grosz: Three municipalities per state!]] Intensive discussions are currently being held with these communities, or the conditions are examined in detail, whether a first recording centre can be set up there at all. [[Abg. Petzner: Are there council decisions or not?]] At the request of the municipal representatives, confidentiality was agreed with all municipalities. It is therefore not possible for the BMI to provide information on the specific communities, because first of all the institutions of the municipalities are spokespersons of their municipal work and not the BMI and, second, because these municipalities are currently preparing their municipal council decisions and further planning and the formation of will in the municipalities is not yet complete everywhere. [[Abg. Grosz: But it is not in accordance with the law of interpolation!]] The silence of office therefore obliges me not to refer to details here, but I am, of course, willing to subject everything I can refer to and what I can announce to be subject also to the right of parliamentary inter-parliamentary law. I have therefore also announced in reply to this parliamentary question by the BZÖ the full cost of these requests for interest. Another announcement of the names of these communities would also intervene in the personal rights of the legal person as well as in the personal rights of the concrete municipal representatives and bodies, and I do not want to violate them. It is true that over the next few weeks, discussions with the communities concerned will be concluded, in concrete terms, in order to identify the most suitable for all formal requirements as well as for economic evaluation. Then the phase II of the search for interests comes. Each project proposal will be subject to a precise, transparent assessment, and after the completion of these evaluation rounds, a programme will be carried out among the municipalities. In the final phase of the search for candidates, a concrete approach will be developed with the aim of determining the final decision on the site. All these steps will be taken in the next few weeks. When these are concretely completed, they also depend on the individual communities, because there are still formal will formations to take place there. [[Abg. Petzner: When will the citizens be asked if they want such a thing?]] That is why I cannot announce today a specific time when the site decision is taking place. But I am confident that this will still be in this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15433	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15458	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is the task of politics to convey security, and not to insure the people – wherever in our home country – and therefore I have no understanding at all that in such a sensitive matter, people in this wonderful republic are so uncertain as it is partly done here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I believe it is very important to bring this human topic to a reasonable level, and I invite everyone to do so. We should try to do so together in the interests of our citizens, no matter in which communities and cities, but also in the interests of those who need our solidarity aid. We have taken a reasonable course with the last novels to the foreign rights packages, and I would also like to thank the Members of the Bundesasylamt very much, very much, also those of the Asylum Court. The backpack we all know is handled quickly. Just an illusion, ladies and gentlemen, we should not give in: We all want to do asylum procedures very quickly, but for some time these procedures need – somehow we have to administer them, somehow we have to manage them. I would also like to take this opportunity today to thank those Austrians who have been in the district of Vöcklabruck and in the district of Baden for decades and who bear the burden, but also to point out how unolidarian is being done in this Republic. We have in my district for decades The burden of our Republic is borne, and then you may still have to be mocked, and one after another tells us: Not with us, let it remain with you, for that is what it means under the rule. Here I expect solidarity in the truest sense of the word, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Not only as regional representative of the district of Baden, but also as Lower Austrian Members, I say to you: This wonderful federal country has largely fulfilled the quota for the Republic. And many federal states have gone to diving station. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot deal with a federal issue, because we are still talking about the burden of all Austrians. Therefore, we should detemorationize this so serious, so important issue from everyday policy. We should try to improve the way we have taken, for example through faster procedures – three, four months – that would be the ideal condition if we came there – but above all through improvements in administration by trying to accommodate the asylum seekers through dislocation. It does not bring anyone anything – and in fact everyone knows – when in Traiskirchen 1 000 or even more asylum seekers – I am always happy when we have less, Mrs. Minister. I leave it to everyone to judge whether, in view of this, we can even speak of a humane process. We can't let that happen. We also know that certain developments are formally “provoking” – under quotation marks. If we want to get rid of all this, then, and I invite you to do so, we have to take the necessary steps in the field of foreign law, then we have to come to a speedy, streamlined, short asylum procedures and a decentralized accommodation of small units. Then we can save all the polemics. I believe, in the interests of humanity, in the interests of humanity, but also in the interests of the Austrians, that is the only right way.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15528	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15549	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Petzner, if you're talking about inability, then, please, look in the mirror, because you have no idea in the asylum and tourism area at all! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Hornek.]] It is actually unheard of to say to the Federal Minister that she is unable to do so, because she has just shown last year in which direction to work in this area. And I think we're on the right track. In October, the BZÖ will have the opportunity to vote in favour of the Novelle of Foreign Rights, which we will decide here, in order to achieve what it actually wants. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But what's really something? – The thing is that we need a first recording center in the south of Austria. I don't think there's any point in driving people across Austria. Firstly, it is an essential cost factor, and secondly – and I am right for Mr Pendl – it is inhuman. So I think it's important that we have a first recording center in the south of Austria. It is also important that the procedure of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs is very correct and professional. She has produced a brochure that is very honest. This has been sent to the local authorities so that they can be properly and honestly informed there. The cost of the brochure – it is used for the municipalities of three federal states – is in no way excessive. This brochure is equipped with an economic support, and this economic support is very, very important in order to be able to carry out a correct and honest vote in the municipalities. It is important that asylum procedures can be implemented more cost-effectively and more quickly, the more decentralised they are. It's also that it's too little if you say: That's nothing, you don't need it all! I believe it is important to make a proposal that is really supportive. It is not enough simply to say that we do not need to do so if we have a more restrictive asylum and foreign law, but I believe it is important to say: So that we don't have to carve people across Austria, we also need to build a first recording center in the south of Austria! I think we're on the right track in this area. It is important that we act for all those who are entitled to asylum and that we put in place appropriate measures where we can see that there is a misuse of asylum.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15616	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15637	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! If my previous speaker has said that asylum law has worked in the right direction, I cannot entirely support it, because according to the latest statistics, there was a 35 percent increase in asylum seekers in the first quarter of this year. We liberals are constantly demanding an intensification. The brochure sent to the municipalities states that in the first quarter of 2009 there was an increase of 35 percent in asylum applications. What we don't understand at all is why such a mystery is made around the communities. That is not understandable for us. The brochure, which you, Mrs. Minister, sent to the communities, says what is all good, namely: greater security for the communities, sustainable strengthening of the regional economy, creating crisis-proof jobs, safeguarding the school location. But it would also be important for you to tell the communities what the mayor of Traiskirchen says, which is really significantly affected. He says that there are daily robberies and knives that rescue services do not even trust to go to the Traiskirchen camp because there is such an unrest there. We demand that you take care of order in the asylum centres that are already in place. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to ask you for further information, because you have already announced in the National Council at the end of February the following, the design of the first reception centre. South is currently in planning and planning will be completed in two months. Mrs. Minister! Now we have at the beginning of September, and we still have nothing on the table as a National Council in this regard. If you say today that ten communities have reported, then we want to know the names of these communities. You ask us to cooperate honestly, but you are not willing to put the facts on the table. But that is what we demand as a liberal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Each of us here in the House knows that crime explodes if we have such a reception center. It cannot be in the Republic's interest to create an additional fire stove in the south of Austria. That can't be in your best interests either! You have to ensure that asylum procedures are handled quickly, because every day an asylum seekers is unauthorized with us in Austria costs taxpayers a lot of money. For 2010 alone, you have budgeted € 170 million for asylum and tourism. How do the Austrians get to take over the costs for the asylum seekers who are not entitled to asylum in Austria – and there are 27 000 uncompleted asylum applications? We call on you from the FPÖ to do something about it at last. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the address to the municipalities you have published another statistics. That's where you say Austria is only seventh in Europe. But if you turn this over to the population, Austria has the top position in it. Germany has 80 million inhabitants and not even 20 000 asylum applications, but Austria has 8 million inhabitants and 12 000 asylum applications. There's no such thing as the relationship at all! Austria is thus at the forefront of the asylum seekers. That's what we think is put off. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals really appeal to you, Mrs. Federal Minister: Think of the citizens and the taxpayers and finally ensure order in the asylum sector! Speed up the procedures! Stop the use of asylum and the unbridled immigration and push off the criminal asylum seekers without compromise! Then we do not need an additional reception centre for asylum seekers. We only need a proper Minister of the Interior, which provides for order in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15716	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has referred to a second opinion. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15738	A brief statement, after so much wrong has been said from the speaker's desk, because I do not want to leave this in the room: Austria is not at the forefront of the number of asylum seekers – measured per capita – but in fifth place behind Cyprus, Malta, Greece and Sweden.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15765	The next item is Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15786	Mr President. Values Members of the “Special Commission” Fekter, which we are now meeting here in the quarter stage, in order to highlight the somewhat special policy of this Minister of the Interior. Mr. von der FPÖ, you have spoken about the ability of the Minister for the Interior. I'm not allowed to judge them. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But fact is that she has now become world champion in the solitary discipline of setting up special commissions. “East Special Commission” – a clear nostril, a failure. “Special Commission on Autocrime” – recently set up with loud tones, which we could all follow in Ö 3. Now the “Serafin Special Commission. ” That means: The establishment of special commissions over the ever-increasing crime does not lead to a goal. Mrs. Federal Minister, be a little honest today: You have left your time limit for your “price tender ” today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek]] After you have organized a ‘breaker quiz’, you have now made a ‘price tender’ to set up an asylum reception site. Mrs Federal Minister, be honest and say: No community has reported! Not one! Tell me! Tell me that was a pipe-creper! I saw your eyes when you came in here when you turned to the government bank in a bent position. Then you asked your specialist: How many federal states have we signed up? He told you: In three! Then you said: Well, then ten have reported, 3.2 in every federal state. That's like saying, What are we gonna do today? Hold three reported in one federal state. The fact is: There has not been a single municipality with you! You know that very well. In fact, it is an insult to this Parliament, with the inter- pellation right is equipped that you can't make yourself here and just tell the truth. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I know it from members of the Social Democratic Community Office in Styria, but also from the ÖVP, and Mr Kurzmann will be able to confirm it to me for the FPÖ, which does not represent so many mayors in Styria: All three parties who make mayors have informed me today that they can guarantee for their community: No municipality in the Styria has registered with you! It would also be grudging, Mrs. Federal Minister. I remember your own words. You said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The asylum reception site doesn't come to Styria at all, because the Styria gets the thrusting center! You already act chaoticly in your own word messages. You sit up there and you don't remember what you once said. Then you’re going to “prescribing” in the Styria, where you assured the head of state three months ago, the asylum reception site doesn’t come to Styria anyway, because in the Styria you’re bothering us with a pushing center. You are inconsistency even in your course of action. The only thing that your action means is that you are constantly throwing out tax money at the window for your “intruder quiz”, for your “price tender” that you organize according to order. Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, I would therefore suggest the following: Take to heart the words of your ÖVP colleague, who said that you should build or expand an asylum reception centre where asylum flows come from. He was of the erroneous opinion that they were about Slovenia. I can calm you down: The asylum flows, which cross the Styria and the Carinthian border, cross the EU border with Slovenia and Italy, are moving in a promenade area, measured by the amount of asylum we have in Austria. That's why I'd say: Concentrate You are looking at the areas where we really have to expect asylum flows! Do not do it by train to Leoben or to Spielfeld or to Carinthia, to Wolfsberg or to Klagenfurt, for that is a despicable thing! Do it not matter that they will be delivered to our country by train to Leoben or to Spielfeld or to Carinthia, to Wolfsberg or to Klagenfurt. And look at the numbers of your own resort! I'd suggest: We will now submit a parliamentary request to the whole of the events that you have done about your "lister" quiz. That's where you are subject to the right to interpolate. You'll have to tell us. But it would have just failed and even better for your cataclysed image if you said once and for all: The story with the asylum center has died! I am no longer bothering the population in Styria and in Carinthia! And then you also have more peace from our side. That would be an offer of goodness.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15885	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e15906	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam Minister of the Interior! If a country like Austria has an asylum system, which says that asylum seekers who come to the country will first be admitted to so-called first reception centres before they are divided into the federal states, then it is of course legitimate to think about where these first reception centres are to be, in which municipalities and in which federal states. As Minister of the Interior, you have, of course, in principle the opportunity and the right to think about it and to enter into discussions with the federal states and municipalities. Only: Your current approach is very bizarre, and I would say that what you are doing at EU level falls on your mind, namely the Floriani principle. At the EU level or at the federal level, you always signal: We're not! We do not want to take asylum seekers and asylum seekers as far as possible! Let's do that, please, the others! – And then you wonder when the same happens through factions like BZÖ and FPÖ, who say: Not in Carinthia! Not in the Styria! – I rarely heard: Not in the Burgenland!, but that doesn't surprise me either. Carinthia is obviously the main concern of the BZÖ. [[Abg. Grosz: Styria too! - Cuckoo! Steiermark, too!]] Yes. I said I didn't hear Burgenland. [[Abg. Grosz: We don't want it in Burgenland either!]] So this Floriani principle: please don't ask us, because we don't want asylum seekers!, you do it all the time at the federal level, and you signal exactly that to other EU countries: They should not come to us, we don't want to take them in, we don't want to care for them! But then you do not need to wonder at all when the two federal states, where there are already first-level centres, namely Lower Austria and Upper Austria, are left alone by the other federal states. This is the only point where I am right about Mr Pendl, and I do not want to talk about ‘last’ in relation to people, because asylum seekers are people, and they are not ‘last’. Yes, they are to be cared for, and for that they have to build up the corresponding structures, but they are not a burden. So it's really not surprising to us when BZÖ and FPÖ are trying to do exactly what you are doing all the time, Mrs Innenminister. They're trying to get a trick: They produce to the communities the establishment of a first-supply center somehow tasty, any folder in which you say that would bring so and so many jobs. [[Abg. Neubauer: (an up-to-date issue of a daily newspaper and quoting from a news)... "Shit Canaken"!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] That any communities believe in you – unless they know how many of them really are, because we can't check that out at the moment – that would actually be quite surprising to me. To make it short: The problem could really be solved if you were a responsible Minister of the Interior, if you were to end up with the flat-rate mood against asylum seekers and asylum seekers, so that the population does not get the impression constantly and ever more as soon as the word “Asyl” falls, it would be only about air and fraud and crime and so on, but about people looking for protection. [[Abg. Kickl: Unfortunately very often!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: Too often!]] Here is also a word about those people who make asylum applications, sometime, perhaps even after they have committed crimes: Of course, they should also be punished if their guilt is proved. If they are suspected, they should, of course, be brought to justice, as do other suspects. And if their guilt is proved, they will also receive their just punishment. But always speaking of air and trust and crime as soon as the word “Asyl” falls, the problem will not solve, but increase. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You, Mrs. Hauserminister – and this government, unfortunately too – give this impression through your population's policy. Then to wonder that no community wants to take up asylum seekers, that's just hypocrites. So listen. Please, with this hetzeric policy, you will not need an expensive folder to convince communities, because then asylum seekers and asylum seekers will be seen as people like you and I, so to speak, or as you and I, and will not be considered untouchable! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e16012	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e16027	In agreement with the political groups, I would like to make the following request to the House: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary 2009 meeting of XXIV. National Council legislative period at the end of the 1st century. to be declared terminated on September 2009.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[15:05:03]] Reading of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e16060	I would also like to make a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol so that it can be deemed approved at the end of the sitting. This will enable immediate decision-making. I shall therefore proceed in this way and now read the Official Protocol: ‘Tagesordnung in accordance with Supplement A. With regard to the negotiated items and their allocation, the President refers to the communication pursuant to § 23 para. 4 GOG (Annex B). Mr Stefan Petzner, colleagues, asked for a brief debate on the written reply to the question 2580/AB on Question No 2570/J (Annex C). According to § 57 para. 4 GOG is proposed for the following general allocation of speaking time for the debates on the agenda (four Vienna hours): SPÖ 56 minutes ÖVP 56 minutes FPÖ 48 minutes BZÖ 40 minutes Green 40 minutes The President also announced that the following Rules of Procedure were agreed for the time of transmission of the ORF from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.: 1 speaker's round with 10 minutes each, Government member ÖVP 15 minutes, 1 speaker's round with 6 minutes each, Member of the Government SPÖ 10 minutes, 1 speaker's round with 5 minutes each, 1 speaker's round with 4 minutes each, 1 speaker's round with 4 minutes each The President-in-Office of the Council shall, at the latest before the beginning of the last round – after consultation with the presidents of the club – distribute the time remaining for the last round to the five political groups at the same time. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television period. These proposals by the President, on which agreement was reached at the President's sitting, are adopted unanimously. TO point 1: Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 681/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a Federal Law on the Implementation of OECD Principles of International Debit Legal Assistance (ADG) (323 of Supplements) There is a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplements I/1. There is a request for an end to the extraordinary 2009 XXIV meeting. GP of the National Council with the expiry of the 1. ==References====External links== It is the desire to read the official protocol of 33. National Council meeting (Annex E). Deputies DDr. Königshofer, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on Mr Zanger, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA). The vote will take place at The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 323 of the Supplements, will be put to the vote at the second reading at the time of the constitutional meeting: Votes cast: 170 Of which yes-voices: 136 No votes: 34 with the required two-thirds majority and in third reading by a majority vote (for which S, V, partially B, G) – with the required two-thirds majority – accepted. Adjournment of the vote on the part-session between 14.17 a.m. and 14.24 p.m. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA is rejected (F). The motion for a resolution, Supplement 1/2 EA, is rejected (F, B). The motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA) is rejected (F, B, G). At 14.26 a.m., the brief debate on the written reply to the question 2580/AB (Annex C). The National Council shall adopt the following decision unanimously (Appendix D): ,The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is invited to attend the extraordinary 2009 meeting of XXIV. National Council legislative period at the end of the 1st century. To be declared finished on September 9, 2009.’ On the basis of a request from 20 Members (Annex E), the third party is missing. The President, in accordance with Article 51(6) of the G.O.G.G. the Official Protocol of the 33. The President of the Court of Justice of the European Union shall inform the European Parliament and the Council thereof. Are there any objections to the version or content of this Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[15:11:03]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-01-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00033_d7e16240	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 743/A(E) to 754/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2919/J to 2966/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 15.11 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
