ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4928	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 18th. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. ==References====External links== Meeting of 11. ==References== Meeting of 12. On 3 March 2009, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Board of Directors. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Josef Auer, Keck, Duster, Praßl, Mag. Schönegger and Markowitz. [[09:01:48]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4965	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notice that the Deputy is Magistrate. Gernot Darmann forsook his mandate and was appointed to the National Council in his place Dr. MartinStrutz. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the woman writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now seeking the rapporteur, Mrs Anna Franz, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5007	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5028	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5044	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5068	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has announced the following: Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is represented by the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger. [[09:03:16]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5101	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5607	The BZÖ Parliamentary Club has, in accordance with § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, to ask for the self-employed motion 570/A(E) of the honourable Member. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on “The ORF must remain independent – the preservation of a party-independent public-law Austrian radio instead of the planned red-black government radio” must be dealt with urgently. The call for urgent request will take place at 12 noon. I also announce that the meeting will be broadcast live by ORF during the period from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 4 p.m. to 4 p.m. [[13:15]] If the session lasts longer than 4 p.m., the ORF will continue to be transferred to TW1. I'll interrupt the meeting until noon.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5656	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. I declare that, in agreement with all five political groups, the meeting will be suspended from 1 p.m. to 1 p.m. [[12:01:39]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Ewald Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on “The ORF must remain independent – maintaining a party-independent public-law Austrian radio instead of the planned red-black government radio” (570/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5695	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 570/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5856	I now give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Stadler as an applicant for the reasons of the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I would point out that the speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5880	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Last Friday, the ORF Editors' Committee prepared a resolution and decided not to include a daily text. One would expect something like this from a so-called banana republic somewhere in Latin America. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I quote literally from this decision: “ORF journalists warn against growing political pressure” "The ORF journalists refuse all attempts to take the ORF's financial crisis on the occasion of the country's most important media company under stronger control of party political power. They join the alarm calls against growing political pressure on public-law media across Europe." And on top of that: “The ORF journalists strongly warn that government parties are trying to make it a tradition to influence the ORF more strongly through legislative changes.” – Quotes. This resolution is signed by the very well-known and very sympathetic editor Danielle Spera, by Eva Ziegler and Fritz Wendl, who are the editors of the resolution. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the Austrians did not wonder badly when today they read on all front pages a huge integration of a platform, a People's Committee, namely, "Save the ORF!", in which it literally reads: “The platform “Saves the ORF!” calls on government and parties to respect the independence of the ORF particularly in terms of personal policy. Federation and countries deal with the ORF as if he belonged to them. The interested public reads of the great coalition’s personal ideas of installing a new leadership that is party-accepted, whose professional qualifications do not meet the necessary requirements.” [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Listen! Listen!]] This is not signed by anyone, this personal committee consists of Hugo Portisch, who has made himself very much deserved around the ORF – I am still coming back to it – with one word from journalists, artists, writers, actors: from prominent representatives of civil society who do not wear any party-political coat, do not pursue any political concern and do not have any interest in the group if they are concerned about Austrian broadcasting, ladies and gentlemen. And this should be remembered: This independence of Austrian broadcasting has been struggled for decades, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to congratulate the BZÖ and the Greens.]] I recall that Hugo Portisch, together with other young editors, led the Action Committee of the Independent Press in 1964, which at that time initiated a popular desire to secure independent broadcasting. ==References== August 1964 the then Minister of the Interior Franz Olah had to admit that 215,000 Austrians were initiating a popular desire – it was the first popular desire of the Second Republic! – have demanded the independence of Austrian broadcasting by means of a Constitutional Act. This popular desire then occurred from 5th to 12th. October 1964 – you really have to repeat this again and again: 1964! – took place, and 832 353 Austrians supported the ORF people's desire at the time. The independence of the ORF is a plebiscitary act, ladies and gentlemen, and we are not so easily affected by a power-conscious government that believes in being able to cut off an ORF. [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] It was only in 1974 – I now look into the ranks of the Social Democrats – that under the government of Bruno Kreisky a federal constitution law was passed which in the constitutional order demands the objectivity and impartiality of reporting the ORF, taking into account the diversity of opinion, the balance of the programmes and – now the central passage – the independence of the persons and organs of the ORF. – As far as constitutional history is concerned. Now read not only journalists, artists, writers, actors, but all of us that this government is planning the greatest attack on the independence of ORF, since this ORF has been made independent in the Second Republic, ladies and gentlemen, and that is not any phobia we have. And don't believe, my two gentlemen on the government bank – three of them are already; I welcome you, Federal Minister Hahn – that you can unpunishedly damage the independence of Austrian broadcasting in the wind shadows of the current economic and financial crisis! [[Calls: Three]] Faith You don't! Don't think the Austrians don't care about the ORF because of the other concerns they have today! This would be a serious mistake, believe me. [[I should like to congratulate the BZÖ and the Greens.]] Austrian broadcasting is such a central medium of identity, the cultural independence of Austria, that it is very much a concern to the Austrians, believe me! People are interested in it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] Mr President, I hear from you all the holy times some sentence, but it has rarely been one of them. As a social democrat, you should remain faithful to the tradition of their Bruno Kreisky and ensure the independence of Austrian radio broadcasting – instead of thinking about how you can misuse this ORF for your power games! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is important for the Austrians not only to have an instrument of cultural identity in the ORF, but also to report, to report on its problems objectively and objectively, as well as on the failure of a government that is currently not really mastering the current crisis. Therefore, it is a novum – it is not everyday at all – that all three opposition parties have agreed on this special meeting across all worldly barriers. That's what the viewers on the televisions should know when they wonder why we're going to figure this out: Hold it! all – BZÖ, Greens and FPÖ – when it comes to the efforts of the government to access the ORF. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What does this government want? . This government does not want more and no less than to secure an executive body in the ORF, which it practically employs itself, with its own majority, in order to ensure a state-run, government-compliant reporting. It is called the ‘executive committee’. The role of the Austrian People's Party is completely unclear. The whole thing is heavy-weighted by the Propaganda State Secretary Ostermayer, we know that; this has obviously been made his own matter. That's why Ostermayer is also a State Secretary in this Federal Government, because I've never experienced the fact that a cabinet chief is being made a State Secretary. Now we finally know. Unfortunately, my suspicion at the Federal Government's presentation of why we have for the first time a propaganda State Secretary has proved true: The attack threatens the independence of the media! This is Ostermayer's main task in this government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I say again: The ÖVP is satisfied if it gets a few posts; and the ÖVP has obviously concluded the deal with its government partner that the posts are black at EU level, for this the SPÖ in the ORF may occupy everything red, and that what the ÖVP still gets in the ORF is almost accepted as a brocade. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you have tried to abuse the ORF to party-political and party-tactic games, you are trying in the ORF To cement their power for the next decades – and the Austrian People's Party is playing with it! You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, will still be looking at you, because if you believe that you can somehow slow down Mr Ostermayer and his power-political games, you are in a row, believe me! And there you will not be able to save an EU Commissioner. Your deals damage objective reporting and damage an independent journalism in our country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You should be aware of this if you make such deals with your government partner at the expense of independent media! It obviously is not enough for you – perhaps this is also very interesting for the audiences and See – if the government occurs as often as possible in the ORF. Examples include: ‘ZiB 1’ in November 2008: The SPÖ accounted for 35 percent of the time of reporting and even 50 percent of the ÖVP. In the ‘ZiB 2’ it was the opposite: 50.9% of the reporting time was SPÖ; the ÖVP 45 percent. In the “ZiB 3” it was even the case that in November 2008 the SPÖ accounted for 62 percent of the reporting time. In the meantime, however, it has not become much better. Let us, for example, look at the situation in February 2009 – the government was now formed but still inactive –: In the “ZiB 1” the SPÖ accounted for 38.2 percent of the transmission time, with the ÖVP 28.7 percent of the transmission time. And in the “ZiB 2”: almost 30 percent of the send time for the SPÖ; for the ÖVP 38 percent of the broadcast time. In the ‘ZiB 3’: SPÖ accounts for 30 percent of the sending time; ÖVP 24 percent. But it is not enough for you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, that you happen disproportionately on state radio, no, because you also want to determine how you happen! That's your concern. They also want to be able to determine what is reported in the ORF! They want to be able to determine that there must be cheering when Faymann and Josef Pröll say something! [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] They want SPÖ and ÖVP to be able to decide that this government radio has to promise you – and any non-recognition by you is already called “criticism”! All of this, however, is not new. I remember – and the elderly here in the house will certainly remember – that even earlier interventions from Chancellor's cabinets came to “turn off” reports. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I have experienced this myself, at that time even social democratic editors reported to me and said: [[Abg. Faul: Westenthaler!]] That's a pigry that Mr. Kalina shows us! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Holy shit.]] Apart from the fact that Kalina called the Küniglberg all the time at the time and wanted to ensure a certain reporting for the then Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Vranitzky, at the NR meeting in which I accused the SPÖ that the letter bomb at the time was a socialist – you remember, my credo at the time: It was a sozi! – the left side of this House has fled to the coloirs, and Mr Kalina has intervened in the ORF for so long until all of this could not be sent – as if it were a daily process in Parliament. [[Call the BZÖ: Unbelievable! scandalous!]] So all of this has already happened, so you should not pretend that the ORF is currently a paradise. But now it is added that you also want to write this into the law and institutionalize it so! That's where you have to say: This has a new quality, ladies and gentlemen! This is the attempt to turn the wheel of history back before the time of ORF popular desire in 1964! You want to turn the wheel of history back 50 years from ÖVP and SPÖ so that you can secure a media power in the ORF! But this will only take place against determined resistance. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I've never intervened in the ORF myself; You can ask any editor, you won't find anyone who says otherwise. I've never intervened! [[Abg. Faul: But the Westenthaler more often!]] There, where I worked with the ORF, for example in the field of the public prosecutor's mission, I worked perfectly with the team under Dr. Peter Resetarits across every worldly border. The ORF has excellent people who are able to lead a good lead medium in this country. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that here in this House 99.9 percent of the Members of Parliament, but also the members of the government, really have no idea how to run a media company like the ORF! Although they are not professionals, they mix in with the ORF at a “half-deep” level: You say what the ORF has to do, you say what the ORF does not have to do, you say who has to sit up there – and you want to say how to report about you in the future! That's too much, that's "banana republican", but not the standard of Western democracy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They want to have a propaganda instrument from ÖVP and SPÖ that controls and determines a propaganda State Secretary; They want the ORF to be taken to the government scandal. But believe me, Secretary of State Ostermayer: All these are trademarks of authoritarian systems! Do you want to control an authoritarian system? Is it Your concern to make this democracy a “fassade democracy” in which you decide from the government bank what can and cannot be reported on about you?- Oh, my God! I do not think at all about what may be reported about the opposition and what is not, it is rather about you wanting to decide what is being reported about you. – That is unbearable, ladies and gentlemen! We will take our stand – together with all artists, with writers, with actors, with civil society – against your attempts to make the ORF your propaganda instrument! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It may already be that one will have to talk about abuses in the ORF. It may be necessary to think about whether the Works Council should actually participate in the election of the Director. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yeah, you can talk about it. One can discuss whether it makes sense for members of the Foundation Council to do business with the ORF for years and days, such as Mrs Wentner, who is close to you. It should also be discussed whether it is possible for Ms. Langthaler to get his own orders there and – in this respect she has received her own order – to think about the CO2 emissions in the radio house. That was an “epochal” study! That too is to be questioned. It is all to ask what Mr Strobl is doing. Recently, he even tried to tear the ORF archive under the nail – under a publishing address that he used to live at. - All this is to be questioned! It is to be questioned whether the main evening program is actually attractive enough. In the last few days, the program assignment has actually only been fulfilled once: when one broadcasts a "universum" follow. “Dancing Stars”, “CSI: Miami”, “SOKO Kitzbühel”, “Dr. House”, Donna Leon, “Tatort”, “Die Millionshow” – all these are not really broadcasts in the main evening program that fulfills the programme assignment. One should also be able to discuss this – in particular those who bear responsibility for it – but that you, Mr President and Mr of SPÖ and Mr ÖVP, are useful to change the programme mandate set out in the law, as you plan it, is not acceptable! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You from SPÖ and ÖVP want to benefit from the ORF's crisis to exercise your power there, and you want to use the partially recognized bad main evening program to change the program's assignment – in turn in your sense to drive your power games. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... Main evening program!]] In the future, instead of Dr. House, we will see Werner Faymann in the main evening program and the Dancing Star will be Dr. Ostermayer, together with Dr. Hahn – I don't know how to imagine it; but believe me, even this won't improve the rates of Austrian broadcasting. These decisions should be taken by those who understand something about it – and you should stop barring legislation into that ORF from outside. That is not the task of a federal government! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The only objective criticism we make is the criticism of the Court of Auditors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] The Court of Auditors has drawn up a report which can be discussed on the subject and which would be a basis for a reform of Austrian broadcasting. For example, this report says that there is a lack of a comprehensive overall strategy – but it has been missing for years and days – that inefficient organisational structures, unrealised savings potential and too high personnel costs are present, that the staff level has increased by 13.2 percent over the last five years, that the organisational units should pay more attention to a cost-benefit ratio, rather than constantly inventing new organisational units, and that program costs are too high, which, of course, has to do with licenses and fees again, especially for sports reporting. All of this should be discussed objectively, and all this can be discussed in the House, but all this is not a sufficient pretext for the power-political attack you are planning on the ORF, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] It is also impossible to legitimise abuse of power on the basis of a Court of Auditors report. In my opinion, the structural concepts of Mr Wrabetz are a basis for discussion – I know them from the media; I have now also received them myself. One can also discuss this, and Dr. Wrabetz has expressed at least one will, as he suggests in the current legal situation, to improve and reorganise Austrian broadcasting – because the ORF has unfortunately become a reorganisation case, not only because of Wrabetz, but despite Wrabetz, but because of the political influence that the coalition parties have had in the ORF for years and days. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If the Federal Chancellor believes that he can become an “Austrian Silvio” here, this explains why he constantly grins like Silvio Berlusconi, without knowing why – but it is not appropriate that this Federal Chancellor tries to make out of the ORF a private medium of Werner Faymann – so to speak after the foreign exchange: What Silvio Berlusconi has brought together with money, I will still be bringing together with my party political power! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We will not play there, but we will resist firmly. We demand a uniform fee for all Austrians. This is where the countries are required with their country tax. It is not to be seen why the Vorarlberger should pay less than the Steirer and the Lower Austrian, or vice versa, the Steirer, the Lower Austrian and the Viennaer should pay more than the Vorarlberger and the Upper Austrian – he sees the same program. I don't see that, and neither do the Austrians. I ask for real reform and development concepts to be based on Mr Wrabetz's approach to his reformability, to be examined with international experts – not with your party secretaries, but with international experts, whether it is suitable or not, where one has savings and cooperation potential in Europe, where one can improve quality, especially in the main evening programme, where one can do more for disabled people, especially those who are deaf. All of these are approaches, ladies and gentlemen, for an ORF – but they have nothing to do with your attack to do with your power-politically motivated attack on the organs of the ORF, clean and smooth at all; for this does not ensure any increase in quality in the program, so that the ORF does not even come from the red numbers in black numbers, so that only makes sure that you and you are better on this Austrian radio. [[towards SPÖ]] [[towards ÖVP]] That's all you care about. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The opposition groups will be able to defend themselves, not only with a plebiscitary act – Madam President, it is the last sentence – but also with 60 Members, we have the opportunity to approach the Constitutional Court if you believe that you can write your power-political desire into a new ORF law. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6214	Mr Faymann spoke on the submission of an opinion. Mr Bundeskanzler, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6235	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler, your speech is easily transparent: First you make a false assumption – and then you get excited about it for a quarter of an hour. The wrong assumption is that there is some kind of bill to be found here, but there is no template for a legal amendment. If such a one is worked out, you would be a hell-seer to know what's inside. We have not decided in the Council of Ministers to decide whether or not to decide on a proposal. [[Call at the BZÖ:... pretended!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Then she probably hid the Easter hare!]] From the criticism of the Court of Auditors, from the economic situation of the ORF, we intend to draw consequences where we are responsible for framework conditions – to ensure an objective ORF, to secure an ORF that is unable to sell one or both transmitters, to ensure and to support the performance of those employees there, who are committed and – I say that consciously: also in the information field – very fair in their work. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not the “million show”!]] I am not one of those who complain about reporting – and you will not find a passage where, since I have been responsible for this government and for this government, I have ever complained about reporting as a German Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have Mr Ostermayer! He's sitting there!]] It is therefore a difference at the time when you were in the government – there were still other conditions, and you will hardly find a editor or editor who wishes the time when you were in the government again. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But the Eastermayer not!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why you are also the wrong person, both for Mr Strache and for you from the BZÖ who were in the government at the time, because, Mr Strache: [[Abg. Strache: So, I wasn't in any federal government, Mr. Faymann!]] Rather, a bank robber works for a security door than you for the objectivity of reporting! [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] There are therefore a number of tasks to be dealt with in order to secure the economic base of an ORF, which is the prerequisite for talking at all about those important points which are very much among the important goods in our society, namely objective reporting, independent companies and the possibility of creating a programme without party-political influences. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Minus 10 percent! – AK elections in Upper Austria!]] [[Abg. Kickl: A Faymann TV!]] To create this condition at all is not a small thing. It has so far been represented in the Foundation Council of 35 persons that I do not know a comparable company in Europe, which runs its company with a Supervisory Board of 35 people. – These included also representatives of the opposition parties, of whom there were no many proposals, given the economic situation of the ORF, which would be classified under the heading ‘start-up’. - So you were with the 35. The former Director-General Lindner recently told us in a public discussion – otherwise I would not mention it – that this is the case in such a way that 35 supervisory councils are not able to run a company, but that each speaker of these 35 groups will develop, with which one will then have to negotiate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr. Krammer, for example!]] – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you are right: For this type of management of the ORF – and I share the Court of Auditors’ concerns – I am not. I'm on three points. Firstly, for a smaller and thus more powerful Supervisory Board. Secondly, no representatives of parties on the Supervisory Board, who understand themselves as party representatives on the Supervisory Board. There is only one party, that is the ORF – and supervisory councils have the responsibility to be active in this field. [[Abg. Strache: Then your party headquarters will take over the ORF fees in the future, Mr. Chancellor! But the people are relieved of the forced charges, Mr Chancellor!]] And you're going to judge very carefully what the law says, you're going to judge very carefully which people are being sent, and then you can either lead the evidence – or we can lead the evidence – for your self-invented accusations. Thirdly, I am also in favour of a partial refunding of the exemption from fees, for an economic foundation of the ORF. However, I say that a reform and structural reform should not begin with an additional performance – because it is also payable by the taxpayer, even partially-refunds paid by taxpayers – but rather a reform for a healthy economic base requires a structural reform first, so that an additional contribution of policy can be required then – and not vice versa. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And the reform goes without law, isn't it?]] [[Abg. Strache: There is only the abolition of the compulsory fees that we... must!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And all this without law?]] So if we are committed to a smaller and powerful Supervisory Board if we do not want to send party representatives to the Supervisory Board who also understand themselves as such, but if we are committed to a partial re-funding of the exemption of fees after clarification of an economic basis for the ORF, this is done out of respect for those employees who are very committed to the ORF’s performance and then this is because of the conviction that neither you as an opposition party nor anyone else of the ORF should be smashed, sold or affected. [[Abg. Weinzinger: I thought there was no concept yet?]] It is necessary to protect public broadcasting by also obtaining the economic basis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are not to be measured by false claims, but by actions. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Portuguese invented all this, probably!]] And in fact it is necessary to make a proposal this year that goes in this direction, and you can then discuss how you imagine it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Did the Portuguese invent everything?]] It also has the majority of the government in the current Foundation Council with the 35 members. So that a government says she doesn't order anyone at all and she doesn't know anything at all – according to the motto: my name is rabbit, and I don't have anything to do with the company! - That's a senseless demand. [[Abg. Strache: But erase the opposition, that's the background!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is your name, “Hose”! “Osterhase”! The secret chancellor by the way!]] But do you know what's right? - When a government says: Until now, we are responsible – namely for a structure, for which participation in an economic base with a future, for the appointment of qualified persons who know the ORF and its meaning, and represented on the Supervisory Board. – And then politics has retreated. The only responsibility for these framework conditions is politics! However, it is responsible for this because it is also possible to calculate the opposite of it: Even if you can calculate the different scenarios that are now being discussed in the ORF, you will not get into the black figures at all without any additional means – in the area of the scenario recession, that is, an economic development, as we find it at present – but you will then still consume the foundation capacity that is present – and a popular student can calculate how long it takes for the economic base to be completely removed. [[Abg. Brosz:... Fee exemptions?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Only because the schools are so good schools!]] [[Abg. Newborn: Because they have good teachers! That's how I see it!]] We are not at our disposal for such an economic bill, where it seems that everything is in order. We want to open our eyes to the analysis of the Court of Auditors as a basis, and we also want to implement the principles and principles that we represent. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Neugebauer.]] This includes the drafting of a law that takes account of precisely these three points. I am therefore convinced that in recent years, the ORF has come into a more difficult situation in many areas through additional competition, e.g. through digitization, but also through the promotion of the windows of the programme, which in other areas have also made it possible to compete with the ORF. It is also the economic crisis and the questions of the assumption not only of the ORF, but also of other areas. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That does not justify your abuse of power!]] There are also a number of privileges to be discussed, which have existed many years ago, as well as the opposition there in the Foundation Council and which has not submitted any applications, Mr Stadler. Here the credibility of the opposition representatives has not been achieved in recent years, and in the time when you were in the government, of this credibility was nothing to be seen and felt at all. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But that does not justify your abuse of power!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: All of this is not a basis for your abuse of power!]] Here is a new beginning, which proves to the population that additional resources necessary are also well withdrawn – in a reformed ORF, in an ORF that highlights journalistic performance, which satisfied the seers with innovations in the program, an improved programme, and which warrants that policy creates framework conditions to prove that this ORF has a future and that all those who wait only for the ORF to ride against the wall, in order to perhaps buy out any elements, are wrong. [[Abg. Strache: That's where you lead the ORF!]] [[Abg. Strache: That's where you lead him! Just to destroy the ORF you want to contribute! That's exactly your plan! What did Mr. Konrad offer you for this, Mr. Chancellor? What did Mr. Konrad offer you for this?]] Rightly, those who want to secure the future of the ORF, who are on the side of the seers, who also have demands of this programme, must have a serious sense of objectivity. And we will take care of this process!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6669	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Next, Mr Dr. Strutz spoke at a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6697	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! High house! These were now beautiful and anointed words of the Chancellor – alone: all of Austria lacks faith, because your actions, your actions, including those of your Secretary of State, speak a completely different language. It is really appalling if you claim here that there is no law in preparation, where your own State Secretary Ostermayer gave an interview a few days ago in the magazine “NEWS” in which he presented this very new law and literally meant that the heart was a “reduced decision-making body”. Not the independence of the ORF, not the economic conditions – no, a reduced supervisory body to be able to control better is the heart! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Disengagement of the opposition!]] And I will tell you why this law has not yet been adopted, why it has not happened to the Council of Ministers, because you have proposed something completely different. They wanted, in agreement with the ÖVP, to make no assessment of this law at all, but to decide on an initiative proposal here. [[Abg. And the ÖVP will pull over the table!]] And only the intrusion of Austrian media, the closed shout of the opposition have prevented this – otherwise we would already have what you actually planned. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you were actually about an independent ORF, it would also be for you to put it on an economic basis, then you would not have sent out your Media State Secretary and executed the ORF Director-General Wrabetz medially; then you would not have concluded a pact with the ÖVP, in which you threw your EU competence overboard to solve the personnel problems and supply problems of the ÖVP; then you would not have commissioned this law, Ostermayer, as it said, as what it is, to reduce the structures and, in fact, to eliminate the opposition and its participation. Honestly, Federal Chancellor, it would be to say what you really intend to do: You don't want a critical journalism, you don't want any critical questions à la Wolf, à la Thurnher – I don't think so at the moment – but you want to have court reports, just as some newspapers have already succeeded, on public-law television. You have chosen Berlusconi as your great model – apparently Faymann mutates with this law novel, which you plan to become the “Alpen-Berlusconi”. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You want and plan not only a recoloring action of the ORF, but you want to get control of all media. In addition to the revision of the ORF law, a new press promotion law is also in place, where one also tries to create dependencies. It is not about the well-being of the company, but you are now using the financial sludge of the ORF to make it even stronger – I emphasize: even stronger! – to get influence on the most important medium. You already have this influence. They have power and influence. Is it not enough for you to call Minister Darabos and get a three-quarters interest at “Sport on Sunday”? Is it not enough for you to send the “Bürgerforum”, a broad platform of Austria, exclusively with red and black officials? Is it not enough for you that the MediaWatch will show a 90 percent share of the government in November and December? Is it not enough for you to find yourself in every “side-view” broadcast, not a football game, not a ski race without Faymann, Darabos, without any trouble? Mr. Federal Chancellor, you are actually planning the largest recoloration action in the history of the ORF, a relapse to the worst times of the red-black proportion, and you are actually planning access to the information. [[OBJECTIVES]] They're not about heads, you're not about concepts! Replying Headers: The clubman of the ÖVP head is watching all of this worklessly. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He still praises him!]] Actually, he didn't see what red steam roller passed over him. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's still cheering!]] If he had read the article in the “Yearbook for Politics” of his party colleague Morak, he would know what will flourish when this red and black pact is implemented: The ÖVP provides its artists at the European level, the SPÖ gets the flow over the ORF. And only the massive uproar and some conversations that have awakened dissidents in the ÖVP have prevented this attack on the independence of the ORF from being implemented today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] High house! What does the ORF need? – The ORF must be placed on an economically sound basis, and it will no longer be able to do so on its own initiative. In doing so, the state must stand by him. It needs a programme reform, which is also in line with the statutory programme mandate. Ewald Stadler has already referred to this: What is defined in the Austrian Radio Law? – From 20 am to 10 pm demanding program! Look at the list, it was called! Now there's a new transmission concept. The ORF's streets have developed a new format, "chosen:power", to address a new target group, namely immigrants. Because they don't work, they're home in the afternoon and they can watch TV. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – If this is the ORF’s strategy, then, “Good night!” High House! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Their task is to submit ordinary laws to create the framework conditions that also ensure the economic basis of the ORF. This is certainly part of a clear rule on the issue of exemption from fees. We need reasonable savings. Finally send the white elephants to Schönbrunn and give young independent journalists a chance to finally bring creativity into this company! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We need privatizations where it makes sense, but we do not need the abolition and circumcision of the national studios. We need to relax the restrictions on advertising so that the ORF is placed on a basis also with private individuals. And we really need to withdraw government and parties from the personnel, from the structural and financial decisions of this company. The main cause of the ORF's ruinous state is that management posts are occupied, not according to technical considerations, but according to party policy. The red lamp shines here – it should actually shine at the Küniglberg, because there is an alarm level in red. Federal Chancellor! High house! The ORF is one of the most important social policy institutions in our country, which we are proud of, which the Austrians are proud of and were like the AUA. We were proud of the AUA as an Austrian company, we were proud of the post, on the train – save the ORF the same fate and finally release it from the red and black grip!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6834	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6866	Madam President. High house! Whether Mr Strutz was just the right person to defend the independence of the ORF, I dare to doubt. Because all of us who have a little longer memory can remember that he once tried to storm the ORF Landes Study Carinthia in a group of other rabbis of his party. That's just a short reminder. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, you should not go out here and give talks as if you were at the head of a movement to preserve the independence of the ORF. You're exactly the wrong one. I believe that the BZÖ's list of speakers should have been reviewed in advance. But on the subject that we have to discuss today, I would like to mention briefly from the manifesto that, according to daily newspapers, has signed a well-known list of very veritable and very honourable personalities. I quote to the ORF: “He is an irreplaceable partner for politics, economy, culture, science and sport. He is one of the few media of Austrian identity, and hardly anyone else can take over his duties. (...) He is the indispensable partner of the Austrian film industry and almost all sectors of cultural life." I believe that this is very strikingly formulated, which is why I decided to present it here at the beginning of my remarks. I think politics is under the observation of the media and the newspapers, the population, and what surprises me in particular is: The least is always spoken of by those who pay the fees. These are the ones who watch and listen, and these are the ones who must be the target of any programme reform; these are the ones, and not the games of power of any self-proclaimed liberators. [[Abg. Grosz: That's why you increased the fees!]] It is about meeting this group that they are being served a program from which they say: Yes, it is worth paying these fees. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The second group, which is a concern to me, is often too short: These are the active and competent employees in the ORF who are now suffering from this public debate, and these are also the journalists. [[Abg. They're calling for help! They asked the opposition for this public debate, the employees!]] I would like to refer once again to the Broadcasting Act, in which the following is formulated for independence. ORF Act, § 4 para. 5 and 6 – I quote Abs. 6 –: “(6) Independence is not only the right of journalistic or programme-forming employees, but also their duty. Independence means independence from state and party influence, but also independence from other media, whether electronic or print media, or political or economic lobbys.” It is very important to me to put this out, because I have just and simply the position that I say: That's to be respected! The ORF cannot be a proclamation medium – neither the government nor the opposition! – but he is obliged to report independently. That is the crucial criterion. With you, I am not quite sure, in your speeches, what you really understand as “independence. ” [[towards BZÖ]] If so, then independence is indivisible. This is set out in the Radio Law, which is set out in the Constitution, and we all have to respect it here. We will be measured by this, and we will be able to measure it in the future. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Aubauer.]] You know very well: If this goes wrong in one direction or another, then the consequences of the quotas and the calls in. If you have the impression that there's been shy, not correctly reported, if you notice any interventions, then the spectators, the audiences and listeners simply change the channel. That's what they can do now. In earlier times – to those who today call to the current management management – there has been a monopoly situation, a reception monopoly situation and a sending monopoly situation. Now it is that almost all Austrian households are wired, satellite connections have, that the German television stations work with the Austrian advertising window, in Vienna or in other dialect forms, so that you prefer to listen, and € 200 to 300 million, you have to say that they are deprived of the advertising market. In any case, it is a radically different situation. Digitalization, the new technologies, the new challenges, online – all this, please, did not exist in earlier times, and all this has an impact on the future planning of a company. I also say quite honestly that the concept of the future and the structure – and I am not interfering now – is a matter of the Foundation Council, the matter of the Financial Committee, and we should not be wiser than those who are called upon to judge it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] They have to judge this, they have their meetings for that, they have the meetings and they have to decide. It's their thing, how it's going. One thing is of course also a fact: If a government decides before the year 2000 that there should be social relief, and therefore a loss of approximately €50 to €60 million, then this is a waste, and therefore it is justified to think, as the Federal Chancellor has said, about a refunding or partial refunding, because, of course, money is also necessary to meet all these requirements. Please, how often has the ORF been confused with a silent sports ministry, the Ministry of Culture, where sports broadcasts have been transmitted that have not even brought the quota, but without ORF the sponsors would not have been there? Or festivals in various parts of Austria; it has been said that logically, of course, the ORF transmits. – Yes, I do, I know, it's all right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] – You can then talk about Carinthia, which has been transferred from you there. I'm just saying it, because that's an essential aspect. If 650 million € are collected under the title “Round Radio Fees” and 450 million of them receive the ORF, then you just have to see it. That's all I'm saying. [[Abg. Scheibner: Make it! Do it!]] The 2001 law has also brought restrictions to the ORF, which has also summated in recent years. This is the current objective situation, plus economic crisis, less financial market revenues and price cuts in the advertising sector. Therefore, it is right to put together politics today – and only for this reason and only to discuss the material security of the ORF – and to think about how to secure the ORF for the future. That's the only motive, and that must be the only motive. [[Abg. Just go, don't even believe your grandmother, Mr. Cap!]] Wait, get in the house here. They all have the opportunity to discuss this, because, in accordance with a clean procedure, if there is agreement on it and when the EU aid procedure comes, after which we will have to make changes to the Broadcasting Act anyway, there will be a government template, there will be a review procedure, where then all, including those who signed the manifesto, will also the newspapers, also the other electronic media that are so important to us, because in reality we are indeed on the dual system, “Puls”, “Pro7”, “ATV”, which, of course, are also to receive more media promotion, and the many others are on the test stand. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And without any change, it will be pulled through!]] Then this will probably be done again, and then it will come into the house, and here inside there will be a clean discussion process, a transparent discussion process. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And no change!]] This is not going to be over here, because this is a socially relevant issue that needs to be debated thoroughly. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Aubauer.]] The latter is because it is always discussed: I am against any kind of sale, any kind of dissection, but I think the ORF must have a concept of the future in its entirety so that it can continue to work. But let's not forget one thing: The ORF is a successful company! With an annual market share in television with 39.3 percent and 3rd place in the European Union in 2008 or with the radio with 78 percent market share, with an online market share of 64 percent, you can also see this. The ORF is a successful company, and we are all interested in achieving a national effort to ensure that this company has the framework conditions, so that it has a future and that it really succeeds in securing the future of a successful company. These quotas are not a matter of course for a company that, unlike in the past, has to compete. This was not the case in the past, especially at the time of those who tell us in calls, as in the past everything was better. Earlier – when, of course, there were different deployment rates when households were not so wired when there were no satellite antennas when competition did not take place in this form. With this image of competition, it is important to ensure in an 80 million citizens a German-speaking space that the ORF can continue to fulfil this cultural task, that the element of the Austrian continues to exist in the many channels in the competition, that the flag of Austria can continue to wade in this media area. We are called upon to do so and not to fight and to carry out cheap power-political games on the back of the ORF. That should be our goal!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7034	Mr Klubobmann's head is next spoken. His speech will be divided into two parts: the first part before the part of the session, the second part after the part of the session, and a total of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7055	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I share the opinion of the proponents of the action “Save the ORF!” when they say the ORF is a rehabilitation case. But, ladies and gentlemen of the applicant parties BZÖ, FPÖ and Greens, you are now so effectively and meaningfully concerned about the future and independence of the ORF: It was two years ago your representatives in the ORF Foundation Council who brought about this situation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ]] [[New condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Her representative, Mrs Glawischnig, your representative, Mr Bucher, your representative, Mr Strache, was, and they are still sitting in this body in the Foundation Council today and are thus responsible for what you have previously criticized. [[Abg. Street: The Lord Konrad, who used the left...!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Without SPÖ it wouldn't have gone! The SPÖ was with us!]] So I'm asking you not to knock on your own breast, not to knock on the government parties. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: The opposition did not have the majority in the Foundation Council! That's absurd!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap has already quoted from the manifesto, and I repeat two or three sentences which I would like to underline: “The ORF is one of Austria’s most important social policy institutions. (...) He is one of the few media of Austrian identity, and hardly anyone else can take over his duties. He is one of the few mass media that plays not only a national but also an international role. At least he should be and do all of this.” – This is a bit restrictive. – “This is the public service contract.” I say quite clearly to the ÖVP that we are fully committed to this public-law mission, as well as to an independent, successful, just public-law broadcasting, only to ensure that this ORF can also be secured in its existence, there is an urgent need – and there I am again with the exponents – for a new law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Street: Since when?]] [[Abg. Brosz: Is this the new program? It was different under bowl!]] You do not even dispute that in your application. But what surprises me, ladies and gentlemen, is: It's not even a draft law on the table, but you're still holding this meeting here. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Also the manifesto of the protagonists comes at a time when it can really only be based on newspaper reports, on rumors. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Read the APA message!]] [[Abg. Strache: Don't read the newspapers?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: APA message 12.28 o'clock!]] Read your urgent request, ladies and gentlemen! In it is the talk of “compressing the signs, ” there are“ plans. ” They write that it is “remembered. ” [[Abg. Strache: If you want to, that's an ORF coup!]] Furthermore, “will” be“ replaced ” by“ the one or the one. ” – Ladies and gentlemen, if, on this basis of rumors, we want to make politics and discuss laws that are not yet available, then “Good night!” for this Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, back again: Let's not discuss it away: The ORF is in an existential crisis! This is not only due to the financial market and the economic crisis, it is also not only due to the exemption of fees, but also to a large number of homemade problems, a failed programme reform, for example, or the maintenance of obsolete structures in the company or – as the Court of Auditors has noted – a lack of corporate strategy, so a number of things that have nothing to do with the economic crisis and which also have to do with legal provisions such as the exemption of fees. [[Abg. Blow: Money speculated!]] [[Abg. And some money speculated!]] There is a need for action, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen: Don't put the ORF at risk by ting this dramatic situation! The way to insolvency has already been shorter for some than they believed. Let's not put the ORF at risk by ignoring the enormous structural and organisational need for reform, and let's not put the ORF at risk by pretending that more money injections alone can secure the company permanently! No, it needs basic structural reforms, and we will be presenting them to you soon. – Second part follows the interruption, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7274	Mr Klubobmann's head has interrupted his speech. I shall interrupt the sitting until 1/15 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7312	I'll start the interrupted session again. Mr Klubobmann's head is speaking for another 5 minutes during his speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7363	Ladies and gentlemen, I am allowed to continue my speech by the “time in the picture”. [[Abg. Bucher: After lunch, this is the best speaking time!]] I have said earlier that the ODP is also a very special concern of the public service contract of the ORF and that this is a very special obligation. I am also aware that this public service contract for the management of a company, a media company, a broadcasting company is a special challenge – both in terms of content and in terms of economy, no question at all. It is not easy to constantly comply with the legal mandate, to present the identity-building events in the country – cultural, sporting and so on – throughout its width and quality, and on the other hand, because, as a company in a small country, it is quite dependent on dual financing – fees and advertising – to produce appropriate quotas, which, of course, cannot always be associated with the public-law order and with what is necessary or wanted to show. I am of course aware of this difficulty. [[Abg. Oillinger: But the identity foundation is not the only task!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that the ORF would not, in the sum of these two sources of revenue, have a proper level, a proper amount of money. Therefore, the difficulty just mentioned must not, of course, result in one’s making it easy as a leadership, constantly explaining where there are restrictive restrictions – once again: on the one hand, the exemption from fees and on the other hand the collapse in the advertising market – and then go to the owner and ask for more money. – Owner is in this case the Republic and the entire population. An alternative would be to work hard and try to eliminate what the Court of Auditors has found, namely all the structural shortcomings in the company, which naturally devour a lot of money and cause costs. This is not enough, as is the fulfilment of the public service contract – if I think only of ORF 1 – to an insufficient extent. [[Abg. Oils: This is a contradiction!]] And this results in enormous need for action in several ways. On the one hand, we have to put the control of the public service contract on a neutral basis – that is also what the relevant EU directive requires – and that is why we will have to change the law – and, on the other hand, of course, we will also put the structures in place in the company. The Federal Chancellor has already pointed out that a 35-member supervisory body is not always the optimal one in what is necessary today when deciding on speed. [[Abg. Hagen: The Federal Chancellor!]] [[Abg. Strache: (in empty places on the government bank significant) That’s where I look at the government bank!]] No one is thinking about shutting down the opposition or the countries, no one is thinking about it – have you ever read anything about the composition? – to question the scope of democratic decision-making, but it must be allowed to think about efficiency-enhancing structures in this company – and nothing else will we do! [[Contradiction with Greens and BZÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... from the APA!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, decisions are being taken seriously. That is to say, there will be a proper review of a draft law, where sufficient time will be needed to give an opinion to all those involved in draft laws. It will be enough time to discuss this draft law here in this House, with Hearings and all that we have repeatedly applied and used in the past in such important legislative instruments. And there is no doubt at all that we will continue this democratic path in decision-making, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To confirm this procedure, I am now tabling the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I call on you to take part in this discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7495	Mr Klubobmann, I am sorry, but your speaking time has expired. [[In the case of the ÖVP for the Abg, leaving the speaker's seat. Head.]] The request has just been mentioned, is sufficiently supported, is also properly submitted and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7599	Before I give Mr. Klubobmann Strache the floor, I note that Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap, because of his statement “in a group of other rabbis of his party” receives a call for order from me. [[Congratulation and bravorage at BZÖ.]] Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7632	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Thank you, Mr President. Dear listeners and seers! Dear Austrians! I turn to the television audience very consciously today, because with red and black, really hops and malts are lost. To this end, it is inevitable to analyse the statements made by the previous speakers on this question today. And if you, Federal Chancellor, have said here today, you do not plan a law: Yes, please, what has been the subject of the last weeks in the Austrian media landscape? – That the secret Federal Chancellor, your State Secretary Ostermayer, has given an interview after the other and has announced that he has formulated a law that he wants to implement and decide shortly. That was the subject, please, and you can't just abdicate it! Mr. Strutz rightly said that Faymann was a “Alpen-Berlusconi”. I would rather say, however, that the “Alpen-Berlusconi” is Mr. Konrad of the Giebelkreuz regime in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the true “Alpen-Berlusconi”! When I look at Mr. Chancellor Faymann, I ask myself: What does he have with Mao Tse-Tung? Maybe he is the Mao Tse-Tung of the media landscape, because he has something in common with Mao Tse-Tung: He has never personally intervened with the media, but has made it happen to others. But it also works like this, and we know the game to the satisfaction that Mr Faymann has. There is a daily newspaper, “ÖsterREICH”, which is just ahead of the pleite, but nevertheless there are colorful high-gloss products that are financed by the ministries every week, and so you try to influence the reporting accordingly. We know that. We know these methods, and therefore it is good that all three opposition parties have initiated today's special meeting, not from jux and tolling, but from danger in delay. And what the Federal Government plans to do with the new ORF law: Mr Faymann, this is a plan that you and Mr Ostermayer have made in the media in the last few weeks, and this plan means nothing but the elimination of opposition on public broadcasting! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Bucher.]] That's exactly what you're talking about: You are about to complete the final distribution of the Austrian radio between black and red, between red and black. The old proporz, the old Privilegienstadl, which we have been able to gradually eliminate in this area in recent decades, but at least to reduce, you want to return to a GDR level. And that is really what we have to deal with today: the media-totalitarianism that we experience in some areas! It must not be that you turn back from the SPÖ or the ÖVP the wheel of media history into the fifties, sixty-seven years and create a pure red-black government jubble radio! No one needs it in this republic, but you do it with a threat that seeks the same. You have already mentioned it: In addition to the 35 members who are present in the Foundation Council, an Executive Committee of the Foundation Council should be established as a new body whose main task should be the election of ORF directors and the operational support of the Executive Board. Well, you can count one and one: The Executive Committee – the members are to be elected by a simple majority in the Foundation Council – well, SPÖ and ÖVP always have this simple majority when counting one and one. This means nothing but that you want to disable the control options for the opposition in the future with the elimination of the opposition. That is, you have exactly what all the opposition speakers have outlined today. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not the only ones who see this danger! Last Friday, the ORF Editors' Committee warned – I quote – that: “The ORF journalists – as it is said there – are refusing all attempts to take the ORF’s financial crisis on the occasion of the country’s most important media company under stronger control of party political power.” That is why it is a special chuzpe if you stand out here today, Mr Klubobmann Cap, and say you are behind the employees! The staff of the ORF have come to the opposition looking for help and have said: Please help us! What's planned is an attack on the public service station! This seems to be about bringing the public-law station even more under red-black control and continuing to cement this proportion. That is not the case! The ORF should and must be depoliticized. That's where the trip should go. And, of course, we should also consider whether it would be reasonable to decide a hearing with experts here in Parliament, whether this is Mr Mahr, whether the other experts we are inviting here, in order to really discuss the future of the electronic media. That would be an objective access – but not with such methods as they are prepared by the government bank! We want an ORF that really feels committed to the objectivity task and also implements it and increases the quality. Transparency, quality, objectivity – this is what we are asking for, but unfortunately we have not always experienced this in recent years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We do not want the government parties to adopt these decisive values and, above all, legal requirements with their feet, and of course we need a strong red-and-white ORF, which we also stand for and stand for – not a question – but not a mismanagement and a protest! The Federal Government, however, wants to go exactly in this direction! It goes towards government radio à la DDR, and one can even say that Albania is more media-political today than you are with what you are planning, Mr Faymann and Mr Ostermayer. Unfortunately, the ÖVP plays with it – and I wonder why. Why? There must be a master plan behind that, and I wonder: What can the plan look like? What is behind the fact that the ORF is systematically being led in this direction and apparently pretended to crush it in the end? There could be several backgrounds for such a project. [[Abg. Bucher: Can only be Raiffeisen!]] And I say quite openly, there is now the Raiffeisen chief Konrad, who has already cast a covetous eye on the channel ORF 1 and cast a covetous eye on the radio station Ö 3. It's been known for a long time. And Monika Lindner, a close personal bus friend of Mr. Konrad, in her time as an ORF generalist, enabled a strategic hugely important participation in a core point of the ORF power. “Of course” Raiffeisen then – with Lindner’s support – received 40 percent of the share in the ORF, the ORF subsidiary, which also received the contract for digital distribution. And of course, the ORF is very closely interwoven with ORS, with the Raiffeisen-Company, where Konrad has the decisive violence and, of course, has also developed plans. And because of the bad financial situation of the ORF, you even consider further ORS shares now to the Raiffeisen Group, say: Konrad, to sell, so that there is a total dependence in the area of the distribution of the ORF program, a privatisation of the ORF in favor of the media giant Raiffeisen – in the sense of Conrad. You, Mr Faymann, seem to be playing part in this master plan, because otherwise I cannot explain your approach to this question. As a thank you, Lindner “falls soft” after her election and today advises the media holding of Raiffeisen. The managing director of this holding is ÖVP member Ferdinand Maier. [[Oh-Rufe, Deputies of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] – Many who are close to the Conrad Raiffeisen Group are sitting here today on mandates from the ÖVP. By the way, the ORF Foundation Chairman Pekarek is also part of the Raiffeisen Group, and even the ORF Boards in September of the previous year did not rightly demand the resignation of Pekarek. All these are developments that need to be looked at in detail. And I say that these monopolistic developments and efforts must be prevented! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is therefore necessary to protect the ORF and we are therefore proposing the following resolution: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is called upon to express itself strictly on media policy against monopolistic developments and aspirations and to ensure the independence of ORF and ORS.” In conclusion: Save thoughts, transparency, quality, objectivity – the Austrians expect this from a red and white-red ORF, which they also want. But if this is to become a party-political device of red and black, then in future the Party Secretariats of Red and Black will also pay the fees – and not burden the Austrians with their manipulative reporting, a reporting without quality, without objectivity and without transparency! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have been wondering again and again in recent years when I think of the forced payers who have to experience over and over again that one fee after another is increased, and that in this quality, in the absence of objectivity – and you want to worsen it even further! – how you can justify that. They should actually pay the seers pain money for what is offered to them in part. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You should think about all of this, instead of trying to construct a media dictatorship here in the sense of the red-black proporz system. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] This will come up against strong resistance, not only the opposition, but also the entire Austrian population!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7753	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7860	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. 10 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7882	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) While we are talking here in the house about the future of the ORF, about the red and black sluggish grip, the Federal Chancellor makes a full confession to the public, namely to the APA. A full confession! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kopf and Mr Cap may still try so much to spread the concerns about the concern, but what has just been said here is clear! You said: No one is thinking about shutting down the opposition, shutting down civil society. Federal Chancellor Faymann says that in the future it will only be occupied in such a way that there will no longer be any party representatives in the central bodies of the ORF. At the same time, he says that in future the government will occupy everything alone, that is: SPÖ and ÖVP. [[Abg. Petzner: Exactly!]] [[Objection to SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: ( towards SPÖ and ÖVP) Read the APA!]] Is that depoliticization? Tell me, do you want to sell us for stupid?- Oh, my God! Or who do you want to sell here for stupid? That's incredible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is not about the opposition, but it is primarily about civil society, which has a right to it, and above all the fee payers in Austria have a right. They want a good feeling when they see news in Austria. They want the certainty that this is true, they want the certainty that no stories are turned here or even turned off. This right must also be defended, and that is why the special session is already a first success today, because: If there had not been this special meeting, it would have, prepared in the back room, given the whipping of an ORF law with certainty – with certainty! That is why today's meeting is a success! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, if You want a transmitter, then buy one, but release the ORF! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Faymann buys the media anyway with ads – and with tax money!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you say that we are based on false assumptions and then we are unfounded. Now I want to take a closer look – and do this together with you – how you have prepared this over the past few weeks, how perfide you have prepared it and how bold and insolent. One of your main arguments was always the comparison with the AUA and the reference to the absolutely dramatic situation: The ORF is in an incredibly dramatic situation, and it must be prevented from being alarming, it threatens a disaster. – I would have liked you to have used similar attributes in other, particularly relevant questions, whether they are the economic crisis, the state-owned industry, the ÖBB or the AUA, namely “terrorist” and “destruction”. Let's take a closer look at this: The end of the ORF is moving in a range of 80 million € this year. It's a company that's not in debt. This company is financed by fees and advertising. € 300 million from the fees paid by the Austrian households does not receive the ORF, but they are broken down by the national leaders and the Minister of Finance: 125 million € of the Finance Minister Pröll, 110 million € the heads of state, Erwin Pröll. What's he doing with it? – In Lower Austria, only a fraction of it is actually spent for culture, for film promotion, the rest simply goes into the budget or – I don't know – in court state events or in things that have nothing to do with media promotion, with independence, with objectivity for which the fees are actually intended. We should also talk about this! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] €300 million is “snacking” the state governments, the state leaders and the finance ministers, and you are talking about a dramatic situation, about a disaster at €80 million! You have to take this seriously, however: That compares with the AUA is bordered on call murder! I think it's even worse than call murder. 500 billion – in the last National Council session, this was no problem at all; the AUA needs that, there is no alternative. - 500 million, excuse me! [[Abg. Head: millions! Don't exaggerate!]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: millions, not billions!]] But it's gonna be more! 180 million was the loss last year, 430 million this year. What are the relationships, what is really a disaster, what is so dramatic now with the ORF, a company that is not in debt and has to manage it on its own initiative, if, for example, the exemption of charges for the socially weak, those who do not pay any fees – what the legislator, what we so to speak, as well as the ÖBB or the Telekom – is financed not from the company, but from the public hand as it belongs? Why do you want to do this first – and that makes the blackmail so clear! – as a gift of understanding? The income gift for a new management could be the refund of € 57 million for the socially exempt. The gift of revenue! Why was it not possible to do this before? Why Escape Is it first the economic basis to create an extortional situation and then to exchange the entire management of the board to redefine the directors? And so to speak, as a gift of revenue, it is then possible to simply add €60 million. What is this strategy, if not an extortion strategy?, I ask you. And you didn't say anything about that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also find it a shame to be involved in such a way by individual politicians. Head of State Pröll demands the redundancies of the ORF chief. [[Call to the ÖVP: Right he has!]] – “He’s right,” you say! Your representatives always say that politics does not interfere in the design of concepts, in the design of programmes, even in the choice of directors, otherwise you decide for yourself anyway. Then make it directly political, but then don't go the detour over a board of foundations. “Right he has!” – That was a smooth admission to debt. They just want politically unloving people away! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is the task of this new executive body, where you say we don't need to worry at all, no one needs to worry here? – That only with the red and black majority of governments is ordered. No one from civil society, no one who has other duties to represent except the government, should sit in there. And the exclusive task is the choice of directors. Now I ask you again: Is that all you think of an economic rehabilitation to exchange people? Do you not understand the suspicion that not only the opposition, but also civil society and, above all, the editors express in all their clarity that this is exclusively about political access to power in public broadcasting? – You haven’t said anything about this yet, but ORF journalists warn against growing political pressure in a sense that we haven’t experienced for a long time. I would like to present this to you once again, because you say that everything is so casual and somehow just based on rumors. That's what it says: ‘(...) The ORF journalists refuse all attempts to take the ORF's financial crisis on the occasion of the country's most important media company under stronger control of party political power. They join the alarm calls against growing political pressure on public-law media throughout Europe. (...) As little as politics would have to interfere in personnel decisions and the journalistic work of the ORF, it should finally do what it is responsible for: create proper legal framework. Not ‘only’ for the ORF, but for the entire Austrian media landscape.” And you don't discuss that at all! You are talking about your new executive organ and are totally ignoring the needs that would actually be addressed. Our way out is, I believe, very clear, and perhaps you should consider it seriously, namely 100 per cent fees for really a hundred per cent media independence. That's not only the ORF, it's also the case with other channels. 100 per cent of the expenditure available to households from their wallets, from their budget for public, reliable, regular reporting, should also be included in the reporting, not in any cultural schilling, in the budget of Mr Pröll's head of state and his court events, but 100 per cent in public, ordinary, objective coverage on radio and television. This insolent abuse of the charges that is happening now should you first stop before you think about political access to people in a company that is far from in a dramatic and catastrophic situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8062	The next item is Mr Petzner's speech at 6 minutes' desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8085	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My first appeal to this live broadcast is: Mr Bundeskanzler, end with the fairy tale hour that you have given of yourself here today! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Stop telling your filth! She doesn't believe you anyway. That is what I am now telling you on the basis of concrete examples. They present themselves today in front of the High House and explain to the people outside, there's no novels at all, you don't know any novels. [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: Do you know her?]] I know her because today you yourself reported about a novel in an APA report of 12.28 a.m., in which you report in more or less parallel exactly what you are planning with the ORF. They say that the Foundation Council should be reduced to 12 to 15 members. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... opposition out!]] Then reason. You're exactly from the Executive Committee you don't want to know anything about here. They also say, as Mrs Glavischnig has already said, that there should be no party representatives inside. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Only government!]] There's hope then, a bit of Obama's courtship, where you're thinking: Well, he might have gotten it. But two lines further you say, but of course, government representatives – that is, representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP – should be inside. This is exactly the recoloration action you are planning and we are going to prevent it by all means. That is what I am telling you at this point. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The “best” is yes, you also announce a further increase in fees in this APA message by saying that more money from the state for the transmitter is imaginable for you. – Thank you, the fee payers say! Bad program, SPÖ and ÖVP portfolio reporting, propaganda reporting and higher fees. Thank you, Federal Chancellor Faymann! That's your understanding of a working media democracy. If you say you don't know anything about this novel, then everyone in this house knows that this novelle is in the drawer of Ostermayer Ostermayer and that Mr. Klubobmann Cap, your clubman, who is against your reform efforts in the ORF, has played this novel to prevent exactly what you are planning with the ORF. This is the truth that there is a dispute in the SPÖ: the Clubobmann Cap against the Federal Chancellor! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's exactly how it is!]] He has himself played this out to the Austrian Press Agency to prevent exactly this novel, which you and your State Secretary, Mr. “Osterhase”, without parliamentary provisions. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The same applies to Mr Klubobmann's head. This is also an expert who has once again shown his incredible incompetence as a clubman. I always wonder where the ÖVP has excavated this clubman who always pretends to have nothing to do with Mr Wrabetz. [[Abg. Newborn: Slow!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – Wait a minute, don't get nervous! I have a question to your clubman, not to you. Mr Klubobmann Kopf, do you not know that in the election of Mr Wrabetz, two ÖVP works councillors elected Mr Wrabetz? Two even: Heinz Fiedler and Roland Schmidl! [[Ah-run at BZÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] Explorers You first, inform yourself, and then stand out here and give wise speeches! I'd like to give you the APA notification on this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you go further from the ÖVP than under Director-General Wrabetz, whom I can warmly welcome at this point – I warmly welcome him to the House; no one has found it worth welcoming: Welcome, Director-General. – Sodom and Gomorrah broke out and everything was wonderful under your Director-General Monika Lindner, then I remind you of the editor-in-chief Werner Mück, who was not necessarily a hord of objectivity, as you may know yourself. If you now say that it was objective, ask You will find the entire ORF editors, who are sitting there at the top of the ORF cabin and who have all suffered under your Werner Mück, who is now in charge of TW1, or who are now already in retirement thanks to God. They are also talking about suspicions, the opposition is presumptuous. They say we'd suspect and speculate anything. [[Abg. Grillic: What else?]] Do you know that your own ÖVP Federal Party and Finance Minister always suspect? He always suspects anything! At the beginning of this legislative period, he said no new debts. That was the motto of the ÖVP. Then he went here and said he suspected that the new debt would be higher, about 2%. Now he has gone here and said he suspects that the new debt will be even higher, 3 or 4 percent. So don't tell us anything about suspicions! Ask your own Federal Partyman! He has not been in control of his own budget and refuses to submit this budget to Parliament until 21. April. Finally, I will go into the SPÖ-ÖVP resolution request of the clubmen cap and head. This is especially “loving. ” Mr. Klubobmann Cap, have you read it yourself? [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the said request up to date.]] - I'm not quite sure. What's in here is really very interesting. You write: “The applicants” – that is, the SPÖ and the ÖVP – “call in this context § 4 para. 5 and 6 ORF law in memory:...’ [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] Here you admit for yourself that you have already forgotten these paragraphs that you do not comply with these paragraphs, that you have never kept yourself from reminding your own Federal Chancellor of these paragraphs. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to say to you once again that this also shows the problem in which the ORF is currently located. In § 4 para. 5(1) states that the ORF ‘must ensure an objective selection and dissemination of information’. I'm asking you, is this happening? – The Body is poison green and today fits exactly with your policy you are making here, and is not light orange. [[Abg. Riepl: (showing on the speaker's body) Is there the body also in orange?]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] – This objective reporting does not take place now. In § 4 para. 5(2) states that it is a matter of taking due account of the diversity of opinions expressed in public life. I'm asking you, is this happening? – No, that’s not happening now and will be even less with your novelle. This is also the ORF's problem: He was never independent and will be even less independent with your novelle. [[Abg. Strache: The body is yellow and not poison green!]] Abs. 6 is even the best paragraph! If it goes after you, Mr Klubobmann Cap, or after Mr Ostermayer, then this paragraph would have to be deleted at all, because it says that independence is important, and: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] ‘Independentness means independence from state and party influence...’. And you want to abolish this very independence. We will defend ourselves with all means, together with the fee payers outside, together with the media, with the newspapers that have formed this platform “Rettet the ORF!” We support that. They're not going to get through with this ORF reform because we're going to resist the most. That's what I guarantee you at this point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8323	Just for memory, because there have been intermediate calls in this regard: I'll set the desired speaking time. The red light shines on. The debate will be suspended after 10 minutes, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... a regulatory seminar!]] I would like to draw attention to something else. There have now been several statements in which the names of ministers and representatives and others have been mistreated. We have been holding this debate more often in the past and have agreed in the Presidency on failing to do so. I would also like to remind you of this at this point. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you saying this to the member of the government?- Oh, my God!]] Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Hahn, is speaking. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8370	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is indisputable that the ORF faces a difficult economic and structural challenge. It is therefore appropriate to discuss this. Because this is such a serious issue, I am squatting myself in the face of the crocodile tears that have been shed here by some opposition representatives in the last two hours. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No polemics from the government bank!]] I am referring to your requests, among other things. You, Mr Petzner, have just made a bit of fun of the resolution tabled by the government parties or have criticized him in terms of content. I hope you put every word on the scale and choose carefully when you formulate your urgent requests. [[Abg. Scheibner: You're ruling! You're supposed to do something!]] Or if you were to “hinder ” them, it would be so to speak illuminating. But You write, among other things, in this urgent request: ‘The Federal Government is invited to take political influence, in particular from the government side, on the company, on the occupation of posts and on the planning of programmes,...’ Now I wonder: Does this mean, in reverse, that the Federal Government is being asked not to effectively exclude the political influence of the opposition on the company if you so to speak raise the demand that only the influence of the government would be excluded? [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Bitch.]] So I would ask that you measure things with the same degree and conduct a serious debate here. And I'm looking for you for this serious debate. [[Abg. Strache: You're trying to be crazy, but you can't do that!]] [[Abg. Brosz:... Successor of Morak!]] I have not heard a real contribution to the content of the debate today, which would have dealt with the question, which is, in fact, the requirements for public broadcasting at the beginning of the 21st century. ==References== [[Abg. Ollinger: That's incredible!]] What is the role of public broadcasting at the beginning of the 21st century? - Century? We have to hold this discussion! [[Abg. Oils: You didn't watch!]] [[Abg. Brosz: You should ask the bowl! He knows exactly!]] I can recall how some 45 years ago Hugo Portisch started with other people of this popular desire. There were a lot of topics back then. Much is logically no longer up-to-date. But two things remain valid to this day, I believe, when it comes to the ORF and its future. On the one hand: The ORF is the most essential medium when it comes to the identity of our country. There are also excellent employees available for this, there are excellently anchored editorial staff in the country, which, together with partners from the creative economy, as well as science, ensure that this discussion can be conducted, for example, about the identity foundation of Austria. Secondly – and this should also be remembered –: For three years, it was then discussed with a public-law order with great seriousness, while offering to domestic and foreign experts the question of the positioning of the ORF. Now we no longer have the time to discuss it for three years, but we have this discussion very well to conduct. And today's debate was once again marked by the fact that we are discussing structures and people first and by no means about strategies. We have the task and the commitment to discuss this in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, too, and especially here. To be honest, it is bizarre to think that a law could be smuggled by Parliament. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] How can you, ladies and gentlemen,... – Yes, then I wonder what task the opposition here in Parliament fulfils if it is obviously unable to bring itself into a legislative process. [[Abg. Street: How can one raise the chambers in the constitutional rank? I've already experienced it! The absurdities of this government!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] So: They are called on to hold the debate here in Parliament, first of all on the public service mandate, then on the structures and then on the finances. [[Abg. Oils: Incredible!]] And the personnel decisions will be made by those who then have the organic responsibility. [[Abg. Grosz: You have never been to Parliament!]] That is why I should like to ask you, namely that we have an ORF debate with this quality, with this claim, with this seriousity and with this seriousness, because that is why we are committed to the most important medium of this country with its great employees. [[Abg. Strache: Then start with it!]] And we have this responsibility here together – whether government or opposition! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8576	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann, Member of Parliament, with 4 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8600	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Government! High house! The basis of this discussion is the very difficult situation of the ORF. Let us first analyse the basics that the ORF has and on which he now has to work, and then return to the topic! The basis is that of course there is too little money in the company. This can be combated by two ways. The first is: You can find new structures out of yourself, you can find out from yourself new approaches that have already been presented in a strategy programme. The ORF has done its homework, has provided a basis for discussion, has also clarified savings potential, has essentially presented a programme. The second point of analysis is, of course, the framework conditions: What are the conditions in which the ORF is embedded? – The framework conditions are set out in the policy. And these framework conditions currently include the following financing variants: The first funding page is the fees, the second financing page is advertising revenue, the third financing page is the financial results. It is a question of whether public broadcasting should also be financed by financial results. We must ask this question quite clearly in the course of a reform, because if this third pillar is a question of using financial resources, but not of keeping up with the needs one has, then it is a pillar that breaks away and, I believe, is not a task of public-law broadcasting, namely to refinance itself by means of an appropriate financial means; but there is probably a substitute for having a public-law radio, if you want to have the funds. That means we have to pay the fee page. And this fee page is also internationally highly interesting. This fee page accounts for 72 percent of Swiss television expenditure, 78 percent for BBC and 83 percent for ARD and ZDF. – At ORF, only 57 percent! So if you want a fee-based channel, you probably have to do it on an international scale. I think this is the task of politics. We are discussing today what approaches allow for an economic recovery of the ORF. If you want a fee TV, you probably have to bring about international approaches. I do not think it appropriate to seek the replacement in financial statements. And the last page is advertising revenue. This third side is also economically conditional on the framework conditions which are given nationally but also internationally. We must not be surprised at the fact that at a time when we are just sitting, this site does not bring about the result we want, and then the ORF comes into a position. That is, we have two possibilities: to adjust the framework conditions and to redesign the structures within the ORF. Both sides are served, and I don't think the excitement is appropriate now. But one thing I don't want is to make the ORF poor with allegations that don't vote, because 64 percent of the population believe that the ORF works very well to well. [[Abg. Petzner: This is what the State Secretary is doing in interviews!]] There is an acceptance of 40 percent of the annual market share. This is the third place in Europe. There is also a market share on the radio of 78 percent. This cannot be bad if it is accepted by the population and called good. However, we politicians are required to set the conditions here. And if you know that too little money is in the system, we have to make sure that enough money gets into the system.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8639	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8661	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen on the government bank! A short while ago, the colleague Petzner, who really gave a talent sample as an actor from the play “Das Nullerl” in Styrian Laßnitz. You've got a zeroerl on your body today. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Dear Stefan Petzner, I honestly say to you that I would have expected more seriousness in this discussion, and I am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a Finance Minister, who is now not only committed to budget figures, but for whom it is a concern and a command of the hour to keep people in employment, that people have work that people can earn income. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ]] That is responsible policy! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP stands for a pluralistic, diverse media landscape that meets European standards and in which fair competition can take place. These conditions shall apply to both the printing sector and the electronic media and the so-called new media services. I believe that with the Media Service Directive, we have facilitated the financing of broadcasting events for private providers in Austria and thus also secured the location in international comparison. We thus make a fair and important contribution to securing dual broadcasting in Austria. I think it is important now to draw up an overall strategy for the ORF in a second stage, and we all have a goal: We want an independent red-and-white radio in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: As a Conrad vote, you want to sell the ORF to the Raiffeisen Group! You're the Conrad vote! You want Mr. Konrad to buy the ORF1 channel!]] Mr. Strache, your coffee study will be crushed like a soap bubble. I'm always wondering where you got this information from. The ORF is an important partner for politics, economy, science, culture and sport. Let's say that honestly, too! We need this Austrian identity, we need this red-white-red identity in the institution of the ORF. [[Abg. Strache: But you don't see it that way!]] That's what I see, Mr. Strache. You can't harm us here because we mean it honestly and we're acting responsibly here. The ORF is now in an audit period, and there is also the corresponding Court of Auditors report. However, this is also the task of developing a comprehensive strategy for this broadcasting. This is our task here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Straw: The scrapping of the ORF1 channel on the Raiffeisen-Korad – is that your strategy?]] Don't refuse, join us, bring in your ideas! This is a competition for ideas here in this house – take advantage of this opportunity at last, and practice You are not always in cheap opposition policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Who else, if not we, should make the conditions here in this House, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Objection to FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens]] [[Call the Greens: We from the ÖVP!]] Who else, if not we here in this house?- Oh, my God! [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Has You're not afraid, we're going to clean up with the failures that exist so that we can carry out proper financial planning here – and we can get what we all want, an independent red-and-white ORF in Austria, with quality, with transparency, comprehensible. [[Abg. Strache: Just like the AUA, so successful!]] I think that's important, and that's what people in Austria want.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8789	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8811	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by saying two or three more sentences to my previous speakers. First to Clubobmann Cap. The interesting thing about him is, always when he has to say or say something he is not really convinced of – you have to watch him in advance – he always scratches and slides around the chair a little bit. I have met him as a man of dialogue, who is quite in all directions – at least when it comes to minority rights, then, when it comes to technically eliminating any injustices – someone who is at least good will. This time, ladies and gentlemen, is over because now the Federal Chancellor Faymann, as SPÖ CEO, is to lead his group and, according to the latest plan of the Foundation Council, where all the political bodies were represented at least with one representative and all the socially relevant groups. According to O-Ton of the Federal Chancellor Faymann, only more government representatives are to be represented. I think the Federal Chancellor and SPÖ Chief Faymann are confusing a lot. He confuses the Republic of Austria and the ORF with the MA 53 of the city of Vienna, with the PID, where either the mayor has called Häupl or he has called, according to the motto “You wish to play us”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This then does either the PID or the new confidant of the Federal Chancellor, the Karl Amon, who has already shown himself to be the head of the Studio Vienna, as he does media politics in Vienna. I think he will have only two telephone numbers in the future: the one from the “Uncle Hans”, the other from the “Uncle Karl”, by Karl Amon, is Faymann’s favorite for the future ORF general director. [[Abg. And the furry! That's the cousin!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me qualify the Orf's miscarriage a little on the basis of the program scheme. On the one hand, there is the Duo Faymann/Ostermayer, a bit like the “Dancing Stars”, which miss out on every step they take. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] No matter if this is, for example, the AUA, which under his aegide as a minister of transport was only so properly flown towards the wall, whether this is the ORF, which has been put into media discussion for a year, or the next comapatient who is already threatening, ÖBB and ASFINAG, who will go together towards 20 billion debts. That's Faymann's policy, and he obviously confused a lot. The Republic of Austria and the complexity of the decisions are not the dictatorial constitution of the Federal Capital of Vienna, where either the mayor calls Häupl or he calls and everything happens that they wish. There are still democratic rules of play here, which you completely ignore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition to the two “Dancing Stars”, there is something like the “extra room” – you remember, this was this flupped production of the ORF – where the ÖVP sits inside, which is currently so happy that it is allowed to present to the EU Commissioner, and the SPÖ leaves it to the ORF General Director. – I appeal to you: Talk to your clubman, talk to the people in your ranks and ask them if they really want the ORF to be completely reddished! I believe that a very serious damage will be done to democracy. Another group is the "Million Show", which is the directorate of the ORF. I would have liked to see a leading Social Democratic – Faymann, Cap, Ostermayer, as they are called – raise his voice when disillusioned without end, if the Director-General of the ORF deserves more than the Federal Chancellor and if the Federal Chancellor deserves more than the Obama he so conspired. That's indecent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And the worst thing at all is that two directors of the ORF, who only change their function and the room, have half a million to pay for it. Half a million as a deal for the Information Director and the Programme Director, who both left more than bad marks in their effects! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have not said today any word about the fact that the ORF has long since left the public-law course, that the ORF repeats its broadcasts three times as often as ARD or ZDF that the ORF lowers its program quality – I just say “in the middle of the eighth” et cetera – that the ORF is far away from Bavaria 3 or BBC. They are not concerned with the public quality and the programme mandate and that all groups are represented in the ORF. They're just about: How do we direct the management bodies of the ORF, how do we manage to influence as much as possible as a party there? That's a more than wrong thing. This policy, since the “Uncle Hans” and there call and believe the “Uncle Karl”, it works like in Vienna, it can’t be! And I am pleased that all three opposition parties have found a basic consensus here to oppose raising their voices together. I'll tell you one thing: If it succeeds in bringing blue, green and orange under a denominator, then really is fire on the roof. And you should consider recoloring public-law broadcasting in such a way, this public-law radio, to which we must confess that there is a chance that Austria's identity-making feature must have a prosperous future and must not take a more than bad future in the party-political strangle by red and a little black. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to write to you from Social Democracy in the main book: Is it really your view of a reform and your labour market philosophy that up to 1,000 employees in the ORF are more or less placed in front of the door and not a word of criticism that is collected above without end that millions are celebrated in Kitzbühel Hully-Gully, that millions are cashed – more than the chancellor deserves – and that a policy of looting and wasting fees takes place that is more than unfair?- Oh, my God! Let me conclude by saying: This one of your policies, what you've chosen in terms of ORF, will be the goal we're fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8896	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8918	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Josef Cap, that was probably one of the more difficult speeches today, I suppose, in recent years. We know each other from the ORF debate for a long time, and I can well imagine how Josef Cap had given this speech, it would not have been a red and black government, but a black and blue government that would have prepared this law. There would have been killed – rightly killed – if it had been made aware of what was planned for access to the ORF, and it would have been spread out all that happened in the years before. This is, I believe, also the point where we have our biggest problem with Federal Chancellor Faymann, namely his concept of independent reporting. I would like to return to what was before the situation in the ORF was first escalated, namely in 2006, when the era Lindner/Mück ended. Who can still remember this ominous and famous appearance delivered by the Federal Chancellor during the “summer talks ”? For the people at home to remember: There was Mr. Jelinek, who moderated these “summer talks” and so that the Chancellor could come into the picture correctly, the chair, which was used in these “summer talks”, was led by the car from Küniglberg to Mr. Bundeskanzler – well-noticed by Mr. Jelinek personally – and a seat test was made and looked at whether the Chancellor was really coming into the picture. And I believe that we have rightly been excited about the fact that this has nothing to do with independent reporting. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: That was the chancellor bowl back then, gal?]] - It was a bowl, yes, yes. And if one finds one, one can find after this change in 2006, then it was that a random reporting towards a party in this form, I think, no longer took place. You can say a lot, but that Gusenbauer, who at the time was also criticised or mentioned as a fellow architect, had experienced a special protection by the ORF in the last two years, I don't think anyone can even claim the opposition. One only remembers the “Report” with the Sage – how was that?; but let's leave that! – with the “süder”. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: “Suddery”!]] All this has been revealed by the ORF, you have to say that. One has to imagine whether this would have been possible under a bowl that anyone from the ORF would have put such a sage in the program if he had made a bowl at that time. That would have been impossible at the time that such a thing would have found the way into the ORF. And that was the quality that has changed – with all the criticism that still exists on the ORF. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, I find your form of media policy quite worrying. Let's take a look at: What have you done in recent years? They have been that minister – and this has been the case for the first time for many years – who even surpassed the Federal Chancellor in the advertising expenditure of his ministry. [[Abg. Street: millions to the newspaper “ÖsterREICH”, so that they do not have to go into bankruptcy!]] Ministries have an unprecedented practice of influencing reporting. This works so that there is a lot of money for ads, for media cooperations, which is expected to make reporting happy. Who was the one who took most of the money in order to color the reports about his ministry in order to ensure a positive reporting? – It was the Minister for Transport Faymann, who spent more than €6 million in 2008 alone from tax resources for media cooperation. And that's exactly with the media – you can look at it – in which reporting was particularly Faymann-friendly. This is a form of political reporting and “independence” that is deeply contrary to us. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] You, Mr Faymann, have used the media very consciously. They were the one who then went to the “Kronen Zeitung” and had his famous Europe letter spread about the “Kronen Zeitung”. By the way, they were also the top candidate who brought it together to boycott the TV confrontations in part. Who can't remember broadcasts on ATV and Pulse TV in the election campaign, where the empty armchair or the orphaned speaker's console could be seen, because Mr Faymann simply didn't come? These were formats that were not so easy for politicians, partly quite difficult. Who didn't come? – Federal Chancellor Faymann. This is exactly how you, Federal Chancellor, operate media policy: There is money then, there will be funding if such reporting is made. And you're saying this at ORF's identity and clearly now, too: First of all, my reforms are being implemented, and then we can talk about the financial foundations. And that is exactly something that a Federal Chancellor absolutely does not belong to us. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Let's talk about what is paid in Austria month after month by month by payers at so-called ORF fees. Everyone's probably gotten annoyed about it. Whenever you see anything on TV that you don't want, you'll say: Pui, and I paid fees for that, I don't want to! – Yes, it is understandable, everyone will have his areas that they do not like, but that belongs to a public-law channel. You pay in the month 22, 23 € – that's different – and everyone has the feeling that they are going to the ORF. – The whole amount goes to the ORF! Of the ORF fees only €15.10 really go to the ORF. Lower Austria is a wonderful example, because you pay €22.70 in the month, i.e. €8.20 in addition, and they are beautifully divided, namely to the family Pröll The Finance Minister Pröll is the one who gets the money, and the other is the head of state Pröll, and they can then market the money very well. [[Hello-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Street: And the Conrad is in the background!]] It was particularly funny that you are sitting here, Mr. Hahn, so to speak, as an Alibi black man who is allowed to sit down on the government bank today. In fact, the Minister of Finance should sit there, the one who attacks the ORF just as much because of its difficult financial situation and takes €125 million a year from the ORF fees and markets in the budget and thus makes everything possible, but does not promote media diversity. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] And the second courageous man is sitting in Lower Austria: This is the Erwin Pröll, who de facto makes the same thing and is funding its national charges there. So this already has a hypocrisy that can hardly be surpassed, that there is a third of the ORF revenue for state funds and for budget revenue being foreign – much more than the deficit is. I therefore put to the vote the following motion for a resolution: The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council a draft government proposal which, as a result, will be re-funded to the ORF the exemption of fees for groups of persons with a low net income from the budget. By the way, this would be in about the order of magnitude if one came back in 2008 and admitted that there were expenditures that were slightly out-of-tour because a football Europe championship and also Olympic Games do not take place every year in Austria. It was a large part of the sports money that flowed in. If you take this away and say that the normal result could be made in such a way that these fees can be balanced, then we would have corrected the acute problem once and could then seriously talk about structural reforms that will also be needed in public-law broadcasting. What you do to extort the ORF financially, to influence and to go about reporting on finance and ultimately question the independence of ORF, that is unworthy of a German Chancellor in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9044	The application submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9095	The next speaker is Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9117	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens, which are still enthusiastic about using the ORF programme after a multi-hour debate! Of course, many are wondering: Is that really a topic, this ORF? In view of the tragedy of 500,000 jobs lost by the end of 2009, is this a topic when, on the other hand, a German chancellor says no more than that and a Vice-Cancellor loses €5.8 million for representation? Is this an issue, this ORF, if we have some short work in Austria and the Federal Government, as part of its own short work, also wants to forget the short work of fellow human beings? Is it a matter if we have a new poverty in Austria, as we have not yet known it, as it at least has not known my generation? Is it a matter of having economic forecasts that the economy is breaking down by 4.8 percent, as we can read in the media today? I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: Yes, it's a topic! This public-law broadcasting, this ORF, is also a subject in these difficult times, because it should be the only medium, the objective medium that should critically light this situation on behalf of the citizens of our country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The ORF has the task – not least through the law – not to practice itself in monarchist court reports before the Faymanns, the Prölls and the Ostermayers, but at last to give those people in this country a voice that has no voice at all, which are left completely alone in their poverty and in their concerns by politics – red and black. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We therefore also have this discussion in this House, because in the future we need again journalists who understand their work order in such a way that they are on the side of the citizens – and not on the side of the party headquarters in Lichtenfelsgasse and Löwelstraße and from there receive their orders; because we need journalists who also reveal the problems of the people and do not practice the kneeling of partygoers and political officers; because the ORF is not just a technocratic company with an XY sum of employees, but a company that – for us at least, for the BZÖ – is the symbol of democracy, neutrality and also of political hygiene. Therefore, we are also fighting for an objective ORF and against the party-political influence that takes place every day from the Ostermayers and Faymanns and how they all may be called. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ORF is not a self-congratulating self-service shop that is run over the “Molto-Phon” via telephone calls and interventions. The ORF has a legal mandate of citizens to objectivity. And what picture is there? – Look at yourself, ladies and gentlemen, who are still watching today. They turn on the “Report” and see there for hours Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann as protagonists of a home story about the pictures of his Chancellor's office, as he shows what's so beautiful, what's crafted and what new furniture he has. Does this correspond to the problems of the Austrians, if we allow a sensuous German chancellor to sing about his own collection of images? Shouldn't a German chancellor try to get us back to work in Austria and get the economy back to work, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What is the picture of the ORF when, in a mission called the “Citizens’ Forum”, it is allowed under the aegis of the Director-General, a latte of government politicians appears and the famous fish of Mr. Kreisky is put to death: It will get better again with a homeopathic vaccination. You lose the job, the land goes down the stream, but dog tores, after he has bitten off the sausage. It'll get better again! Is this the ORF's critical public service mission, Mr Wrabetz? I'll ask you that! That's what you're gonna do! We won't let you out of your responsibilities either! What kind of picture does it offer when you see “sport on Monday” and a sports minister who doesn’t understand anything about the German army or sports, who is a philosopher for an hour on sports policy, and who is away from an ordinary sports policy in Austria for miles?- Oh, my God! That is why I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: The ORF is not the property of your handhelds, your press speaker! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The ORF needs to defiltrate again in the future, I say to you: it will be deselected by your red and black political officers who have driven this company down the stream. You need to know that you do not do it on the back of your own party headquarters, but on the back of the fee payers. You forget! The people who are watching here today can watch the ORF serving them Wrabetz & Co. every day. We are therefore also on the side of the fee payers who, with the votes of the Greens and Social Democracy and with the logically also a Mr Küberl of the Caritas, were once again tormented a few months ago. People also have to pay for TV scrap! For a non-accessible program where participation is not even possible for people with special needs, they also have to pay. We are fighting for an ORF, which we promise you, dear seers, who in the future will return to the order of the fee payers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9196	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9218	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Mr Grosz, we now know how the BZÖ is preparing for a debate on the ORF: They take old canneds such as “sport on Monday ” and try to deliver them to the present time. Mr Grosz, I saw sports minister Darabos on Sunday, when he gave very well-founded answers to questions of doping. [[Abg. Grosz: You don't believe that yourself!]] – It can be seen that in its media policy, the BZÖ focuses on historical reserves. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The whole discussion we have already held or conducted here today has, in my opinion, been carried out by the opposition parties that they are disadvantaged in the ORF and have too little influence that they probably want more “sport on Monday” broadcasts and more in this direction. [[Abg. Petzner: That objective reporting takes place!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the ORF is the market leader. His offers are reflected for the listeners, for the seers of Austria, as well as Austria's place in the world and in Europe. The ORF is an important fishing point for identity and home country, and many of the ORF's broadcasts are topics of discussions in businesses, at various meeting points of the population in the following days. The ORF has a comprehensive programme, and the range – which has already been mentioned several times today – is much larger than with other European public channels. Two thirds of the Austrians believe that the ORF does its business very well or well. I think we must build on the fact that the ORF's public-law mandate is perceived as ensuring plurality and independence. – You think of the opposition to hear the grass grow. You are likely to find any fantasies related to the time you were in the government, ladies and gentlemen. The Foundation Council will be smaller. Federal Chancellor Faymann has said here today – you can all read it in the Minutes – that there should be a smaller Supervisory Board and not “no Supervisory Board at all”, dear Mr. Vilimsky! There should also be less or no party representatives. [[Abg. Petzner: Without opposition representatives! Only with government representatives!]] So these are the structures with which it will continue in the development of the ORF. There are also the Court of Auditors' reports. There was a report of the Court of Auditors in 1996 and there is now a current Court of Auditors report. The current Court of Auditors report states that the overall strategy should be considered in relation to the ORF. – The preliminary work has already been started, and the Court of Auditors welcomes these efforts. This RH report pointed out that there should be more flatter structures and less managers in staff. – There are also efforts on the part of the ORF to have 25 percent less executives. Furthermore, a reorganisation was stimulated in marketing. – This too is in implementation, and marketing is summarized in a department. Staff agendas should also be included in a department, as stressed by the Court of Auditors. – This too is now at work. It is therefore apparent that the Court of Auditors, with its reports, provides support for the work of the ORF. Due to the negative result in 2008, the ORF is now in focus, and many self-appointed “saviors” act and speak badly of the economic situation and the programme offer. Sometimes I wonder: Are there any self-interests behind that? We from SPÖ advocate a strong market leader, for an independent market leader who focuses on the public interest and on the plurality.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9290	Next speaker: Mrs Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9313	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The future of Austrian radio is inseparably linked to the future of Austrian culture, and this is also the reason why I am speaking today as an ÖVP cultural speaker. I am less concerned about the independence of the ORF, because I think we have a good system here in Austria that we can rely on. However, I am much more concerned about the future of Austrian art and culture, because in view of the course which the ORF is currently taking, such concern is justified. It is necessary to monitor closely the processes involved. It has already been quoted today by the then general intern of the ORF, Gerd Bacher. Bacher was active at a time when the ORF was a show business. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: I think so! There was still the ÖVP mastery unbroken!]] He even spoke about a central institution of Austrian identity. And that's right! At that time, the ORF had a network of correspondents around which many envyed us, there were programme innovations, creative broadcasting concepts, and above all there were a variety of Austrian productions, which unfortunately no longer exist in this form today. This has influenced this phase, and this has also enabled us to enjoy a high cultural status. If we look at the ORF's program today, we notice that unfortunately, there is not much left of it anymore. If you put on the comparison with German private channels, there are now quite a lot of similarities, with the only difference that the US-American series are shown in the German private stations within a week, while they are broadcast from us on one evening. That is why the spectator, the spectator, rightly asks: What about the program assignment of the ORF and what about the differentiated overall programme of information, culture and entertainment? To use an example from Germany: In protest against the contents of public-law institutions, the well-known literary pope Marcel Reich-Ranicki even rejected a German television award to express his dissatisfaction with what public-law broadcasting offers. Of course, it is a symbol act, surrounded by Austrian circumstances, but it simply expresses the state of the citizens who sit in front of the TV every day. Ladies and gentlemen! The ORF argues that the current approach and also the purchase of many US-series are mainly concerned with the acquisition of advertising-related target groups. This will generate young target audiences in particular. I can only tell you from my own experience: Young people are already regular guests on other media platforms. They can't be attracted in this way anymore! The fact that there has been a breakdown in advertising is now clear. This is indisputable, and therefore it will also be up to the Director-General to find answers to this situation in the discussion with the Foundation Council, where this new approach will also be considered very critical. I would particularly like to take up a party for a affected industry, which has not yet been addressed today, namely the film industry. The Austrian film industry has achieved many successes: Oscar, Oscar nominations, many international prizes. What bothers me personally is that the ORF has not managed to use this potential and these successes. Austrian productions are broadcast sometime in the middle of the night, and an Austrian TV film or an Austrian "universum" contribution is shown only once a month. That's far too little! A further deepening of the situation threatens if discussion is now underway or communication that there is a possibility to announce the film/TV agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the only way to achieve demanding Austrian productions, especially because the public hand also contributes a part of it. I would urge you to waive the fact that this would mean a thinning of the domestic production infrastructure and definitely also pose a threat to the entire value chain. I could now give many examples of why it is necessary to launch a novelle. For the Austrian musicians, it is no different with regard to the ORF radios, as it is for the film industry. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of the Media is invited to respond to structural, economic and cultural problems. The motion for a resolution tabled by Klubobmann Head provides important inputs. In any case, we of the ÖVP are in favour of ensuring the future of public-law broadcasting; the ÖVP is definitely a guarantee of stability and economic efficiency. Our interest, ladies and gentlemen, is in the programme and the cultural mission.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9366	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9388	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear viewers! Dear management of the ORF! It is a very valuable debate that is being held today because it is of great value and is also historically interesting that three very different opposition parties from the circumstances of the hour have made a common request for this meeting. That's not about it! Interestingly, the Federal Chancellor spoke of the phenomenon of an “imreal project”: There are no projects on an ORF law. On the other hand, the Secretary of State, Ostermayer, is sitting next to you. March 2009 in the “NEWS” to the question “When do you expect a new ORF law?” answered: “Before the summer, it is under review, in autumn it would be decided, and it will apply from the beginning of 2010.” – Good. – ‘Herzstück is a smaller decision-making body with eight to ten persons’. No one really notices that a certain – I don't want to say particularly intelligent but interesting – falsification strategy is taking place by pretending that Austrian company law would be such that the decision-making body of a stock company, let's say, because the design of the ORF in the form of a foundation is very similar to a stock company that would be the Supervisory Board. Please, this is still, and to clarify, the Board of Directors. The Executive Board shall lead the company under its own responsibility and shall make all relevant decisions, with the supervision of the Supervisory Board for certain materials allocated to the Supervisory Board for approval. That's the heartpiece. So I'm asking you not to turn this thing around. If you say that it is too many members of the Supervisory Board, the Foundation Council, that they are not suitable – well, it is not up to you to withdraw those from you who have sent you unfit persons. We have nothing against it at all. You can also take out of 35 ten of yours, or also 20. That can't be it, that can't be it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is therefore the centrepiece that seems to exist after this statement that the monitoring body, which you refer to as the decision-making body of eight to ten persons, is to be responsible for the appointment of the Board of Directors on its own initiative, which has already been pointed out by previous speakers. If we are now holding fast and debated in suspicion of the fairness of this line of thought, then the presumption of stupidity should not be added to this presumption. There is no real epoch in the history of time, we have said since 1955, or exactly since 1965, as, it has to be said, the ÖVP has set the Alone Government and decided the Radio Reform Bacher I, in which the desire for access by political forces, if they were left, did not drive their un- and their primacy. There is nothing else, please, now in the content or on the programme of your project. ==References== ==References====External links== I am apodic about the rainbow coalition, even though the ÖVP will be insulted forever on this matter. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They took her away from the radio! Lindner/Mück was abolished! [[Abg. Head: And what is the result?]] The result was an improvement, but not a perfection. They want the withdrawal, back to the initial facility in which the ORF society is under the rule, the possible rule of an ÖVP structure! [[Abg. Head: Interesting!]] That's in the heart of your project, and that's why you can get on this deal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] The independence of the ORF is something that stands on the procrust bed every day. One last sentence: I demand that the ORF orchestra not be dissolved! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9487	Next, Mr. Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9509	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! The series of ÖVPs have become quite clear, but the topic of ORF is not quite that interesting. It is also not a member of the government of the ÖVP here, not a Minister of Finance. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Yes, I know the science minister came too late, explained the world to us briefly, and then he left again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] This may have to do with the fact that it is unpleasant to have to attack one's own law – which you developed in the years 2000 and 2001. This is, of course, very unpleasant; that is to say, that the law was not in order at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, I was the Foundation Council soon afterwards, and I can tell you that all... [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] At that time I was not in Parliament. You need to take a close look at the laws. – At the time, all members of the Foundation Council, ladies and gentlemen, no matter what closeness they had to any party, did not know why the broadcasting charges are not one to one transferred to the ORF. No one could explain that. This is in reality – and we must be aware of this – a special tax, ladies and gentlemen from Social Democracy, one that is not subject to progression. That is, the rich and poor pay as much as they do. [[Abg. Weinzinger: All the same!]] If the entire state budget were that way, we would have no money and no second unrest. That is why this is something very strange, which, of course, belongs to abolished. Let's go dry once: If three million households would pay €800 million in total to ORF in fees and get €100 million from business activities without advertising revenue, then the €900 million will be, and the ORF is actually already covered – without advertising revenue! That means that this is very important; this economic dependence would then be gone. In fact, there are two dependencies which the ORF has, namely, a political and an economic one. If the program is not massive, then the quotas decrease, then the advertising revenue automatically decreases, and that is the reason that the ORF is constantly producing very strange Boulevard and has not a little damnation clause. This has to do with simply producing more in the direction. The task of a government would be to prevent this and to reduce this economic dependence. But that's not what the government is doing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] She doesn't do it because she always has the management on the gangbelt at all times. That's what we're experiencing right now! One can, as it were, come with the economic argument and demand redemption at any time. The government could change that. But the government could also question something completely different, for example the Landesstudios. These are another 100 million to 200 million €, which can actually be saved. It must be explained to some adult people that Austria, which is about the size of any average federal state in the Federal Republic of Germany, has nine more national studios, but for example an office such as in Washington or Brussels works well. So it would be the same with offices, but of course these heads of state must be served. It's a feudal system that stops there. I wonder if all Austrians really want to see their Walter Ulbricht as their respective head of state at 7 p.m. There's a need for action! I think that it would be possible either to reduce the fees by up to 20 percent or to make a better programme. [[Abg. Street: Or reduce the national studios from nine to four! East, west, south and north!]] We are now in the process of political dependence. It actually works like this: The Director-General and his team will always be attacked with a legislative innovation if they are not accepted; that is, a new law is coming. But because they know this over years and decades, all who accept the job do the following: There is something like self-censorship, they start from the outset to consider whether they should not be more positive or at least not very negative to the respective government. I call that a conditioning in the worst political sense, always under the title: In order for everything to get better, a new law will be developed and brought out. Mr Cap is just going out – I am sorry, I would have liked to remind him of what he criticized in 2001, because it is as current as it has never been. It fits exactly today! At the time, he wrote to the government: “I claim that after the defeat in the municipal and municipal elections... you will be” – the government meant – “now try harder to enforce your power in Austria. You will talk to the opposition even less,... Therefore, when it comes to this ORF law, it is not your concern that this law should ensure the independence of the ORF, and then it is not your concern that the ORF should have secured its economic existence... in the future.... They want to switch the ORF straight. The ORF is supposed to be a government-dependent body that can finally influence listeners and seers in such a way that they “definitely deliver different results”! [[Abg. Strache: A true word! That's true today!]] That's exactly what you can do today for what you're planning! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9613	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. Your group's remaining speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9634	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! I hope we don't get bored here. We have the impression that if you sit back there – that reminds me of “Pat & Patachon”, you know this duo. I know it's unpleasant for you... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yes, at least now the SPÖ Group is getting stronger. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! It's a special meeting today, it's about Austrian broadcasting, especially important! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I know my colleague Cap has already said this: You are uncomfortable with the debate today. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] He said here – but probably for another reason: The editors are suffering from this ORF debate. Mr Cap, I do not think the editors are suffering from this debate, but they are suffering from this political pressure, which you are constantly exercising here and which you are now also writing into the law. We want to stop that! That is why we called for this special meeting, and that is why we also tabled this urgent request from the BZÖ. We want to protect exactly the independent editors from the pressure you are exerting from the court reporting that is to be used here. That is the reason for this special meeting, and this debate will have to take place both the government and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I know the ÖVP's a little bit past this. [[Call at the SPÖ:...not even there!]] We also tried to discuss it a little bit, but did not really find a contact person because we had the impression that there was no interest in anyone. I understand you seem to have divided this: The newspapers – about raiffeisen and other ownership structures – report positively on your things, and the ORF should report positively about the SPÖ. [[towards ÖVP]] But that, I think, is not the point of how we imagine the media landscape in Austria. [[Abg. Großruck: Al Jazeera reports positively...!]] That's where you agree. So far, nothing is done against the crisis, nothing is done to correct unemployment accordingly. But you agree on the post-chacher, on the proporz and on the distribution of the media of Austria: on the one hand, the newspapers, on the other side of the ORF. – Not with us, ladies and gentlemen, certainly not with us! In a democracy, it also needs an independent, objective media landscape, and we will support it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] When it comes to illuminating the financial situation of the ORF, let us say one thing, Mr Wittmann: Not the way you brought this! Because that was interesting too, and you have to listen carefully when the SPÖ speaks here. He said: If you know that too little... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Clearly Listening You're not too close because you're always sleeping in your own rows. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: What?]] But then I'll tell you again. Mr Wittmann said: If you know that too little money is in the system, you have to see that more money is coming into the system. – You hear and marvel! What does that mean in practice? – Increased fees! Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, you have already raised the ORF fees. Not a second time, ladies and gentlemen. Go with the handle into the pockets of the taxpayers, the Austrians and Austrians! Ladies and gentlemen, be economical in the administration, and make sure that the fees actually come where they belong, namely the ORF – and not that most or a large part of these fees go to the national leaders or again to the finance ministers as a basket money. If the national leaders want to have more tax money, then they should be given the financial compensation – and if you want to invest something for culture, then you should do it on cultural promotion, but not on the detour of the ORF-payers! [[Abg. Strache:... Landesstudios delete!]] Fees yes – we do not want to interrupt by advertising spots – but then exclusively for Austrian broadcasting and for raising quality in this area. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] In this sense, Mr President, my conclusion: Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann said in relation to the ORF that it was all right. – Hugo Portisch, on the other hand, warns against states of à la Berlusconi and Communism in this context. In case of doubt, we believe Hugo Portisch.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9765	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9786	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Respect and truth are apparently no size at BZÖ. I would like to clarify this and say: If someone comes out here as a speaker and compares Mr. Faymann and Mr. State Secretary Ostermayer with "Pat & Patachon", this is really disrespectless and unreasonable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... “Tick, Trick and Track” also say!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] If a youth speaker of the BZÖ stands out here and promises to the people through television, this is a dangerous threat – you know how BZÖ deals with the truth. I can only remind you of the following: The BZÖ party founder has once claimed and also promised the population that no member of his party will take more than 60 000 schilling from the population as sale. – We know that did not agree. We know that exactly that partyobmann who founded your party then had difficulties because of fees from the party's bank, in millions of heights. The colleague is the best witness for this. [[Abg. Petzner: Be careful, Mr. Cot...!]] Mr Petzner, don't tell us fairy tales! You have made promises here, but you cannot keep them. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Weinzinger.]] [[Abg. Petzner: That you make allegations here...!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We in politics have the task of ensuring that the ORF is taken out of the daily discussion, in a situation in which you have brought it with your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ. [[Abg. Grosz: Last-class, Mr Prehauser!]] So, what can't we do? – We must not in any way injure the ORF, we must by no means destroy it and not allow privatisation. We confess to the dual system: We want public-law broadcasting, but also want private broadcasting organisations to be able to work. [[Abg. Grosz: You are the incarnate bottom drawer!]] In this context, I should also like to congratulate Mr Ostermayer. Since he is in office, we see that private radio and television operators for the first time have the real feeling of being understood. Thank you, Mr Ostermayer, for that. Since some colleagues are so upset, I can only say: Of course the truth hurts you! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] But it was so, Mr Westenthaler, that you were just a professional intervener with regard to the ORF; we have seen it several times. [[Abg. Grosz: You are a zero...!]] Therefore, Mr Westenthaler, don't pretend you don't know anything about it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We see it as our task to support the ORF – also to ensure that in the ORF the revenue it has is channeled to a use that enables it to survive. [[Abg. Grosz: You are the deepest drawer, Mr Prehauser!]] Of course, it is opportune to ask what the revenue from hearing contributions is when a third of it has to be dropped. Of course, you have an eye on it and sometimes look at this matter with sadness – and you also want it to be different in the future. Of course, the ORF also has a responsibility of its own. He should think about it and consider whether he really needs to “dance at all weddings” – or whether at some weddings other rapporteurs might be more efficient and cost-effective. Personally, it is a concern to say the following. I get annoyed at any larger sporting event, such as a downhill run at the cockenkamm, about the fact that one hour before the “transmission” starts – and then often only one hour is spoken before the race starts. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't know what a ski race is, that's your problem!]] If you can't do anything else in the hour, I'll ask you there. This is not really my case; at least you should think about it on the part of the ORF. The Court of Auditors has clearly identified the measures to be taken. All of us should work together to make sure that we think about it even in the ORF. Then we can help the ORF. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Take this back!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, will probably not be here in the next legislative period, but at least in surveys here you may still be able to participate. [[Ironic cheerfulness at the BZÖ]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9995	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Haimbuchner. Your group's remaining speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10017	Mr President. Mr Bundeskanzler Mr State Secretary! An essential foundation for a functioning democracy is the independence of the media. You, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the so-called great coalition, which is no longer quite that big, but rather is getting smaller and smaller, are responsible for the media being increasingly deprived of this foundation, namely independence. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, are just taking the ORF's last appearance of independence. Although they of ÖVP and SPÖ have a dwindling voter's claim, they want more and more influence on Austrian broadcasting. Mr Kopf, who is now moving towards the exit, has already revealed the position of the ÖVP by criticizing this "regenbow coalition" in the ORF. Mr Kopf has shown what the ÖVP is really about: Without the ÖVP, there must be nothing more to be done in this state, without the ÖVP, no ORF General Director may be appointed. That's why you're doing it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Kopf, you should think a little bit, because it is obvious that you did not have your own people under control by the ÖVP at the time, just at this crucial meeting of the ORF Foundation Council a few years ago. [[Abg. Großruck: “Without the ÖVP” means that! Learn German!]] If ÖVP-near Foundation Councils had not voted for Dr. Wrabetz at the time, there would not be Dr. Wrabetz as ORF General Director at all. That's why the ÖVP is: She wants power for herself. – However, we liberals will ensure that the power of the ÖVP disappears in this country. In the ORF, there is indeed a need to change, and the Court of Auditors report has been addressed several times here today. Yes, there are some things that are to be clarified and pursued, in the direction of efficient organisational structures, towards unrealised savings potential, high personnel costs, inconceivable salary allowances, high pension claims, extremely generous settlement schemes and so on. Directors, including national directors, received credit ratings for objectives to which they did not make a significant contribution. Additional costs were charged for the external production of “In the Centre”, amounting to €570,000 annually! You have to imagine this: All of this just because the mission “In the Center” takes place so to speak outwards. As far as the ORF is concerned, there is much to be done, and there is also much to be seen in the Court of Auditors' report. But one thing I have not really read in this Court of Auditors report, namely that the Court of Auditors would recommend that the Board of Trustees turn off the opposition. The Court of Auditors has not spoken of this with any single word! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But that is why you strive clearly from the ever smaller “great coalition”. It seems that you see the ORF law from red and black as a “operating accident of history”. It is quite unacceptable to you that other parties are represented in the ORF Foundation Council: not only red, not only black officials, but also a liberal official can sit there, for example, also a greener, also one from the BZÖ. But you don't want all of this from SPÖ and ÖVP. They want it more like the ASFINAG or the energy industry. They want it everywhere as in public enterprises: Without red and black, no one can become anything in this country! Either you're a red one, or you're a black one – and now you want to pack it out completely. Now we are going to negotiate who will be EU Commissioner, who will become the next ORF general director, who may be getting a higher position in the energy industry again. That's proporz, that's quite, really messy, as we've known him from the last decades! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you one thing: The Freedom Party, of course, says an ORF in Austrian hand, yes to the independence of the ORF, yes to the freedom of the media and the press – and no to the omnipotence of red and black!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10100	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Maximum speaking time: 4 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10122	Mr President. Gentlemen on the Coalition Bank! It must be said immediately that the coalition's cuddly course on the topic of ORF is obviously over. From the ÖVP Minister Hahn was here in the short term, he briefly explained the world to us and went back. The ÖVP even waives the last speaker or speaker in this special session. That means, in fact, only: It's none of our business, we're not interested in it. Mr Grillitsch said earlier: Who, if not we, stands for an independent ORF?- Oh, my God! – I can only say that is the usual superiority of the ÖVP, which here believes that it itself has all this in hand – and the rest is not interested and cannot. However, I would like to remind you of what is contained in the editorial committee's report by the editors and editors of the ORF. It says quite clearly: No “berlusconisation” of the European media landscape is allowed. On the contrary, only in times of crisis are independent public-law media even more important for a living democracy. But do you know – this is now addressed to the ÖVP – which European party family Berlusconi, the media mogul, stands for media abuse? At the European People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. Do you know what that means? Do you know who you got there? You have someone who seems to give you advice on how to make it happen in Austria as well as you would like it to be – you prefer everything in your hand, and no one else is allowed to talk with you. [[Abg. - And that's the tax money!]] That's not how it will succeed, my Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to say to Federal Chancellor Faymann: Mr Bundeskanzler, in your speech it was mainly about the gross recomposition, namely: in the future without opposition and without independent representatives of civil society. Also, the three representatives of the audience who were directly elected by the audience do not want to have any more in the new body. So you want the best thing to be the government alone, what the ORF is supposed to look like, and that's it. No, Mr. Bundeskanzler, your speech here was an alarm signal – especially since you have to be directed by Mr. Stadler from the BZÖ that artists are also very important! That's what I'm signing, but that's really an alarm signal. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you have an disturbed relationship with media diversity and opposition, you obviously only want court reporting. Mr Bundeskanzler, the monarchy has been over for almost 100 years and will no longer be established in the ORF, neither among you nor among anyone else! We too will ensure that this no longer happens! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What astonished me, too: In your speech, there was no single word about content – for example, that the ORF, as it stands in its mission, is the window of Austria to Europe and the world. I have also not heard a word from you about the importance of European and global perspective in times of this crisis. You have also lost no word about whether you might remember to support the initiative of the European Broadcasting Union, in which the ORF is a member – I mean the initiative with the aim of bringing European and global content magazines together in this European context. No, you don't care. But does this really surprise anyone here in this plenary, on the gallery or in front of the screens? – Not really, not me either; for Chancellor Faymann is the one who has gone here and said: The Commissioner or the Commissioner in the European Commission is not interested in me either, the one or the one to have the ÖVP, we reserve the supremacy in the ORF. Mr Bundeskanzler, that's the worst exchange policy in a government coalition! This is a rejection of any independence of the ORF and also of any European policy of a government that you are in charge of. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can only say: No Berlusconization of the ORF! We will stop this development! There will be no such thing in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10186	I call Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10208	Ladies and gentlemen! It may be very good if, as the last speaker, I use the opportunity to thank the employees of the ORF. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Contradict with BZÖ, FPÖ and Greens.]] I don't understand what you have against when you thank the staff of the ORF. I think the ORF is an important leader in the media industry. He is said to be an independent and strong leader and has a high responsibility in the media industry as a whole. I have followed the debate very closely today and I would like to make two comments. On the one hand, I would like to say to those who have arroganced here that we have to consider whether the staff in the ORF can be brought back to the time of the year 2003. It can only be meant to eliminate what has already been achieved to encourage precarious employment and employment of free workers, rather than leading them towards employment. I can't imagine that's the goal. We have a massive development in the media sector towards an enhanced precariate. We have a lot of young people who only get more internship jobs. There are many efforts and efforts to prevent this. We cannot go there now and say that we want to reverse the small step we have taken here! We need fixed employment conditions in the media – and especially in the ORF, because it should be an example in this context! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I come to the second point, which is very important to me. Mr Mag. Stadler has said so nonchalantly that one can talk about whether the participation of the works councils must take place as it is. I say very, very clearly: Play Please do not use this important piece of democracy! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Turn around and tell the Federal Chancellor!]] [[Mr Bucher, Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek and Mr Strache.]] We are talking, all of you here are constantly talking about the need for democracy. Also works councils and works councils are part of democracy, don't forget that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The issue is that the possibilities of the works councils are not restricted and will continue to exist in the future – also as a model for the ORF to be in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10279	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We now have four requests to make. We shall first come to the vote on the self-employed request of the honourable Members. Ewald Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on “The ORF must remain independent – maintaining a party-independent public-law Austrian radio instead of the planned red-black government radio”. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cap, Mr Head, Mr Cot, on measures to ensure the future of public broadcasting in Austria. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 22.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, on the threat of sales of ORF and ORS to Raiffeisen. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, fellow Members, on the refunding of the exemption from fees to the ORF. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[15:08:15]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-03-31-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10371	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 570/A to 586/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 1517/J to 1555/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Tuesday, 21. April 2009, 9 a.m., and will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
