ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e2055	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 44. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocol of 43. Meeting of 5. In November 2009, the Parliament's Directorate remained inconvenient and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Worm, Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Plassnik, Schittenhelm, Dr. Sonnberger, Weinzinger, Jury and Scheibner. Ladies and gentlemen! I have seen the stenographic protocol of Mr Dr. Peter Pilzin's speech during the last sitting. As can be seen from the Minutes of this plenary session, Dr. Peter Pilzder has used the “crime of the Austrian People’s Party” expressly, thus insulting an entire political party of the House. I am in favour of this expression and I am in favour of Mr Peter Pilz's call for an order. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e2110	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich. [[09:02:12]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e2146	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e2384	According to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure asked for the self-employed motion for a resolution 852/A(E) by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the implementation of the decisions of the National Council of 24 May. In September 2008 it was urgently discussed on the financing of universities. Call for urgent request will take place at 12 noon. I announce that the meeting will be broadcast live by ORF from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. to 3 p.m. I'll interrupt the meeting until noon.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e2423	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[12:00:46]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament on the implementation of the decisions of the National Council of 24 December 1990. September 2008 on the financing of universities (852/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e2459	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 852/A(E). Since he has now been approached by all the Members of Parliament, his reading by Mrs Schreiber is not sufficient. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e2541	I now give the floor as an applicant for the urgent request to Mrs Club Chairman Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. According to § 47a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e2565	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister of Science! Minister for Education! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Honourable spectators on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! It is now three weeks since the students took protest measures and occupied audiences. The reason for this was obviously not something specific, such as the removal of a social requirement that concerns it, but the achievement of a pain limit throughout the education system, especially at the universities. Keywords: Space distress, need for renovation, chaos, frustration about precarious working conditions, burn-out, high drop-out rates, als-ob maintenance, hourly waiting in front of the hearing halls, protests at all levels, whether in Audi Max or outside, protests in central construction and also harsh criticism criticism from the rectors. Overall, this is, I believe, a very worrying situation – including for the political system – and it would be wrong not to take it seriously, and that is why we have requested this special meeting today. These problems must no longer be turned under the carpet, as a quick solution is needed. However, we do not want to combat symptomism, but we want to see a real discussion, a serious dialogue with all these people in the education system, that there are no fewer students and more barriers, but vice versa: more people who have access to education and the reduction of barriers. That's our goal today! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The protests have triggered something very remarkable – and that is, I believe, very important: It's not just about the universities, it's about a broad discussion about the whole education system: Who are the universities to serve? What is the meaning and purpose of a study? Who should be given access to education? Where are the real barriers in the education system? This is a discussion before which the political leaders have spent many, many years. It is significant that the students have been looking for the end of the shoulder with students, with many people working in the education system, for example with kindergarten teachers, and that they have chosen the image that the university is “burning”. In my opinion, the entire education system in Austria is “burning” and today we are called on to provide solutions and answers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Students have a great deal of respect and respect for the fact that they have made this discussion so broad. They do not fight for individual interests, but for a new education system and for new universities. From my point of view, that deserves respect. From my point of view, less respect deserves to be given to the response of official politics and those responsible at the moment. The reaction of your Minister of Science, Mr. Federal Chancellor, was extremely cynical at the beginning. It's extremely cynical to say it's part of a student life to protest once. I am not of the opinion that it is part of the life of a student to have to protest in order to be able to study at all in order to be able to study barrier-free. On the contrary: That should be a matter of course! One should be able to assume a fundamental right to education in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The term “some students” gives you the feeling: They're not legitimate that I put myself together with them! – I think every citizen is in principle entitled to approach a minister and talk about abuses. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Only one month and three days after the outbreak of these protests offer a dialogue, which is a real provocation! Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, you said you were behind your Minister of Science. – However: Her Minister of Science is already with a foot or with both feet in Brussels and leaves a real sniper at the universities of Austria. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister Hahn is no longer capable of action, he is no longer capable of packing. He made the first offer of dialogue only when he was nominated as Commissioner. And he's still claiming that he's leaving a good situation here, that everything's okay. At the same time, however, thousands of young people protest on the streets in the capitals of Vienna, Linz, Klagenfurt and Graz. This is a sharp refusal of reality – yes, the worst refusal of reality! – and thus a proof that the government does not want to solve the problem seriously in this crisis, because it is now sending a minister in dialogues, in talks that are no longer acceptable. What else can he promise? What can he really do now? That is why we want you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to make available to the protesting students in Austria a suitable dialogue partner, namely a science minister who actually wants to solve the problem and not just sits out and hopes that the protests will break down sometime. That this doesn't happen, we're going to take care of it anyway! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They would have had the opportunity to appoint a new Minister of Science/Minister, Mr Bundeskanzler, and thus to give a clear sign: Yes, we want a solution! In the process as it is now established, the suspicion is more than hardened that it is only about defending the status quo, sitting out the whole and continuing as before. That's why we're going to make a distrust proposal against Minister of Science Hahn today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The students in Klagenfurt were on the 10th. November, a few days ago, prominent support received. It was the ex-Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer, who presented himself with a poster entitled “2 % of GDP” and was photographed with the protesting students. He has put himself on the side of the students who are demanding a doubling of the university budget in the next few years. The Federal Chancellor Faymann, one of the essential questions we want to clarify today, is: Which side are you on? The last days were marked from my point of view by the complete lack of orientation of SPÖ: first of all, let alone a declaration of solidarity for students, then the opinion that the university occupations are not at all good, then a step against restrictions on access, then a yes to access restrictions, on some days even several press releases that contradict each other. So complete disorientation! [[Call at the FPÖ: It must have a double-goer!]] Or several people, several Faymanns – multiple personality. In any case: No approach to address this problem seriously and to develop something like leadership, to make the solution of an acute university crisis the chief thing and to show leadership as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr Bundeskanzler, you can make proposals today, we are waiting for it – not only us, but also many who are here today! We are very eager to wait for your suggestions on how you want to improve the study conditions that are unacceptable, how you want to solve the chronic underfinancing, the chronic hunger of universities over years now, how you want to change the situation that all studies in Austria are not in the middle of the list in international comparison, but at the end of the list. How do you want to change it, Federal Chancellor, that many young people will be deprived of their future and their prospects for the future by the fact that they are being put in the way of hideous barriers in the education process? I would like to raise one particular point here: There are also some people here today who are deaf. Do you know how to study with a disability in Austria? That's a real challenge! These people are indeed absolutely limited in their right to education, which do not even have a chance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, we are waiting today for answers to our demands in our urgent request. However, we would like an answer to the question: How do you keep it with promises? I have found a quote from you last year, where you have declared it your motto to people “nothing you can’t keep. It is necessary to reconcile objectives and implementation possibilities in order not to lose confidence and credibility". Yes, you can only underline that. That's your motto, Federal Chancellor! At least you spent it that way. Mr. Federal Chancellor, how do you really keep it with promises? – How do you keep it with promises made by Parliament, not just once, but several times, by majority, with unanimity? How do you keep it with promises of government parties in their government declarations, of the SPÖ several times, of the ÖVP several times? How do you keep up with your personal promise that you renewed ten days ago, namely to actually double the university budget and thus to go exactly the way that many international institutions, first and foremost OECD, propose to put the famous 2% share of economic performance into the university sector? How do you keep up with this promise? This is the content of our urgent request today. We don't want more, but we don't want less than that this promise will finally be fulfilled. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This was included in the request that the Broukal colleague then negotiated, including Mr Graf and Mr Grünewald, where this House has largely confirmed that this objective should be tackled as soon as possible, with a roadmap, with very specific objectives, as the budget should be increased every year. And there is the question of why this has no binding effect at all, neither for a Federal Chancellor nor for a Minister of Science or for a Minister of Finance, namely to take this seriously? Above all, you personally, Federal Chancellor, I ask that if you take it so carefully with promises! That is the content of our urgent request. We want to achieve this goal today. We want this promise finally to be fulfilled. It is remarkable that you do not do this, while many countries in Europe have tied up economic packages due to the economic crisis, which go beyond what we demand here today, which have used the crisis as an opportunity to link up economic packages in the field of education. Today, you can also give an answer to why the Economic Research Institute – that institution you hold to define economic policy – criticises that Austria is investing in concrete rather than in education. -Why don't we turn this around? Today, a first step would be possible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, there is a history of this university emergency: This is the reduction of education under black and blue since 2000. [[Call the FPÖ:Na go!]] Of course! Examples of this are: the declining share of educational expenditure in all these years, “firearm actions”, emergency regulations. I also remember the Minister for Education Gehrer, who had been responsible for education for a long time. The ÖVP already has ten years of educational responsibility in Austria. Mr Bundeskanzler, I ask you why you are going through that the Minister of Finance and Head of the ÖVP acts as if all of this did not concern him at all as if he were not dealing with the chronic sub-financing of the education sector at all, and he is extremely disrespectful of the students – extremely disrespectful! – by speaking about actionism and blockade as regards the protests of students and saying that only protesting and preventing others from studying is wrong. Maybe Reply You also have the question: Who's really blocking here? Who is the upper-blocker in education policy? Who prevents? – In my opinion, it is the Minister of Finance! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] He didn't find it worth appearing here today. Would've been nice. [[Abg. Head: He's coming!]] Yeah, maybe he's still coming. I must once again explain the disrespectlessness, because it may not be known to everyone. In connection with the university crisis, the vice chancellor speaks of “miscarriage. ” He said: “I will not allow loud groups to try to take politics, country and taxpayers into hostages.” [[Abg. Eßl: Exactly!]] You say of the ÖVP “exactly”!, but one thing I would like to ask you already: Why do you think of the word “spiritual ” by protesting students who stand for nothing else except that they have a right to education? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eßl.]] But you already know what's hostageish – don't you? That's when you put the gun to sleep and you say: Either I reach my goal or...! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is hostage in the truest sense of the word! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] I wonder why the Minister of Finance never spoke of hostages when it came to making billions available for the bank package. Why does he speak of it in the interests of young people? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another quote by Minister of Finance Pröll: “It can’t always be about where more money can be obtained today, but how we can get the best out for Austria with the existing money.” – Quotes. Why is this only true for universities, but not for many other areas? Why is the vice-channer traveling all over Eastern Europe, all the capitals of Eastern Europe and lobbying for raiffeisen and for the banks? [[Abg. Wheelers: You have no idea!]] Why didn't he go to Berlin once to find, for example, a bilateral financial compensation solution for student flows? Why not? You can give an answer! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] From my point of view, disrespect reaches an absolute high point of view if you are looking for the “superpractice” with large ads in all Austrian newspapers, which is allowed to travel with the Vice-Chancellor to the VIP Night Slalom for a week and read the newspapers to him in the early days, of course without payment. – Such a person has never experienced in his life the real situation of the “practice” generation, that is, many people who, after studying for months, do not find a job and have no outcome! However, at the budget – and perhaps you, Mr Bundeskanzler, can give an answer as well – everyone clings to a shame they, I think, have learned from Karl-Heinz Grasser, namely that they are tricking and deceiving at the budget for universities. They adhere to a number and claim: 17 percent Plus to the budget! But they don't say what's actually hiding behind it. That is why I would like to explain this by an example. There's no plus in the university budget! Then: If a financial pot with its funding is transferred from a ministry to the science department, then that's not a plus! If workers' protection regulations, because the situation is already so disastrous, must finally be respected and construction activity must be preferred in order to be able to meet the legal requirements at all, then this is not a plus to the budget of universities! And if one does not take the exact number of students/students, but simply takes a fixed amount for the withdrawal of the tuition fees and the rest of the universities themselves have to catch up with the universities, then that is no plus for the universities! – This is nothing but tricking and perceiving and deceiving, that has nothing to do with a real commitment to the universities! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We of the Greens want a real solution! We don't want this special meeting just going by and then it's Business as usual. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, can no longer refuse this problem. We need a solution for the Austrian universities – and thus for a whole generation, which is now already entitled “Generation Crisis”. This must not happen, and that is why we cordially invite you to take these requests seriously at last and also to decide on them. I personally find it extremely unfortunate that it had to happen in such a way that young people who stand up for something – that is to show respect for all of us – that young people who want to study are perceived as harassment, as disorder, as too much, in the sense: We don't want them, all this is just a problem! This is a completely wrong access! Young people who seek education are not a problem, but they are really our future – especially in times of an economic crisis, wherever one needs creativity! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We demand from the generation that will have the rowing in ten, fifteen years of economic, political, scientific, we demand from these people that they not only have a training and find a job, but we need it for the whole system, which is now in crisis in many areas, whether it concerns the financial market, whether it concerns the energy sector or the climate. We need new rules for the whole system, and that's why these people need more than just training. They also need the ability to think critically and reflectively. To learn this, we should give them a chance. The universities of the future are exactly the place where you can do this! It is not only important to train to make money at some point in time, but it is also important to develop critical and reflection-conscious thinking that our society needs as urgently as no other before. This means to be fair – and not to build artificial barriers. So, give yourself a back! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, you have a number of questions to answer today. You have so far shown orientationlessness in those you have observed. We of the Greens want an emergency budget for the universities – even this year! We want the long-term security of universities by a decision you have all made! And we want a Minister of Finance, who is quite “industry”, who takes another country as an example by developing a solution for Austrian and international students in Austria in Brussels and Berlin. This would be a constructive conclusion to this meeting. They are called not to polemise today, but in respect for all the people who have broken this protest from the fence to put solutions on the table.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e2840	Mr Faymann spoke on the submission of an opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e2862	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There is much agreement on the fundamental importance of education, of universities in our country, with what you, Mrs. Club Chairman Glavischnig-Piesczek, have said. I also feel that, as you have said, there is an urgent need to remedy abuses in individual fields at universities, that free access – that is, not without regulations and rules, but free access without social barriers, without financial barriers – must be promoted for people who want to study in our country, because all figures show that the number of graduates is lower than the OECD average that the academic rate is significantly lower, access to higher education depends to a very high degree on the education of parents, the conditions in some fields of study are unacceptable. However, it is also worth mentioning that the average study period is above average: in Austria 5.6 years, OECD 4.5. Now, in one case or another, this may be because there are no laboratory sites or not enough good conditions, but there are certainly other reasons for this. The aim is to ensure that the academic rate increases, that there are more students, that there are better terms of study and that we are the best universities and universities in the international community. To build, reach, jointly design and ultimately finance. That's what we want and have to do. The Minister of Education likes to quote Henry Ford with the sentence: The future of a country is decided in the classrooms. – This certainly applies also to the hearing rooms, which applies to a comprehensive education concept, which is very early in childcare, but which cannot be used by many in our country, because there are too few childcare facilities throughout the world, because in some federal states there are free kindergartens, but in many areas of our country there are not enough places to promote the skills of young people in about the third, fourth or fifth years of life. The same applies to school forms throughout the day: There are too few school forms in our country all day long, although many people – without compulsion, without the old discussion, wanting to force someone who does not want to do so, because many people cannot benefit from this offer because it does not exist – would like to benefit from this offer. The same applies to our universities: Here too, there is an urgent need for regulations, for additional resources and for better funding. But I am also very proud to be able to say – and I know that this alone is not a solution – that more than a year ago a majority has formed in this House for the abolition of study fees, because I am convinced that financial barriers, Mr President, are not the right answer. [[Call to the ÖVP: It was also a fool!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To build financial barriers to divide those who can afford it, and those who cannot afford it, is your policy, and that will always be different from me. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I am very happy about this decision today and I can also live with the point you have said: Promises are to be fulfilled. [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of ÖVP) But are you already in a coalition with them?- Oh, my God!]] The Minister of Science has now given a very clear and very frequent opinion on whether he has more or less budget: Is it now 16 percent more or more? – It can be done, and this will be done by the Minister of Science, of course, on the individual points of a budget, and in individual cases there is also a lot of information to be provided, but a document which he has just shown to me again, but which I already know, shows very precisely that we have increased the funds, and that, I would like to mention that, not only through budget shifts, through which the same money in another budget area gets a new mesh, because in fact it should also occur in the public presentation some times, that the same amount is put on a new mesh and believes it has become more. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, exactly!]] No, I am talking about real increase: an increase where the increase in the status quo can only be demonstrated from 2008 onwards. In 2001, according to GDP, there was a percentage of 1.05 percent for the university budget, with 1.08 percent in 2006, i.e. a large stagnation. The increase has only begun from 2008 by – that is not the same thing as the jump that would have been necessary, but I ask that in economically more difficult times there is also an understanding that we do not have the possibilities of the revenue side as we would have liked it all most and immediately – an increase of at least 1.3 percent has taken place. This is more than €300 million this year, and next year, €300 million will be added, i.e. €600 million more than 2008. The budget path from 2011 to 2020 – this is this target that has been raised several times – is intended to reach 2% of GDP. This is a common task of the government, and this includes a Finance Minister as well as a Federal Chancellor as – of course! – a minister of science who has to meet these objectives, meet these promises and then take the appropriate measures. I know that this achievement is not going to be easy, and some cynics say that if economic growth does not rise again and GDP is falling, that will not be so difficult with the 2%. – This is research and education vis-à-vis cynical! It can only be a matter of ensuring in our country that growth becomes stronger again – Europe-wide; international, but above all in Europe. Economic growth is a prerequisite for us to be able to respect these promises that we have given, which we need in order to eliminate misunderstandings, even at universities that we need to eliminate misunderstandings in many areas of our education system and to improve the opportunities of young people, and the given word. This also requires, of course, that we are able, with the help of our economic measures in the country, but also in Europe, to ensure that the economic crisis will be overcome quickly, growth will start again and be part of our policy, because only with growth can social expenditure in the area of unemployment money be reduced and automatic expenditure factors be increased and revenue increased. This revenue and the reduction of social expenditure, which we are using in the defensive, are necessary in order to be reintroduced into a situation in the next budgetary negotiations, which makes it possible to conduct the university dialogue we have promised, including all those concerned, but also to implement the higher education plan which we promised in the government programme and that of the Minister of Science – and I say, not without us, but together with us and with our support – and finally to realize it. However, it is necessary that we also create the conditions for this from the economic framework in our country. We must not, therefore, take account of the fact that, in the economic crisis, we are combating economic programmes and, on the other hand, we are making necessary educational investments and important concerns in key areas of our country. On the contrary: We need this economic success, this growth, this additional commitment, this increase in performance, which is why we are particularly investing in the key factors of research and education. So I assume: We keep our word. We improve the situation at the universities by taking part in the government as a team – the minister of science leads us to the talks at the university dialogue – in order to realize what we have promised not to deny or to get under the carpet, but to eliminate it, because in the end we cannot repeat enough: The future of our country is decided in classrooms and audiences.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e3008	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Grünewald. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e3035	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! High house! Estimated and desired students! Ladies and gentlemen at the universities and colleges! Let me start atypically. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, for some people in Parliament, it would be one of their most beautiful days to be allowed to make a request for distrust; in principle I am not this type, but I can also explain to you why I make this request – and this statement will be less pleasing to you. If you have lived, worked, researched, published for many years at universities, if you have been able to represent 1,000 university teachers for years, if you have been allowed to participate in university laws, study laws, in commissions of the then Vice-Cancellor Busek, if you have been a member of the FWF's board of trusts for years, you will experience the politics that directly imposes on you this mistrust request. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] The experience is that I place that about life at the university, the university members, the students, about the importance of the university and its interaction with society in too many parts of the Federal Government, perhaps or probably also with too many persons of the ministry, there is something like a black hole. I have the suspicion – unfortunately! – that very little is known about it, that there is a lot of ignorance about what it means to research, teach, study in what environment teaching and research can develop, what perspectives and what climate research, teaching and education need. - That's not a good sign! I had the feeling that many choices have been misplaced and many opportunities have been played, and the result of this painful experience is a mistrust request, which is especially easier for one to see, like from the government side, such as from the party side, from minister side, word messages from various experts – from rectors, from students, from OECD, from really interested people who are alive with both feet – are turned under the table, such as critics or people who have suggestions, are immediately put somewhere in the corner of the concreteors, the illustrious or antimodernists, and the first association that follows on student movements – which can only be desired – is one with beer cans. – That’s infam, that’s wrong and unworthy. That's not true! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have or we have too long – and I am already using a few hard words – here I have to take part in the flag on world class and century laws – or as you would say. It was touching, naïve, blue-eyed or whatever, but it was at least pre-played offensive. What I am now experiencing is a purely passive, defensive education policy, where possessions are defended, where budgets are beautified, fooled or even denied. I just came to speak briefly on the 17 percent: Of course, you can always choose the worst budget year and get an increase. The fact that these 17 percent are calculated for three years is that they have to be divided by three and then barely 6 percent stay at a budget path of 2% of GDP, which is not said. I can also go here and perhaps convert crowns and thalers into euro and say: Yes, I'm the best minister! Since Maria-Theresia, the university budget has risen by a thousand times! – Great, but not coherent, not scientific. These are tricks that people don't like anymore! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] But if students are taught among these “world class” parallels that they are not desirable at the university, yes, feared because then the chaos, because then God knows which disasters break out, then this is an optic that does not give a good picture to students, their parents and relatives, but also to the entire education system – not a good picture! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time as the “world class” words, many young scientists left Austria for abroad because they found better, better-doped, safer and less hierarchical working conditions there than in Austria. – Many don’t come back anymore! That's not what I'm saying, it's not the evil opposition, that's what everyone who understands something about it. That's going to be ignored. At the same time, one buys expensive legionaries, puts them on the meadow after Gugging, and believes that Nobel laureates would fall like manna from heaven. – This is not a research policy! That's not one! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] Then a science spokesperson of a government party claims that the opposition would have passed from higher education policy. – What university policy do I ask you about? Of one that catapults us in OECD data on graduation rates of a year to 30 out of 36 states? Then, in a study, students are mentioned, and the ministry is making a great press conference, in which it is said that the number of students in Austria is developing in the European section. – If you look at the graphic, you see, there are three nations that go round the zero line from 1996 to 2006, including Austria. – These are studies that are grotesque, which are scientifically unsustainable, but one famous with such numbers! There has been a reflection of care conditions, with not even so many scientific staff employed at the university. – All this is grotesque! And now to the students: They have long been the only and first to ask questions of principle, who have put their fingers on a wound and have become uncomfortable. We need these uncomfortable students: They show Courage, passion, empathy and commitment! – A fraction of it in the ministry, a fraction of it with the Minister, would have served us and it would have gone on more. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] We call for the discharge of those parliamentary decisions taken a year ago. When this comes, we also ask for something that deserves the name Dialogue, and not a monologue to which it is once invited. We need a continuous dialogue, sort of a Jour fix with those concerned, with the knowledgeable and experts and with politics. Here we were always ready to work together – not against universities, not against people, but for a better study, for better research, for better universities and thus for a better state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e3201	I note that the motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e3554	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e3575	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there can be different opinions about the way in which this protest movement takes place at the universities, but with the attitude of the Emperor Ferdinand I, as 160 years ago, one cannot address the question when the farmers, the workers and the students were on the streets: May this be at all?, but one must already see that this is just one of the most modern protest movements from the communications technology used. Of course, this protest movement also has a real substance and a real reason. When you know that there was a stagnation in the facilities of universities from 2000 to 2006 – in all newspaper articles it was said: Research and teaching and teaching at universities are underfinanced – then you also know that this is, of course, the logical consequence. And if there has been a de-democracy in the universities in the years 2000 to 2006, it is clear that there is a movement that then develops parallel to that. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: And what is 2009?]] The students and the academic middle construction were pushed back. It was a way back to Ordinaria University, and it abolished the direct election to the Austrian high school. Then you don't need to wonder when it says in the comments: Why is the ÖH next to this movement and not the carrier of this movement? – Completely clear: If I weaken them in such a way that at the end they somehow put their representations together in a modular system, then you don't need to wonder when it comes to this movement. [[Abg. Wheelers:... abolished!]] I think that if we are interested in a state such as Austria, with a democratic culture, in the fact that this democratic culture is developing, then we simply have to accept that there is this movement. – You don’t have to share all the demands, you don’t have to share all the methods, but you have to note that there is something to be corrected here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why the government has also recognized this in the form that it has said that more money has to be made available. ==References== September, a year ago, there were decisions in this House, as well as among others... – There are also democratic decisions where you are not involved, and these decisions are nevertheless democratic, I just want to say to you! [[Abg. Raedler: We're on it!]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and applause at the SPÖ.]] There have been decisions here, including two percent of GDP in this area. We do not need to decide this again today – it is a decision! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: But nothing happened!]] The Federal Chancellor has also now said that this is the target orientation for funding, and that is what we want to do if we want to ensure that in the future we have the universities that can really fulfil their mission. ==References====External links== A good decision was made at the time, just like all other decisions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, as well as detonatative congratulation and bravado by representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yes, yes! I'll tell you: It was also a good decision that at the time, on the initiative of colleagues Broukal, Graf, Grünewald, the study fees were abolished here. We have long sought this because we felt that this is a social barrier that has been eliminated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck: And now you regret it!]] When you see that 42 percent of students work during the semester and that another 18 percent work on a case-by-case basis, and if you see that another 25 percent have to work during the semester holiday, you know that this is the social situation in which many students are located. But if you do not want a social barrier, you must not set up these barriers here! It must be seen that, if, by the way, so much work is done when the students have to meet jobs by the way – and in times of crisis, it is even more difficult to find jobs than usual – that we also stay there to say: Study fees will not be introduced in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All those who then come with the argument “Bumble Student” were told: We have laid down performance criteria when we decided to do so. It's not like that! When a person bends, he “burns” study fees to make this clear at once. One thing I don't quite understand right now: What about the €5,000 for German students? Is that the fear of a German wave from a corner that surprises me very much about this? I used to have the impression that your hope point is the new German wave. I believe that of course you need to talk to the Germans. And it is also clear that we cannot solve the educational abuses of the German universities in Austria. It must be noted in all clarity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Grosz.]] Now I've looked at the campaign carefully: The uniforms are flooded. Today I read in a daily newspaper, very small printed, suddenly, it is only 252,000 who study. Where are the 300 000 that have been announced? What kind of fright is there in the background, against which is it oriented? – I read this in the press. It was a very interesting article, and under is small-printed: The post-scripting period is still coming, but it is only 252,000. I am happy about every student and every student who is studying. I am one of those who say that the academic rate in Austria is too low, it belongs to increased! And that is why we must do everything we can to make it higher in order to be competitive here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another thing: I believe that this discussion, which exists on the Bologna process and on the question of education/training, is also a legitimate one. I am not in favour of the production of flowband academics, but rather of people who, when they have graduated from the university, realize that they also have an important role to play in a democratic community, that they not only want to be trained here, but also that there is something like education. That's crucial! This is, please – and that is where the conservatives should agree with me immediately – a humanist principle. I was in a humanistic gymnasium, in the Piaristengymnasium, and there it was a very important principle. And honestly, I'm in favour of it, but not because I was there, but because I feel it right. And this idea should be an essential point not only in the gymnasiums and in all schools, but of course also at universities, so that progress towards further democratisation and democratic culture is achieved in our society. These are the principles, and these are the points and the embassies: more money for universities to see critically the training trends, to see critically the economic trends, to see that it is not a question of producing flowband academics who can best sell their labour – I say now in this hardness – but rather that more educated democratic people can leave universities after their studies, but of course be accommodated on the international labour markets. We respect, if there is a democratic movement, this movement, too, and we have to enter a dialogue with those concerned, we have to listen to it, and we should finally let it go into our policy. If mistakes have been made – and I have listed them – from 2000 to 2006, then they are now to be corrected because this movement has put its fingers on this wound. We have this up and down! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[12:48]] [[12:48:11]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e3748	I have to make the following statement: Deputies Mag. Stadler, Dr. Graf, Dr. Pilz, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigative committee to examine the Causa ‘Kazakhstan’ and the Causa ‘MobilTel’. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the urgent request. Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Karl. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e3783	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen, At the request of the Greens, it is said, among other things, that measures should be taken to increase the quality of teaching and research and to minimise long study periods and drop-outs. I'll give you all right, that's an important goal! However, it must also be mentioned that there are already measures to meet this objective. Consider, for example, the study of human medicine! There are recording tests there, and they have led to the drop-out quota being only 4.8 percent. In the 1990s, it was still around 50 percent. Students will be able to complete their studies even faster, the first course of study will be completed by most students in minimum time, and of course the study conditions will also be better, because more manageable and planable numbers of students will also bring a better care relationship. Better care, of course, means a More quality for the students and also for the teachers. This is particularly important to us, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Better study conditions, in the sense of no overcrowded audiences, no waiting lists and teaching in a quality that you can expect at a university, but you will find not only at medical universities, but also at technical universities or at art universities. Here too there are access schemes. And to the colleges, it is still mentioned that there are also tuition fees in addition to access schemes at very many colleges. And yet there we have a much better social mix than at universities. However, there is also another measure that has succeeded in raising the quality you have referred to and reducing the amount of study time and drop-outs to a minimum: These are the tuition fees already mentioned on many occasions. Because of the study fees, the average study period has been reduced from 14 semesters to just under 12 semesters. The number of students with non-examination status has been greatly reduced, from over 40 percent to about 15 percent. And there were also more beginners and beginners and also more graduates. This is particularly important here because it is an important goal of ours. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ==References====External links== September 2008 mentions only as a black day for the Austrian universities, because on this day the SPÖ, the FPÖ and the Greens in a truly unprecedented Husch-Puff action have decided to abolish the study fees – despite truly urgent warnings from the rectors, professors and also from the ÖH. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Because you have not increased the resources!]] [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the SPÖ:A decision of Parliament, please!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I could now quote many of these warnings here, but I would just like to limit myself to one. I am now allowed from the e-mail of Rektor Däderle, the rector of the University of Innsbruck, to the Tyrolean representatives and the Tyrolean state government of the 18th century. Cite September 2009. He warns against the fact that the combination of the admission of tuition fees with the abolition of access restrictions in all subjects is fatal. And he goes on to say: In the end, students receive a mediocre training, which they qualify for nothing more competitive. In the international rankings, universities fall to a level no longer to be taken seriously. - Quote. Despite such warnings, you will have the tuition fees on 24. September 2008 abolished and also loosened access restrictions. Against better knowledge, you have decided! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: These are not the reasons for the miscarriage!]] ==References== In September, the universities did not have more budgets at their disposal. Of course it cannot be said that they will be replaced by the €150 million in tuition fees, but these 150 million could be added to the universities today – and not as a mere substitute for the withdrawal of tuition fees! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Then, of course, there's another one: It is not just about the financial consequences. It is also about the fact that this great new system of tuition fees – which has not been completely abolished – has caused the universities to be overburdened with a huge red tape. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Is not true at all!]] Yes, of course! Mr. Klubobmann Cap mentioned earlier that “busy students” still “burn” study fees. Bumble students “burn” study fees, you said. – I would rather say “bumble students” instead of long-term students, but I like to pick up your Jargon. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] “Bumble students” “burn” study fees – but this is limited, Mr. Klubobmann. The universities must examine whether the “bumble student” was ill for a long time, was pregnant, was present or civil servants. All this has to be checked by the universities! The universities have other things to do than check whether their students were sick or pregnant. I wish they could use the resources for other things! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to remind you of the following: The “Bumble Student”, who earned more than €4,886 in 2008, did not have to pay a study fee; the student who earned under €4,886 was very likely to pay study fees. – Is social meeting security à la SPÖ? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So, under a socially sound scheme, I would have imagined something else. Those who earn well don't pay, and those who earn badly, who can pay?- Oh, my God! I am now at another point in social security. It is always said that tuition fees kept socially weak from studying. Here you have to see, ladies and gentlemen, that even those students who are unable to afford the tuition fees receive them recovered by means of the funding of studies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can quote Claus Raidl here. Claus Raidl said: I don't want the children of my böhler worker to pay for my son's studies. – That is what is going on, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Say something to the universities!]] Only those students who can afford the tuition fee were de facto exempt from the study fee. Those who cannot afford it have not yet paid for it because they were recovered through the funding of studies. This too is a “great” act of social confidence, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are therefore committed to reintroducing moderate study contributions, which are expected to involve an increase of approximately €150 million in funding, so that those who are unable to afford the study or the study fees will receive, on the one hand, the tuition fees, but also a higher scholarship. Finally, Mr Klubobmann Cap, I would like to remind you of a contribution by former Minister of Science Broukal in the “profile” of September 2008 – please apologize: [[Call the SPÖ: He wasn't a minister!]] Scientist spokesperson; thank you for the suggestion that there was no Freud's promise! – to a contribution by the former scientist Broukal, whom you have praised for abolishing the tuition fees. On the question of ‘profile’: Why did you defend the abolition of tuition fees?, says Mr Broukal: It was party line. I once tried to discuss this internally: higher scholarships, free loans, better terms of study – impossible! You'll be right there. [[Abg. Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek: Madam President, the speaking time is over!]] In doing so, I think many students say they prefer to pay 360 € per semester if they certainly get a seminar place for it. Politics is becoming more and more fundamental, the 2008 election campaign will be held in a short space of breath: Farmers, families, pensioners, students, everyone gets a gift of election soon. I cannot see a long-term perspective. - Quote. So your then science spokesman, Broukal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e3990	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4011	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! There is no doubt that this is a collective failure of those responsible in the Federal Government and, in part, of the budget legislator, as well as of parts of management at universities and much more. In fact, we need a national act of strength to put in place educational priorities and to implement the things that are essential for Austria. What is it really about? In reality, it is a question of enabling every Austrian and every Austrian who brings the conditions and is also willing to study to a study place in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And with your policy of locking up, blocking away is not possible! To a few numbers. – We had a total of 18,026 students at medical universities in 2004. Today, in 2009, we have 14 073 students. At medical universities there were still 3 092 first-class scribblers in 2004, Austrians and Austrians, today it is half: 1 800. Then who really hurts an access limit? – The Austrians! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And with that, we really take opportunities for our youth. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the government should also plan and anticipate. There are more students today; and we are now talking about ordinary listeners and not extraordinary listeners, there is always a lot to be tricked around in the statistics. In 2000 we were enrolled at Austrian universities 227 948 students. In 2009, the status of ordinary listeners is 244,006. This is an increase of 17 000 students in nine years. I would ask you to take note of this: in nine years' time! That's not even 1,500 to 1,600 students per year. If one does not make a policy in the sense that we can do this, then I have to say, in fact, the adoption of an educational policy is bad. And if you say we have too many students, I have to assume that's wrong, because we need students. We have had a higher birth rate in recent years, with 14 percent more births than in the 1980s. A forward-looking policy of management on the one hand, but also by the government on the other hand, can only mean that the facts are also taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4083	For business treatment, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4105	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! I would like to speak about business treatment. I request that the sitting be suspended and that a special presidial be held. I also request that the National Council decide to hold a debate on this. I should now like to explain why I am making these requests. It has become known to us that the members of the government parties are planning to end the U-committee on top-level cowardry slowly without loading the ministers. Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee of Inquiry does not have the task of in no way having the task of clarifying the legal components. That's what the ordinary courts do – no question. The Committee of Inquiry, however, has a very important role to play in clarifying the political component. We have also been elected here in this House to carry out this task. However, it is almost impossible to look at this political component if it is not possible to invite the politically responsible members of the Federal Government. It would therefore be a great damage to the reputation of this House if it were not possible to hear the ministers responsible in the Committee. That is why the opposition parties have taken action against this emergency force and have invited these special meetings of the National Council. [[Abg. Großruck: This is a debate contribution, not a report on the Rules of Procedure!]] In connection with these special meetings, ladies and gentlemen, we now have the situation that it is not possible between 1 p.m. and 1 p.m. and 1 p.m. to broadcast the sitting on television. We had a debate at the President-in-Office's sitting before. There was no agreement at the time, which is why the President decided to open a special meeting at 8 a.m. and start at 11 a.m., then open at 9 a.m. and start at 12 p.m. That's what happened today. The next time will be opened at 10 a.m. and the meeting will actually continue at 1 p.m. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The President has no line!]] This means, ladies and gentlemen, that it is of course unpleasant for those who walk to the speaker's desk at 1 p.m. because he does not have the opportunity to speak in television time. [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: This will stop the Republic!]] That was also a problem before. Dr. Cap – I think it was at the last meeting – experienced that he went to the speaker's desk and the session was interrupted. It is therefore necessary, ladies and gentlemen, that we find a solution together so that there are equal opportunities and conditions for all speakers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why do I say this, ladies and gentlemen? – It is easy to expect that whenever the meetings are not interrupted, there will be speech messages for business management at around 1 p.m. I therefore believe that we should be very reasonable and should make every effort to find a common solution, a good way.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4192	Mr President, before I call on the next speech on business management, from my side: They have submitted applications for business treatment which cannot be filed. There is neither the right to hold a presidential, nor the right to request a session interruption. You know, at the end of the day, you have also explained why your word was made. At this point, I would like to draw attention to: I would not rather than find – as before – the way to prepare for consensus meetings. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You ended that in the Investigation Committee!]] If meetings in consensus are not possible, if there are political groups again and again, no matter which side blocks consensus, I have to take decisions. And I made my decisions in such a way that I thought I was right to give everyone one time and thus wronging others. That's the worst thing we can do here, but the only way I've seen. I support Mr Hofer's appeal: When planning the meetings, let us return to the consensus of all five political groups. That's also an appeal from my side. [[He also welcomed SPÖ and FPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] The next item on business is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4232	Madam President. High house! You have decided a few minutes ago that an application for the setting up of an investigation committee concerning the examination of the Causa Kazakhstan and the Causa MobilTel – meaning the MobilTel Bulgaria – have been introduced. We now have a special situation. This request will be dealt with, but the debate will take place following the debate on the urgent request. However, until then, we have to solve a fundamental constitutional problem which has already arisen for the last time, but which has not been clarified, namely the constitutional problem that the Spittel Investigation Committee is to be strangled off today – announced by the ÖVP. As of today, this investigation committee will be strangled with the support of the socialist monitoring party. He's supposed to be strangled. This means that a committee of inquiry, set up unanimously by this House, is strangled by a minority – in this case by the ÖVP, accompanied by the SPÖ – in the Committee. This is a constitutional problem that simply goes into the Groteske. And this question would be urgent before the debate on the new committee of inquiry, especially because there is also the willingness of the Federal Minister Bandion-Ortner to appear in the Committee of Inquiry, but it prevents the ÖVP from appearing because there is the public announcement of the former Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan – to read in several media – to want to appear in the Committee of Inquiry to say it, but it is the Austrian People's Party that it is deeply inside a party financing summit, preventing Mr Alijev from appearing before this committee. [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have the problem that we want to load an ex-minister who is responsible for the entire system we have examined in the area of the interior resort, but the Austrian People's Party prevents it from being loaded! High house! This is a constitutional problem, which has been taken into account in the context of the unanimous establishment of this Committee of Inquiry and the unanimous mandate of all political groups, including the opposition groups. And now it turns out to be a party that has no interest in education, no interest in democratic control. This is an attack on the parliamentary control rights that have never taken place in the form, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, this must be discussed in advance in a presidential conference in order to be able to lead the debate on our request on a corresponding constitutional basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4302	Mr Stadler, I have heard your speech on business treatment, which you have interpreted as far as possible. A meeting of the President-in-Office will be held tomorrow. I assume that your clubman will bring this issue to the presidency tomorrow. There is also the right place to discuss it further. Mr Pilz has also referred to business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4326	Madam President. I would like to point out in every way that the Austrian People's Party's Party's action with the help of the SPÖ Group has today been broken in the Committee of Inquiry of § 42 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure. I will also explain to you why, and seek to ensure that the illegal conduct of the Austrian People's Party in the Investigation Committee cannot continue. [[Abg. Grosz: Again!]] [[Call at the SPÖ:... universities!]] I am in favour of this as follows: Mr Cap – I think he can still remember – is the head, booker and I, myself, have put in the National Council's plenary the request to set up a committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Großruck:... Applications have been filed against you!]] This Committee of Inquiry has, as is known, been unanimously decided. Point 3 of this unanimously adopted decision of the National Council states: “Acquainting the security authorities with the attempts to influence foreign intelligence services in the XXIII. and XXIV. GP have active and former members of the National Council’. There has then been a unanimous decision by Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr Graf, Mr Stadler and Mr Pilz in the Committee of Inquiry, which, under point 2.3, held the following literally and thus decided: “Acquaintment as to whether and, where appropriate, which Members to the National Council or to the Federal Council in the XXIII. or XXIV. The legislative period in documents of the Federal Ministry of Defence or of the Army Defense Office or of any other other body responsible for the intelligence or control of the services of the Federal Ministry of Defence (and sport), was mentioned by these bodies, were affected by the collection or storage of personal data at those bodies, or were given secret information from those bodies or individual staff outside the parliamentary committees provided for, which led to the pre-history and circumstances of compliance with the legal and constitutional requirements, as was further done with the relevant data, the importance of which they were also given, whether the rights of the representatives concerned were violated, and the consequences of the Federal Ministry of National Defence (and Sport) were drawn from such incidents.’ Madam President, on this decision today, there is a decision which opposes the diametric in which it is decided to strangle the Committee and no information person may be translated to this point: [[Abg. Gahr:... read... mushroom!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's already decided!]] Suspicion of Eurofighter opponents is suspected of being loaded by the Military Defense Office. This isn't just about the Minister of Defence Mag. Darabos! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] No information may be loaded on a decided subject of evidence. According to the Austrian People's Party dictatorship, the Examining Committee may no longer fulfil its tasks, which the National Council's plenary decided to act unanimously with the Committee itself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] That is the first part of this decision, but it will be much more harmed, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4426	Ladies and gentlemen, I would nevertheless ask that you do not overstep the word on business treatment and also look at the time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4456	Madam President, I did not create the problem. The Austrian People's Party is straining this National Council by about half... [[Congratulation with Greens, BZÖ and FPÖ.]] By decision, the Austrian People's Party intends to eliminate about half of the proposed subject matter. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can't like that!]] The Austrian People's Party agrees to set up an investigation committee without giving it the opportunity to complete, let alone close, the mandate given by the National Council Assembly unanimously. The whole second point I wanted to read to you, which is much longer – and I call on you, Madam President, not only to follow it closely in the presidential and to prevent the EIA from doing so in the National Council and the Investigation Committee – concerns the so-called Kazakhstan affair. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Grosz.]] Mr Alijev must not be loaded, the former MP Gaál must not be loaded, the former Minister Blecha must not be loaded, the ex-journalist Ender must not be loaded, the employed and now judicial police officers who have passed on the data of the Ministry of the Interior must not be questioned. Not even the honourable Member, Mr Vilimsky, who insisted on being consulted in the committee of inquiry, can be questioned! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Incredible!]] No-one may be asked about the Kazakhstan affair except the Director of the Constitutional Protection and an official subordinated to him. Madam President, this is an emergency situation in this House. [[Congratulation with Greens, BZÖ and FPÖ.]] I come to the conclusion and understand your argument with the time, but we must take the time from time to time in an emergency situation, the control rights of the National Council against the abuse of power of the Austrian People's Party and, in particular, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll to defend – what we're trying to do here. I appeal to you, Madam President: Prevent the planned breach of the Austrian People's Party law and protect the Austrian National Council from the abuse of power by the Austrian People's Party and – in its tow – the Social Democratic Group of this House! – Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4534	Mr President, I do not think I have to explain in particular at this point – because I am convinced that you know the Rules of Procedure – that the President can do much, but not everything in this House, and that decisions, even in committees, are not to be revised by the President – I am just making it clear. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you like that? I'm just asking!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He asked you something!]] Of course I was asked by Mr Pilz. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: After all! Then say something about the content of Parliament being turned off!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I just said that you obviously didn't listen to me. Member of the European Parliament Amon has made a statement on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4612	Madam President. In particular, what the colleague Pilz said here: Unfortunately, as so often, it is not in line with the facts. The Committee has not decided to end in any way today. [[Call the BZÖ:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] This is an account of how the honourable Member intends to have Pilz. [[Abg. Booker: Ah yes!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] It is true that the Committee is responsible for both the 24th and the 24th years. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== It has decided on the matter of Mr Oellinger and the possible influence of a criminal official. [[Owl at BZÖ]] [[Abg. Oils:... not loaded! Don't trust me! Download me again!]] There are two committee dates to examine the matter which concerns Parliament very directly, namely the influence of foreign intelligence services on Parliament. We have decided on a large number of charges here. It is a smooth untruth that has been given by Mr Pilz. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Pendl.]] [[Abg. Brosz:... yes or no?- Oh, my God!]] At the end of today's plenary session, Madam President, it is worth mentioning that your decision is, of course, to be respected, but I should like to point out that our clubman proposed to begin the sitting at 10 a.m., to interrupt it at 1 p.m. and to continue at 1 p.m. – that is, to raise accusations, goes smoothly into empty. Finally, I would like to say something on the subject of the Committee of Inquiry, because it seems that a number of misclaims are simple and simple in the room. I would ask Dr Pilz to look again at the All-Party Decision in all the details – after you have presented here such a long list of personalities that we should invite to the Causa Kazakhstan. I would like to say very clearly: The subject-matter of the investigation is the influence of foreign services on the Austrian Parliament. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Bucher.]] This is not the question of the rightful or unlawful residence of a citizen of another country. It is also not a question of whether or not there has been abduction attempts in the country – that is the case of the courts and the prosecutor's office. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Pendl.]] We have a political inquiry here, that is what it is all about. Stop using the investigation committee as a political stage!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4719	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4741	Madam President. It is a matter of course that we are, of course, on the part of my group, the Social Democrats, for the precise implementation of the subject-matter of the investigation, no more millimeters and no less. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Please say something about new democracy and new parliamentaryism!]] Only then, if this is really guaranteed and taken seriously, will this institution, which serves the control activities of Parliament, also encounter acceptance outside the House – and this is a very important concern for us, because we do not want the outcome of the work of the committee of inquiry to damage the establishment of the committee of inquiry. - On the one hand. The other is that I take the objections very, very seriously and therefore support it that we also discuss this in the presidential.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4826	I assume that this issue will continue to be discussed in the President-in-Office tomorrow. [[13:21:06]] Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e4855	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard once again how the SPÖ holds with the so-called democratic culture in our country: When it comes to gathering lazy students on the streets and knocking some slogans, democracy in our country is fine. [[Abg. May. Muttonen: “Faul students”?- Oh, my God!]] But when it comes to doing this here in the house, as a people's representative, inconsistency, and where there are maladministrations, whether in the field of justice or the police, then pour everything, then you become a provider of the ÖVP and then the democratic culture in our country is nothing more worth it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is about, ladies and gentlemen, that we also call on you, Mr Cap, to stand up for a decision and not always to be understanding and, at any opportunity, to insist that you can do something about it. In the last episode, they should also stand for a decision, because there are only two ways of making a decision, namely those that are made and those that are not made. And you should make the decision to inform in this country and here in this House so that we can continue the investigation committee. You don't negligently strangle him! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I also noticed a second point in this brief speech that you have made about the situation of universities, namely that you are talking about all of this, of course, between the period 2000 and 2006, which we are now in the process of getting out of the way. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, only to remember: You have been in the government since the beginning of 2007 and you have been the Federal Chancellor since 2007. You haven't done anything to fix this mess to this day. To this day, they have had three years to finally arrange this chaos at the universities and educational institutions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner:... too big to fix this in two years!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Of course, the chief of responsibility is head of government, Faymann, ladies and gentlemen. You were also the one who withdrew the Minister of Science. You are the one who now sends him to Brussels and takes him away from this construction site – the universities. You are now primarily responsible for the fact that this building site of the universities is finally being corrected, and we therefore call on you to take a clear position here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I and the entire BZÖ, we do not understand the demonstrators in the universities. We do not understand that many skilled students in our country are prevented from completing their studies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a circumstance that is objectionable and that needs to be corrected. We want the diligent students to be able to attend their lectures. Many work side by side and have to earn money to finance their studies – and now they are held by these left-left demonstrators, by these anarchists to finish their studies! [[Congratulation and bravorage at BZÖ.]] We must also be honest about whether there should be sanctions for such behaviour at universities – in order to block the fact that money is being spent there, that many costs are incurred, and that the principle of performance is abolished, ladies and gentlemen. That's why: Performance must be rewarded again in this country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I recall for the SPÖ what former Chancellor Kreisky once said: I'm not being blackmailed by a few lauzes! [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Muttons and Grosz.]] – I think you should finally turn to this principle once again. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the main problem is that you have been looking away for many years now, and since 2001, foreign students have constantly overpopulated our universities and, unfortunately, many Austrian students do not find a place anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's nonsense! “overcrowded”?- Oh, my God!]] We have a number of foreign students of over 120 percent, now there are 60 000 German students who use our Austrian universities as educational institutions. That is why it is about thinking, ladies and gentlemen, about how we can deal with this problem. We have invented a very good instrument, namely the bonus card with €5,000. This is the BZÖ model: Anyone who makes a matura or a study exam in Austria receives € 5 000. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Everybody?- Oh, my God!]] He has a bonus for the time he spends at the universities. In return, we introduce a 5 000 € subscription fee, which would also partially solve the financing problem. If you calculate this, you will see that this would add €300 million to 60 000 students – for the universities to finally eliminate the infrastructural and human deficits there, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is sometimes one of the problems that we really have to deal with. They are primarily responsible for the fact that we are currently in this mistake, through the abolition of the study fees, which means that we have 160 million € less available each year to enable students in our country to study at all. At that time, the Reds voted in favour of the abolition, as did the Greens and the Freedoms. Unfortunately, they have gone into the trap of this left hand policy in Austria. That means that you're also responsible for the fact that we've got to get rid of these miser and this chaos at the moment. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor, education and training are the foundation for prosperity, further development and social peace in our country. You are now on the train, act and make sure that this chaos will be over soon! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e5007	It has now informed Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Hahn of his speech. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time is also 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e5035	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Colleague! Mr President, I should like to thank Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Grosz: The Commissioner is speaking!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Drah' di nett um, the Commissioner goes about it!]] At first, it is important to me to note that someone who deals with universities, the tertiary sector, knows the challenges. I am conscious of challenges – and not problems. I assume that this is also known to scientific speakers. That Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig has gone away, I do not blame her very much, you can't follow everything and everyone, but, Dr. Grünewald, you should know that and you should also know that in August in Alpbach, I deliberately called the discussion about a future design of the Austrian university space. This is precisely what we are discussing. [[Abg. Ollinger: But no one heard that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Okay, but ten years too late!]] - Yes, do you make this a blame for me now? – The fact is: I recognized this and I took the initiative. We wanted to discuss and we will discuss. The advantage – I say this quite consciously – of the current debates, public opinions and also demonstrations is that the discussion about the future design of the tertiary sector – not only of universities – is now one of the thanks to God, in which much more people participate. [[Abg. Oellinger: You owe this to the student!]] Therefore, I also hope that we will get results faster, because we do not need so long to involve the students as well. These were always involved, they are and will be in the future too! [[Abg. Oils: Where do you want to go?]] This is quite logical, because it cannot and should not go without it, but it is important that we are aware of the different problems and that we understand that Austria is also involved in an international context. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: He already speaks like a European!]] Around us there are other instruments of access, financing and study opportunities – unlike in Austria. In international comparison, we have a very bizarre situation, namely that – with the exception of further areas of universities – virtually all the other sectors of the tertiary sector can choose their students and this leads to displacement effects. This leads to the fact that, for example, those who do not have the qualification tests for the teaching department at the educational universities – and many of us believe that this is a good institution – are now going to the universities and then to study the teaching office for the higher schools in general, because there are no access schemes or aptitude tests there. So I could provide you with a wealth of examples of where certain other areas of the tertiary sector have access schemes, but this is not the case at universities. This is why such displacement effects occur. You have to address these things, you have to discuss them. It has already been mentioned that 60 percent of the first students use and use only 10 percent of the study opportunities of 400 universities and universities in total. These things have to be addressed, too, that we have about some fields of study where there is a drop-out quota of up to 80 percent. – Why, why?, this is what it is to be discussed. Of course, we have many German students there and there disproportionately. But I'm telling you, in total, with the exception of some fewer subjects, that's not the central problem. Here, too, a clarification: We have 17 000 German students in Austria and about 6,000 Austrian students in Germany. Here, too, my appeal, ladies and gentlemen: On the whole, let us be glad – even that was an objective of Bologna architecture and philosophy – that we have mobility among students, not only in Europe, but worldwide! If we are glad that there is this mobility, we support it through scholarship programs! In times like this, it is extremely important for students to gain international experience. Therefore, let us not be overcrowded foxes trying to make counter-accounts here. In total, except for individual exceptions, as I agree with you, we have a balanced balance between incoming and outgoing students. So these are the things that need to be addressed and discussed. A short while ago, the budget debate: I stand by and am even proud that it was possible to increase the Unibudget by 17 percent in times like this. [[Abg. Oils: That's not enough!]] And we can't discuss much about whether that fits or not, that's all understandable. I or my officials are happy to provide repeated information on how this percentage is composed. The fact that the compensation for the study contributions of around 7 percent will then be added is budgetaryly effective and leads to public sector expenditure for universities to be 23 to 24 percent higher over the next three years. It is not only in Austria, but also internationally, in which policy area such increases are possible in times like these. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In such tense times as these, at the time agreed with Minister of Finance Molterer, the technical universities also receive 13.7 percent more, for the first time since the existence of these colleges – long wanted, now respected and implemented. So there's a lot going on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Grünewald, I have chosen the minutes of your debates on the budget debate this April. You have certainly praised the budget as a member of the opposition within the framework of your possibilities, which I am pleased to have. They have also made positive comments on my budget support measures for the FWF. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: He's got less than last year!]] You know exactly how things have come to be, that there has been very high approvals for trust in another budget path in the previous year. But Austria is one of the very few countries in Europe, which has also achieved a 25 percent increase in expenditure in research. There are countries, including in Europe, which unfortunately halve their research budgets of God. There is no significant increase in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Extra-university!]] We have also created an opportunity for the research community to continue its work in a stable way. One more thing: Dr. Grünewald, you always quote the OECD. Excuse me, but you have a selective perception, because you should read the entire OECD reports every year and then quote, anticipate. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Let's have a ten-year look back!]] I would say that if we were both ready to take note of OECD results, we would have to get very similar results. If you, Professor Van der Bellen, continue to praise foreign universities, rightfully, as I mean, starting from Harvard, you should also look at how these universities are financed and structured by the accesses, from the study contributions. I know that many green mandates are happy to send their children. We should be interested in joining them together. [[Call the Greens.]] – I can deliver in the bilateral discussion. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it was and is necessary to hold a dialogue – whether this “convention” or as always hot. I'll tell you next week, 25th. November will not be a meeting, a meeting, but that will be several, that will be many. I hope that all those involved, the students, the teachers, but also the social partners and all who are invited here will discuss matters with international and national experts, with seriousness and seriosity. The objective must be a maximum of broad national consensus. I am convinced that we will not be all over 100 percent of one opinion, but a large margin of agreement must be given. On the basis of these findings you can and must then restructure the process of higher education. And I tell you, my successor or my successor will take over this seasonwood with the same elan. There is nothing else left to him or her. Those who are interested in the optimal development of the tertiary sector in the future must work towards this passion, as I have done for the last three years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e5249	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. I'll set the clock up to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e5270	Madam President. After all, the fronts are getting a little clearer here. So the BZÖ sees a “left-left anarchism” in the students’ protest. These left-wing anarchists have, after all, managed to achieve something we, I think, have not managed in the form over the years, namely to draw the attention of the public in Austria to the malice of the education system, from kindergarten to schools to universities. For this, these students deserve full respect, I think, and not this contempt by the BZÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And the second thing comes from BZÖ: The universities are “overcrowded”, floods, foreign floods of the universities. – Mr Bucher, who is not here now, unfortunately! Minister Hahn pointed out in one point – I am pleased to be able to agree on one point – yes, it studies some 17 000 German students in Austria, but it also studies some 6,000 Austrian students in Germany. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's it!]] As measured by the population, many more Austrians study in Germany than Germans in Austria, and I say that's okay. We want international universities. We want an international audience with the students. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We also want internationality with the professors. Only in this way will we be able to survive in international competition. And the alarm bells have already started ringing. Mr. Hahn, you are aware that almost all the well-known international rankings of research and teaching from the universities of Austria have fallen back over the past few years. There are exceptions, but Austria generally falls back. And that's not a coincidence, it's also the budget – not only, but also! An increase in the budget is an absolutely necessary condition for improving the situation at universities, in research and teaching, not sufficient but necessary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Cap! Chancellor Faymann rightly pointed out that we have too few students in Austria and not too many. – Right, compared to all industrialized countries! We have too little transfer rates from the AHS to the universities. - Right, yes! We do too little to change the filter function of schools, because there is the actual entry barrier to the university system. And this is an economic challenge of first rank, not just an educational policy. Mr Minister, I read very carefully the OECD's economic reports on Austria, which, under its four chapters 2009, are devoted to one of education and training: “Re-inventing the Education System” in Austria, including schools. That's why I'm glad that Mrs. Schmied is sitting here. Just, Mr. Chancellor Faymann and Mr. Cap, what is now? Our request today is nothing but the confirmation of the request of 24. September 2008. Are you going with me or not? That's the first sample now, and that's fucking much more accurate than what you said before. This proposal says 200 million more this year, compared to last year. Next year 200 million more, that is 400, the year after 600, the year after, 800 million more, so that at the end of this legislative period we have a billion more for the university and technical education system in Austria. You're with me or not? Does the SPÖ still feel bound to it or not? This is once the first nail sample. The second is: Even if the SPÖ should go along, we'll see what's going on in the budget. The budget takes account of this decision of 24. ==References====External links== No, just take him into account and do not touch him! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we continue in this way, the poor conditions of study for the students, but also for the professors in Austria, do not change – for all, not only for the Austrians. And that's very dangerous what's going on here. Austria's universities are on the verge of losing their international reputation. At my faculty at the University of Vienna, people from over 60 nations are studying. Rector Badelt told me that more than 100 nations are studying at the University of Economics. This shows that we are still competitive – still! At the University of Oxford, 50 percent of the professors are foreigners, not the worst among us. We're still a province. It can only be put on if the universities are properly equipped, and they are not at present. This is not only what the students tell us, but also the professors, the assistants, the entire middle building, that's what everyone who knows about himself half-way at the university or makes the effort to take this physically into consideration. If only the plaster comes from the ceiling, it's the most harmless. Even in the fields of study which are not overcrowded – and there are, for example, economics, thanks to God – this does not mean that everything is okay there. It has not yet been said that all physicists, biologists and so on are the devices on the latest state of the art. This does not mean that there is a stand there, which can only be compared about with that of the British elite universities, let alone the East American. [[Abg. May. Molterer: How high are the study contributions there?]] Oh, my God, the study contributions, the 160 million euros. Mr Karl pretends that they are not compensated for in the budget. We are talking about billions here, Mr Molterer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: How high are they in the USA?]] The 2% of GDP we want to achieve in ten years means billions more for the university and technical education system. That's what I'm talking about. For this we must reduce expenditure and, if necessary, increase taxes, increase temporary taxes so that Austria does not fall back in these areas, in education and training, in research, otherwise we will pay the token. What you're doing about the ÖVP – at least today and in the last ten years, as long as the science unit is about in black – is quite different. They say yes, yes, it's already raining in at the roof, that's not to be denied, we have to put up ten more bubblings. - That's it. To repair the roof, we have to take billions into our hands. And for that I stand with all the consequences. As long as the Vienna transport companies write to me: You will be congratulated soon 65, and in the future you will be allowed to drive by half if you complete the following request!, as long as I can only say: Austria is wasting money. – I did not fill out the request by the way. We're drilling into every mountain that can't defend itself, a hole, whether the coral, burner or whatever's called, billions are lost there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You're pretending the money's on the street. But at the colleges, the schools, the kindergartens, it's always said it was better times. Maybe when the economy starts again, in the year snow. That's not how it is, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e5395	Now comes Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e5416	Ladies and gentlemen! The situation at the Austrian universities – which has already been pointed out by some of my previous speakers – has actually deteriorated significantly for students over the last ten years. Of course, this also has a story that I would like to refer to, because you forget so quickly, if you hear certain speeches here. It was in the time when the ÖVP was still ruling with you by the Freemans at that time, in which university budgets were not only increased but lowered, for example in 2003 alone at the University of Vienna, the investment budgets by 80 percent – by 80 percent! - have been shortened. And that was a policy of caputt saving, which you contributed significantly at the time, which now has a lasting effect. I think that's a special chuzpe when Klubobmann Bucher comes out here and says: But you have not managed to improve it in the short time you are in the government. But I can assure you that it is our goal to improve what you left behind, ladies and gentlemen, very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because of “wrong students. ” The situation of students at the university is really very tense. [[Abg. New builder: You are remarkably ignorant!]] The students are under great pressure. We have heard that most of the students have to work, the audiences are overcrowded, it depends on whether you press the button at the right time to enter a seminar. I understand the impatience of the students: It's about their chances of life, ladies and gentlemen. These are students who now want to speak, who want to continue their studies under appropriate conditions. What signals have these students heard from policy areas since the beginning of the winter semester? – There has been talk about alarming attacks on universities, about the need to return to study fees and access restrictions. I say a very clear no. These are the completely false signals to the young people in our country. From the onslaught to the universities. Yes, we need more students, ladies and gentlemen, and no fewer students! Have you ever asked yourself why we have more people at the universities now? Could that not be related to the fact that after the Matura, young people today do not have as good a chance to find a job as they might have been a few years ago? And are we not happy when these young people try to qualify themselves higher? So it's a hundred times better for me than if they're on the street. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The aim of the SPÖ is to improve student study conditions in this situation. The reintroduction of tuition fees is not an improvement in the situation of students. When it comes to certain forces saying that we want fewer students to repack the tuition fees as an instrument, this clearly shows what the tuition fees are, a social obstacle, to prevent young people from going to universities, to stop them from qualifying better. I'm sure we don't want to! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want to equip the universities better. Yes, it is very important that the Council of Ministers has decided on the budget target of 2% of gross domestic product by 2020. It is now necessary to implement this gradually and to make an appropriate implementation plan. The Minister of Finance is responsible for this, and I expect the Minister of Finance to do so. We also want to help young people make the right decision for themselves in advance for their studies. There is a need for information, as universities are also required to actively address the young people already during schooling. The many courses of study, which are not overcrowded and which are more happy about every student, are intended to go to the students and advertise students there. The young people in our country deserved the best educational opportunities in all areas of the education system, including at the universities.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e5480	Next speaker: Mr Amon. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e5501	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! In order to at least initiate the joint motion for a resolution, I can make a joint request from Mr Dr Karl and Mr Mag. bring in Kuntzl. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you, Madam President, to take the request into consideration. If we are going through today's debate, I believe that we have to address one thing here – that is important to me, because we are constantly holding educational debates in which we are talking about international comparison studies and trying to produce something like a common sense, namely that we should try to make further developments in the education system in the European step: In particular, if we are moving in the primary and secondary education debate, we often experience that the coalition partner is also conducting international studies and says that we should actually take on as much as possible what is going on in other countries. And then I'll ask the question: Why does this not apply suddenly to the tertiary sector? – There are only three or more states in Europe that have neither any form of access to universities nor study contributions. There are only three countries in Europe in which there is not one of the two forms. I believe, Mr Bundeskanzler, that this question is already justified: In the case of international comparison studies in the primary and secondary sectors, why is everything that is happening at European level and not in the tertiary sector? – I ask the coalition partner to answer this question. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to refer to the comments made by Professor Van der Bellen – although I do not see him at the moment, I would nevertheless like to pick up his arguments a little bit. Professor Van der Bellen has said that if one uses the absolute population, then in relation to the population, much less German students in Austria studied than Austrian students in Germany. He said that. If you continue to play this, that would mean that even if 60,000 German students were studying in Austria, they would still be less in proportion to the population. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Balanced!]] So, this argument really goes empty. Another argument, Mr. Professor Van der Bellen has brought here, goes empty, and that was already very interesting for me Professor Van der Bellen reported that the Vienna transport companies sent him a request that he could drive half the price in Vienna. [[Call the Greens: Don't be so small-cared, Mr Amon!]] So it's like a discount that he's given. He then said, of course, that he did not use it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because he's driving the car!]] He probably meant that a Member would be able to afford to pay the full price. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He's driving the car!]] I would like to take this very argument into account for study contributions. Of course, a person who can afford it should also contribute to a highly qualified training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: So that performance is worthwhile again, isn't it?]] That's exactly what we say. The investigations of the past have shown very clearly that every third student has not paid any contributions at all because he has been fully supported by the taxpayer. Each second student has received some kind of support – a scholarship or a replacement of the study contributions. It is precisely a question of social security, ladies and gentlemen, of social democracy, and it is not to be seen that the son of the Director-General can study free of charge and the daughter of the “famous” Billa Cassier studying for free. This basically leads to an inequality of treatment, ladies and gentlemen, if we all treat the same thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am glad, Mrs. Schmied, that in the field of school we have succeeded in developing a number of measures that have succeeded in bringing the education standards to the fore, that it has succeeded in legislating key elements in the mature examination, namely, across all forms of school education, higher education and higher schools, which also include the field of professional maturity examination, and that we are basically taking – Mr. Faymann stressed this in his remarks – on the issue of the full-day offer we want to expand, which we want to make wherever it is necessary, of an opinion.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e5630	Mr Graf is now speaking for a second time. The remaining speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e5651	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! A few corrections to the previous speakers: Mr Amon, we had study contributions until six months ago, and there are restrictions on access. I say to that, partly with the agreement of the Greens – you must never forget – who have even spoken the word for access restrictions for studies that are still to be created. – Is it true, Mr Greenewald?- Oh, my God! Mr Zinggl has also said so. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: In medicine, yes!]] That's the first point: We should not speak otherwise in the committees than outside. This is uncertain for students, teachers – and taxpayers anyway. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Amon, if you say that healers in all matters are study contributions and access restrictions, then everything would have to be good now. We have access restrictions, and for half the year since there have been no more study contributions, there can also be no reason for the sudden breakout of the big miser. So this argument goes empty. At most, it is recognized that it needs more than these two flat-rate opinions: Austrians must be kept away from the universities when it comes with all means. Another point: It is always about the opportunities for Austria's youth. Mr Cap has said here that he is for the direct election to the Austrian high school. In 2008 and 2009 before the OH election, such requests were made by the Freedom Party, even by name. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They voted against the SPÖ. That was the problem. You and the ÖVP voted against it. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Please leave the church in the village! Mrs Kuntzl came here and said that 80 percent of infrastructure expenditure had been reduced in 2003. - That's not true. In 2001, 60 percent were cut. Mrs Kuntzl, you've been a little wrong in the year. You know why? – Because in 1999 there was an election where the SPÖ was elected, and the SPÖ did not leave a budget! The new budget was only made effective 1. These measures were decided on July 2000. As a result, we actually have in this government period – which we can talk about, how to do, and what we can say about what we want – the SPÖ's budget requirement, which has no longer been planned. So stick to the truth, don't be insecure! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The budget is increasing in absolute numbers in the tertiary education sector, no question, we have seen that too. But if you're going through it, then what the Freedom Party said at the beginning of this year in the discussion is true: The universities remain poor! That was the headline of a newspaper article that I wrote, which did not find in the public as much rainfall as some other newspaper articles. Why? – It has already been said: FWF, rework of projects, new projects such as MedAustron, Gugging were fully financed, the Observatory in Chile, the e-voting project – all this costs money, all of this goes to the universities. Such new projects will be financed, but nothing will be spent where the shoe really presses. A purchasing power loss has occurred, and this has really had less than you had before if you adjusted it to purchase price. We do this with pensioners, employees – collective agreements and so on – everywhere you do – only universities and students do not do it. We should understand once again that we really need index adjustments as well. We therefore propose a resolution that will be distributed because it is so extensive that it concerns a twelve-point package for the rescue of Austrian universities or, let us say, a twelve-point plan for Austrian universities, a national power act as we have already announced. I would like to explain this request in the main guidelines: First: We want to stick – this is at risk – to the principle of research-led teaching and thus no “class room university”. In many minds, it is obvious that at least the first member of the three-member study programme as a “Class Room University” is being implemented without research-led teaching. We're against it. An educational policy objective. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Secondly, We want to ensure free access to higher education at Austrian universities for Austrians, and we really know it – and not the way the SPÖ does, which has introduced new access restrictions in the 2009 Act by removing even the legislator. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] In this case, they do not make a secret at all, but they have given the rectors the opportunity for new admission restrictions on application to the Council of Ministers and thus, in the past, has not been able to do so, the Parliament has turned out on this issue. This is a real cardinal error in terms of access restrictions. You will probably still feel sorry for your own decision, but probably forget it again. We need a top-level reform. We are always talking about the highest number of students, the under-level reform and so on, but what is really important is that we produce quality from the gymnasias, people who can do the study qualitatively. Unfortunately, this is no longer the case today. Much of what is missed in school has to be picked up by the university – and that is unfair! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need an evaluation of the activities of university management, such as a customer survey, that is, a student survey. Are the managers able to comply with the student service requirement – it is in itself normal that there is such a thing –? We do not need 2% of GDP by 2020, as Mr Amon said, but by 2015. This is the Unimillarde – in six years. That's 170 million extra money we should spend. We also need 3 000 new posts for teaching staff at Austria's universities by 2015. We need the collection of the teaching staff's secondary activities at universities in order to further improve the care relationship. They work in part elsewhere, but not for the students, and I would like to have a report on this in Parliament so that we can discuss it once. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need the implementation of the online study at all universities. This should be awarded, and there should also be a report in Parliament. We need the study place-related funding of teaching at Austria's universities – that is what we, Green, Red and Blue, have decided together, but with the last novel you have deleted it again. We need to do this so that we finally know what a study place costs, and that is what the Court of Auditors is doing constantly. We also need the creation of a total renovation and new construction planning including a time and cost planning based on an evaluation of the spatial range of Austrian universities and a report on this. It might also be necessary to question whether you do not introduce trimesters instead of semesters to improve the utilization of our resources. And finally, we need an evaluation of the Bologna process, because I believe that we have to suspend it in part, especially in the three-member studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e5757	The motion for a resolution set out in its main points, which is also distributed, is also under negotiation, as is the request of Mr Beatrix Karl, Mr Mag. Andrea Kuntzl, ladies and gentlemen, who had been brought in earlier. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e6200	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e6221	Mr President. High house! Mr Cap, if you listen to me like this, you could get the impression that the SPÖ is actually an independent parliamentary group with reference to the decision of 24. September 2008 – this has been a heroic act. The fact is that your group is now attracted by the ÖVP with sausagesmelln. The main thing is that you people have the sausages and the auer cuts in the committee, otherwise the Social Democratic Group is not interested in anything, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Cap, the SPÖ has long since joined the Austrian People's Party! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, this is a subject that we will explain with you at a special meeting. They will have to explain to us how it is possible for the Austrian People's Party, in ancient tradition, to try to damage parliamentary democracy where it can only remove where it can, and the SPÖ makes it the wall for it! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] What, then, is new to the parliamentarianism of the Social Democrats except the sausages and the Auer cuts? - Nothing, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, you will have to explain to us how this is possible. – There was a promise, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr. Minister will be invited out of service to Strasser when these chapters are completed; a commitment also by the Social Democrats has not been complied with. Of you, we were used to something else so far, with the blacks we know that – you know that, too. [[towards SPÖ]] Every red one talking to outside the gang says: Awesome with the ÖVP, they don't keep anything! Ladies and gentlemen, we have at least known from the Social Democrats that it is a matter of making up. – But no, now there are sausages instead of keeping a given word. The Socialists can today be called into question for a sausage. That's a new insight! Mr. Hahn is now fleeing to Brussels. Unimisers are not solved – the unmisers are his own political responsibility. Hahn's gone, ladies and gentlemen! I've had my own experiences. I'm not a scientist, but I've had my own experiences with Hannes Hahn or Gio Hahn – I don't know what the right name is. I once asked him how it is possible that in Austria a center for anatomy and cell biology will receive additional funds of € 600 000 a year and there is a researcher who will not even be provided with a grid electron microscope. I have sent Mr. Hahn, in order to know that this is not a researcher, a long list of publications that this researcher has partially brought out at his own expense, because he is not suffering from this institute, which is clearly occupied by political parties. He has been put in the Besenkammer, he has to do everything he wants to do in research at all – by the way, this is someone who does not come from Austria; because he is advised to internationalise the Austrian universities. So this researcher is not an Austrian, so he is not one of the classical power structures and is starved. This is something that Minister Hahn has not tangled. He has said that all this lies in the autonomy of the universities, because unfortunately he cannot do anything, he only gives the money, what should he do. Mr President, we do not need a minister to do this, since it is really good if you go to Brussels, because if you just want to win through the money, but do not want to control it, I would like to ask you a good trip to Brussels, then your post is anyway mis-occupied with you! [[Abg. Kößl: The most important thing is to adapt!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I know that not later than since your reply to the question, Mr Minister, in which you said: My name is Hahn, I don't know anything, I can't do anything! – This is not a ministerial responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] However, we have heard this today from Mr Amon in the Committee of Inquiry – and this is also to be said in the plenary session of the National Council – and there is no such thing as this. This is what Mr Amon said: There is no ministerial responsibility at all! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Bucher.]] – That's right, too! The moment a minister of the ÖVP is assigned, there is no longer any ministerial responsibility! Prime Minister responsibility is only available to all other couleurs, and there is no ministerial responsibility for black ministers. I need to re-move an example to prove this: Mr. Strasser stands in as an inventor of the entire peak system in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, keyword: BIA, in the Causa Kazakhstan, where ex-Minister Bartenstein has his business interests. Bartenstein said he was for the cargo – typically black! – but he already knew that his party was against it, so he was for it. He then wanted to suggest that he was the independent committee chairman. Go, Martin Bartenstein, don't mind! You knew very well that your party is opposed to resistance, so you were able to announce big and full-bodied that you are for the charge of the ministers! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Stadler, you're ridiculous! A ridiculous guy!]] In fact, the Austrian People's Party does not want a single minister in the Committee of Inquiry, because under the duty of truth, it would be more than politically dramatic for the members of the Austrian People's Party from the former Federal Government and from the current Federal Government. The same applies here too – I am glad that the Federal Chancellor is back in the hall out of service bowl –: If you believe you already have the story with MobilTel Bulgaria behind you, then we will start now! Ladies and gentlemen – thanks to your own “great” group leader in the committee, Mr Amon, a very large “artist of democracy” – if you believe that the opposition can be welcomed, that you – as you did in the Banking Investigation Committee – at the moment when it is about the black power structures, at the moment when the party felt, at the moment when the party funding felt is to be examined towards the EIA, can simply turn a committee back to the Banking Investigation Committee. [[Abg. Kößl: You're no longer serious to take, really!]] You turned this off at the moment when we wanted to clarify the deal of MobilTel Bulgaria and the visit of the Federal Chancellor Schüssel with a piano and with Mr Elsner and Mr Wallner in Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen. A fact that has not been clarified to this day! I think it is time to clarify this, because this man wants to make a career in Brussels. They're supposed to know who they're dealing with out there, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kößl: Now you've just said it: You're just about to fit! Just paste – that's all!]] Maybe it's also in your interest that you might wake up and think about what's more important now: [[towards SPÖ]] A sausage cream for fellow Otto Pendl, a maner-cut or an eye-cut – or that you may be interested in a parliamentary reconnaissance once again! I have always believed that democracy is so important to you that you are not just laying down cranes on your monuments and monuments today. Today is your great day of wreathing – and exactly on this day help They of the Austrian People's Party, to make the robbers for cover-up, cover-up, and any parliamentary democracy. [[Abg. Grosz: cave!]] That's not what your forefathers are – no, you don't have to shake your head, Josef Cap! – asked you. When they see that reds have been cleaned out of the Ministry of the Interior for years and days and Blacks then sit on these posts and then see the pangs of your committee members today, as the chief agent in this respect, Mr Kloibmüller, who has done all this on behalf of Mr Strasser, must be protected with your support – they would be hiding under the table in view of what your people have done to poverty today, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Call at BZÖ: Turn around in the grave!]] [[Abg. Kößl: You are really a shame to Parliament!]] It will therefore remain with it: Last time we tried to find out what MobilTel Bulgaria and Mr. Schüssel have to do with each other – and we stay on it. We will explain what Strasser has done with Mr Alijev; why it was possible, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Alijev has received a permanent residence permit at the district headquarters Horn within two days, after previously going to random orders to ÖVP close to companies – one of these entrepreneurs once worked in the cabinet of Mr. Lopatka, ladies and gentlemen. That's what we're going to do. If you believe that you can prevent all of this from being cleared up, then be fooled! That is how Parliamentary control in Austria cannot be removed!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e6400	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e6421	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The BZÖ has obviously adopted itself entirely of the problem of studies, universities, concerns of students. The only thing that is left is a charge to the Minister Hahn, who is, however, entitled – and I would like to use it, for I am already interested, Mr Minister: ==References== The first talks with the students were now offered on November 1. I wonder, What to do You'll be there until then? You're the Minister of Science, there's really everything burning – and you've got it on 25 May. In November you set a first date for which you said the same thing, a little bit will be discussed, and then it will go on somehow. So there's the accusation that you're with a Been standing in Brussels and actually being a Lame Duck – or actually a Lame Cock, you really should say – is already entitled. In fact, the new Minister or the new Minister should be invited to these talks or even lead these meetings. Conversely, the students are constantly accused, which I can't quite understand: There would be no specific demands that the concerns were somehow fogged, could not be negotiated in concrete terms and so on. One thing is certain: The students are not a sophisticated social partners who can promise that they will not strike for two years if they receive €35 million in addition. That is right, and that makes them more credible in their concerns. But it's actually inconceivable, which is called for next to that: They should somehow clean up, they should be mindful of the media – as soon as the media need something, they must be there – they should not get too loud and not disturb university activity, because studying is better than protesting. – Yes, they want to study! You want to, but you can't! – You should speak with one voice and not play basic democracy in any way. And above all, they are supposed to draw up rigid proposals as to how to deal with the miscarriage of the university. The latter, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly not the task of the students. The solution to the problems is clearly a policy matter. Parliament has been pointing out the abuses for many years, everything has already been decided, but in the end the government has only one thing in its mind, namely: How can you cut the number of admissions, how can you select whether by tuition fees or by admission restrictions? – This is certainly not the right way: The conditions at universities are not to be improved, but – and this is very paradoxical! – it's supposed to go less to the colleges. "The students are really the evil, they belong to away! If they were not, everything would be much easier!" – that is clearly your view, Mr Minister, and that is obviously also the view of the ÖVP. Let us imagine all this in the primary education sector! Let's imagine that at the public schools it would be so that too little space, too few teachers, too few materials would be available! Then who would talk about selection? Who would require recording tests? Who would possibly still ask for fees and say that only a few should go to elementary school? - No one. So it is obvious that the ÖVP, but also the SPÖ, has not yet fully recognized the importance of the tertiary sector, for otherwise this would not be discussed again and again. Whoever argues that the state should only regulate admission tests, i.e. determine more or less what can be studied, he has not understood anything, at least not understood by self-determination of individuals, nor by any motivation that is very important in learning. If something is chosen by itself, it can be studied differently, it can be learned differently. That is, I think, something that the ÖVP is calling for urgently. You see, this is not the worst of the restrictions on access, but we actually compare the whole with the Numerus clausus in Germany, because there we have a kind of selection, in which you can easily see how pointless the whole thing is. In many cases, German regulation says to the applicants: “Dear woman, you unfortunately have only one in chemistry at the Abitur. They are therefore not suitable to be a doctor and may not study it.” – If these students come to Austria and say: “I want to become a doctor, so to speak, I have to pack the last opportunity at the kick!” and here she is trained, then she is at the end of the doctor and goes back to Germany and practises there. And this is now allowed at once! Now she is allowed to practice suddenly in Germany as a trained doctor – before it actually said she would not have been suitable! Ladies and gentlemen, we need to talk about this across Europe. The Federal Government, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Science, must talk to the Germans about this, and I am therefore submitting the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] These contradictions in all reception procedures do not make young people decide what to do with them. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is not necessary. After all, studying does not mean studying abroad, does not mean taking over the pre-cooked unreflected, does not mean making appearances and finally having the title, but studying means trying to investigate, analyze, compare, look at something universal – in the word “universal” is the word “universal”. And that's why I think it's urgent... – I said everything. [[Abg. Hornek: What did you actually want to say?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e6504	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e6577	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e6614	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If this discussion has brought one today, it is clear how the different parties deal with the issue of education and university access. When I gather Mr. Chancellor's speech at the beginning of this debate on the demands and facts, our Chancellor speaks about free access without social and financial barriers; he says that the academic rate – which we know is too low at present – must be increased; he says that students' access to higher education must no longer be dependent on the educational status of their parents; he acknowledges that the funding of universities, the tertiary education sector should be increased to 2% of the gross domestic product in the given framework by 2020; and he also renews his demands to the Minister of Economic Affairs to present a university plan for the next years. If I have listened to what Mrs Karl, President of the ÖVP, has said in her speech, then one remains – it is also the title of the press release –: Karl calls for the reintroduction of the tuition fees. [[Abg. Petzner: Super!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Perfect!]] We have experienced what the BZÖ has to say about education discussion. Mr Stadler has used his speaking time instead of in the field of education to talk about sausages and investigation committees, and Mr Bucher has tried to stamp the students, the protesters at the university as left-left anarchists, and has also included the subtitle that performance needs to be rewarded again. [[Abg. Grosz: They call themselves “Audi Marxists”!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Go to the Audimax!]] I was in the Audimax! – That is where we in the House could take a long look at the speech discipline that exists in the Audimax plenary session! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It was five demonstrators yesterday!]] Also to the gentlemen of the BZÖ Allow me a comparison, a medical comparison [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Five demonstrators were there yesterday!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No! Please don't!]] The people who are being vaccinated against the New flu today protect those people who are not vaccinated. And the students who sit at the university today and fight for fair conditions of study, that there is more money for universities, and who are ultimately responsible for all of Austria’s suddenly talking about education, are those of whom – if you call the one “left-left chaots” – perhaps the right-wing students will benefit! [[Abg. Grosz: The comparison with the pig flu vaccination is a risky one! – Are you already a lobbyist for the pharmaceutical industry? Are you getting paid for by Baxter? Did you get paid by Baxter?]] That means splitting into it is the completely wrong way. I believe that this party-politically completely independent but highly political discourse, which is currently running at universities throughout Austria, is exemplary. And these left-wing anarchists, as you call them, have succeeded in achieving a solidarity that goes far beyond what you take in under “left-hand”. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Austrian Trade Union Confederation has solidified its solidarity with workers. [[Abg. Petzner: Record unemployment – that's why they should be...!]] Pensioners have solidified themselves. It has solidified the “left-left” union of public service/university teachers. [[Call at BZÖ:The Trade Union Public Service threatens you!]] Rectors have solidified with the demands. – What has succeeded in doing there, independent, objectively verified, is to be treated with respect and respect! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: But you are in government!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you already notice that they are demonstrating against you?]] [[Abg. Bucher: Who is in the government? Are you in government or in opposition?]] My predecessor Andrea Kuntzl has already said: There will be no reintroduction of study fees with SPÖ. We are called upon to start bilateral dialogue on how to deal with students who do not study in their home country. This is a problem that concerns not only Austria, but that is what we have in the European Union in several countries. Mr. Hahn will have the opportunity to vote in favour of this situation, which the European Union is currently facing, directly in the European Union. And then we'll finally see if many, many words follow. And that's what we'll measure him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e6830	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Schüssel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e6857	With your permission, Mr President, I should like to address the subject raised by Mr Stadler. I want to save you the trouble of a committee of inquiry. I was already asked about my role in the acquisition of the mobile phone of Bulgaria by the Austrian Telekom via an intermediate step. I'd like to repeat this. [[Abg. May. Stadler: In the Committee!]] – I have already done this in the Committee, under the obligation of truth. My role was to support an Austrian offer, like any normal head of government or minister, of course. And then there was a concerted state opera game in Sofia, attended by the President of the State, the Prime Minister, the half Bulgarian government, and I went there at the invitation of the sponsors. And on the open stage – the house was full – we handed over two Bösendorfer-Pianinos for a music school. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who was there? ...........................................................................................]] This, I believe, has been a very reasonable and good investment in the Austrian image – and nothing at all for which an Austrian Chancellor would be ashamed, Mr Stadler! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Was Mr. Elsner present? Did the Lord sleep with you?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who was the plane of?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point: If you are addressing Belgrade, it might not be bad if you inquire with former Vice-Cancellor Hubert Gorbach. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, eh! Let's go! – The Gorbach is so good, he will be safe!]] He was very active there and has also been committed to an Austrian idea – unfortunately not so successful. But there is nothing for which an Austrian member of the government must be ashamed if one is to work for Austrian entrepreneurs, Austrian joint ventures, Austrian projects, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Last sentence: You have so suggested – and this is your style – that there are possible party financial interrelationships. If you have meant this to me or my party, honourable Member, I hereby announce a complaint to you here and now for damage to the call, where you will still wonder! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That’s what I’m afraid of now!]] And I would ask the House not to prevent the immunity of Mr Stadler from putting on such unproven suspicions here in the House under the protection of immunity. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That’s what I’m afraid of now!]] For this, please, we are really too good of the People's Party to deal with you!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7013	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7036	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! From piano playing in Kazakhstan and questions of immunity back to education debate. You have first heard that Martin Graf has tabled a motion for a resolution on which we have clearly seen the expertise of the liberals in the debate on education behind it. The concrete proposals are being made here, which are necessary and correct! And a proposal if you already want to have Martin Graf out of the office of the Third President of the National Council: The future Minister of Science, who would do this Republic well, is sitting in front of me! And that's good. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Thank you! Thank you!]] It was referred to by Mr Zinggl and also by a resolution by the Greens in such a way that consultation was needed on the question of students from the Federal Republic of Germany. – One thing is clear on the basis of the figures: Only one third of the foreign students in Austria are German citizens. What actually happens to the two thirds of the others? Why are there no proposals, no suggestions or any similar from the Greens? – But perhaps it is also a form of new xenophobicity that has happened to the Greens here. In any case, we are waiting for your proposals, which steps With regard to all other nationalities studying in Austria – thank God, because this mobility is important, not only for Austrians abroad, but also for us. Therefore, these issues are completely missing points of approach in order to create solutions here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Oberhauser has muttered about the fact that on the side of members of the BZÖ, the Audimax's occupations as "left-left chaots" are led, and has then added up who has already solidized with them: Trade union confederation, rectors and the like. – I can only imagine one thing, in particular with regard to the trade union federation: A particularly rigid legal organisation is not the union union. The rectors, in general, would not be striking either. There are a lot of those who belong to the left spectrum, and there will probably be no wonder when you solidify yourself. The only thing that surprises me in this solidarity is that it's not weatherproof, because: Once demonstrations of common nature between ÖGB and Audimax's occupyors are started and it rains, solidarity is only available at a total of 170 people, and no longer. Here you can see the influences of the weather on solidarity! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What else is going on at the university? – It should be noted that the Austrian High School as a democratically legitimised, constitutionally appointed representation body has no influence on those who are inside the Audimax. There is a slow, but certainly the question of what this Austrian high schooling needs, but also the forced membership to do so. Only 100 000 € from students who actually would like these audiences to complete their studies in time and in time?- Oh, my God! After all, we forget one thing: Much more than 90 percent, almost 100 percent of Austrian students want to complete their studies, who want to learn at the university and do not organise sit-in or happening there with cinema shows and discussions about where lesbians and gays can best stay. This is not what Austrian students want in the large majority! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It will also be discussed whether a 25 percent voting party is really able to perceive the interests of Austrian students in view of these events. In any case, one has shown itself, and in this respect the students were quite right: At a certain point at the beginning of this occupation – and this is a permissible means – you have shown that there are problems. Just, this overstepping is to be refused! It is likely that this occupation will also create jobs, or that money will flow into the economy. The individual painters and painters or the carpenters will certainly thank themselves if they can do the repairs in the Audimax and in the other audiences in Austria and thus achieve sales. Only, this is not exactly the job creation that we liberals present to us in our country. Chaos and property damage are certainly not the appropriate measures. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What are you proposing?]] Mr Zinggl and several previous speakers also discussed the European dimension. It is already seen that, as a result of the announcement that our Minister of Science is being sent to Brussels and is to be accepted by the scientific community, the European student community is also solidarity. The only announcement that Hahn is going to Brussels is that student protests are similar throughout Europe, as we can see from the media. This is a European dimension which we owe to the Commissioner sent by the SPÖ to Brussels. It is certainly a must that Chancellor Faymann was interested in not sending Willi Molterer, but Gio Hahn to Brussels, because he intervened in the Vienna election campaign and wanted to remove the absolutely successful spearhead of the ÖVP against Michael Häupl from Vienna, for this is certainly not a suitable measure for the real political debate between H.-C. Strache and Michael Häupl in any form. On the contrary! If one reads that Johannes Hahn is even pleased that his designed successor Harry Himmer wants to continue the style and the line, so that for the Vienna ÖVP is actually an absolute battle ground. [[Abg. Kickl: From G. H. becomes H. H.!]] One last thing: The Federal Government shows no awareness of reform on this issue. In our view, and there one could save immediately, it would be that one should put together the offices of both governments, which are currently sitting on the government bank. [[Federal Minister Dr. Schmied and Dr. Hahn]] This would be a useful measure, as it did until 2006. This could save you and, above all, finally see the whole thing. Education is not only tertiary, secondary, but also not primary – or pre-school or kindergarten. In order to be competitive, we must work fully concentrated on education policy for our Austrian youth. This requires a work from the beginning of the educational opportunity of the children to the completion of a study. It's supposed to be possible. All the measures that this Federal Government has so far taken were tricks, number exchanges and the like. This is not a constructive education policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also need to deal with this, and I would like to remind you of the need to rethink the Bologna process for Austria, if not even to suspend it. That was actually the initial inflammation for the fact that the student protests started. This was at an art university, because the Bologna criteria are at least in place there; especially where it concerns very special, individual skills, such as at an art university, teachers and students have recognized that nothing will be to be gained with the criteria of Bologna architecture. We should also consider that. It's not every university the same, it's not all the gifts, all the conditions for studying the same. We've already said that the universities should tell which masters they want what matura level they want. We always say: The target device is intended to define which level is to come from below to it. That's crucial. Because the Minister for Education is right here: I looked at the part-central matura, which is asked in the school experiments at individual schools. Teachers told me that a well-trained primary student was in the 4th century. Class these matura questions in themselves can also solve. We do not then need to think at all about how the level of education will be at the universities. If you press the level down that way, then, of course, the calls for access restrictions will get worse and worse and no longer every Austrian child will succeed in improving something here in some form due to the previous education in the primary and secondary area. We want an overall education system in which education is actually taught, so that the study is guaranteed for all Austrians without any study contributions.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7147	Next speaker: Mr Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7169	Mr President. High house! Education policy is a very comprehensive policy and actually begins with kindergarten and ends with university and further education. One could underline a lot of things that have been said today, but one also has to stop with some things. I had a problem with this university strike from the very beginning. I actually did not know until two days ago, until the Press Conference of Higher Education, which is the concrete concerns the students have. It was all very vaguely formulated, there were individual demands there and there, but an opinion of the ÖH did not exist until now. I have looked very closely at the paper from the ÖH and I find here some good approaches that I can underline, for example with regard to the university budget. This has already been said several times, and I think the government representatives from the ÖVP and also from the SPÖ should listen a little more to the experts. When Christoph Badelt, the head of the rector's conference, said before the government negotiations to the budget, you need €600 million more, and then there will be just under €400 million, then the money is missing somewhere. These amounts are also found in the applications submitted by the BZÖ or also by the Greens. On the one hand, investing €15 billion in possible direct aid to banks and on the other hand holding aside €250 million of necessary funds from universities is simply a educational-political cleanerry. I'm just saying this: This is an educational acidity! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is a sixtieth of the bank package. Let us also talk about the fact that those students from abroad who study with us should also make corresponding payments to the communities with us, as in the case of guest school contributions. This has already been mentioned. It would also make sense that you can't just come to Austria, use the system here, and pay our taxpayers, from hacker to officials and employees to entrepreneurs, for having to study disproportionately many foreign students. We also need to discuss this. It would also be important to provide a comprehensive Maturant Advice to prepare the students who are planning to go to university in order to reduce the dropout rates. But it would also be important, and there was Gio Hahn on my proposal to organise a round table, a survey. ==References====External links== November, much late, as I mean, because the university already burns much longer content. I therefore also believe that it will not be done with a survey. We need a discourse of all those involved, all concerned, in order to take the appropriate steps. What tasks, what objectives, which structures does the university have, and what does its funding look like in the future? To clarify this would be necessary. Mr Bucher has today set out a comprehensive model of how, as an emergency program, things could already be done in order to keep the universities fit. This is the university bonus of €5,000 in combination with the mandatory registration fee of € 5 000, a university bonus to benefit only Austrians in order to enable Austrians to study quality. This is the study entry phase with two semesters. I say this quite openly: Performance must apply everywhere! It applies in compulsory schooling, it applies in the AHS area, it applies to the apprentice, it also applies to the driver who first has to obtain a driver's license before driving. It should therefore also apply to students. [[Abg. Kickl: And how is this in national policy?]] Students should prove that they are able to study the subject. After two semesters it is expected to be assessed in total whether they can continue to study. That would make sense. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is also about reintroducing the tuition fees, and I sometimes have the impression that this is a very ideological discussion, and that must not be it anymore. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the figures speak a very clear language: In 2001, we had 228 000 students, 2002, after the introduction of the study fees, a fifth of them less: 183 000 students. Now there is a new study by the IHS, which clearly says that around one fifth of the students do not intend to complete the study at all. Now I wonder why we keep them in the system. And it was the social democrats, the left corner, together with the Greens and the liberals who abolished the tuition fees, who were against it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's not true!]] I'll tell you one more thing: If you want to study in Austria, you can also study, even if you are socially weak, because there are corresponding study grants. That would be the right access! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] After the abolition of the tuition fees, the number of students is accelerated to 292,000 in the 2008/2009 semester. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's not true at all!]] Yes! Read the papers, Mr. Graf. The number of foreign students increased by 120 percent over the same period. It is interesting that FPÖ has been trying to protect foreign tax evaders in banking secrecy, and now also to ensure that foreign students flooded Austria's university. Mr Graf, that is not what we want. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is also necessary to take account of the circumstances of the population. I say it very consciously once: Who's demonstrating? There are many – and I am consciously not saying the students – who want to study and can and cannot because the audiences have been blocked by demonstrators for weeks. I call them conscious – the keyword has fallen – Audimarxists. Audimarxists, left, left-left, foreign students are supported by auxiliary organizations such as CARE, so that they can block the audiences with us. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is not my access to performance and ordinary economic policies. Actually, you'd have to clear the hall! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: With the police!]] If three Audimarxists remain late in the evening and on the other hand there are thousands of people who want to study and cannot, then this is also a false public image that is drawn, ladies and gentlemen, dear. That is why the government is in need of action here, and I can conclude, because the red light is already shining here, that we have tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please act!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7317	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7442	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Walser. Your group's remaining speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7464	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! What we now hear from the legal parties – “left-wing students”, “audimarxists” – is unbearable. Are you not ashamed of the students who are working for their education and finally for education in this country to defame nothing but this?- Oh, my God! A embarrassment for this High House, a embarrassment of the special class! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] By the way, the Duelle Stadler/Schüsel have also lost nothing in this educational debate. Make it private! Education is an issue that is just about too much. Incidentally, the government bank lacks the secret education ministers. For months now, Minister of Finance Pröll has blocked every further activity, every reform of our education. And I am very, very grateful to the students, I would like to express my express thanks for their activities. They have launched a general debate on education and started. If Mr Widmann and Mr Co did not know what the demands were: They'd be readable. It is about free access to education in this country. It is about every human being, every child, every youth, every young adult having the same educational opportunities. This is not guaranteed at the moment, and I am also very, very happy and proud of our students that they have a long breath. In Austria, we need to catch up very much, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It has already been mentioned, but I would like to add a little more to the specific figures: 20 percent of workers in this country have tertiary education, have higher education. The OECD section is 29 percent. And we could go through this now. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Mr Bartenstein, look at the figures and do not do what the ÖVP has been doing for years: Every study is questioned by you, although all international studies always say the same thing: Austria, unfortunately, is not where it belongs in the field of education, namely at the top, but it is after. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have – and this is where the problem begins in our education system – the biggest barrier of selection already among the children of ten years of age. It does not have the same chance every child in this country! That is, please, the great educational scandal in our country that we are not able to promote children in such a way as to give them the opportunities they deserve. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's not true!]] If you look at who comes to our primary school and who comes to the gymnasium, then something is quite clear, what Günter Haider, what the BIFIE, what all the others confirm. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] In conclusion: We need to get out of the ideology trap. This concerns, in particular, the ÖVP. It costs money. And let me tell John F. Kennedy: There is only one thing in the world that is more expensive than education: no education! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7531	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7553	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister and Minister-in-Office of the Council! Dear spectators at home! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Widmann, what the students want is, I believe, quite clear, regardless of whether they sit in the Audimax, where demonstration was or are opposed to the Audimax occupation. Students want to study quickly and high-quality. I am not quite clear, however, what Members want here. There he goes out one BZO and once calls all Marxists and Anarchos, and the other says: Yes, but the demand for more money for universities is already important! The FPÖ now clearly wants to advertise students in Germany for the Austrian University, and the Greens want almost the same as all of us, namely more money for the students. [[Abg. Kickl: You didn't watch that once again!]] So it's clear that the colleagues are not here. The spatula to be a little bit with the young people, but not quite, is not very credible. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should define the objectives clearly, and these are: Firstly, everyone in our country who is able to do so must have the right to study as well. And willing to do so does not mean that parents can afford it, but that a young person wants to afford something, to continue training, and later to pursue a career. Secondly, it must be our goal that Austria is educational country number one. We're not gonna find any oil here. Social democracy will always defend that we do not have low wages here. [[Abg. Grosz: You're moving the money into the Caribbean anyway! There's no oil there either!]] And we won't be a tax haven either. That means that what we need to build on is our young people. This is where we must and can keep up in international competition, our young people are. That is why we need to invest more money in education and become educational country number one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And thirdly, I want young people to be critical, to think critically, not to ball the fist in the pocket of your pants, but to go out and say their opinion. And that's good! 40,000 young people were on the street – yes, partly with different opinions, just as you do in the BZÖ, quite different opinions on the same subject – when 40,000 young people go on the road to make their displeasure air, then you do not have the right to call them Anarchos! [[Mr Grosz and Mr Petzner: The BZÖ!]] Mr Buchner, visit the introduction seminar on political science! [[Members Grosz and Petzner: Bucher!]] Anarchy means that I have no confidence in politics, that I don't think they can control something. [[Abg. Grosz: This applies to education policy in Austria!]] But the young people in Austria trust us. They believe and hope and hope for solutions from us. They trust in politics again, and that's a good thing. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, to clarify the fairy tale with the study fees: I myself studied under black and blue and therefore studied with tuition fees, and it has not changed anything in terms of study conditions. That means, I don't know where the money was flown, definitely but not into the universities. At the time, people did not study faster, and the situation at the universities was no better, but those who are already disadvantaged anyway – we know that every tenth student at the university has parents who do not have a university degree – again. I would like to give a personal example because I am very scared by the colleague Karl's statement that today someone who cannot study for reasons of illness does not have to pay any tuition fees. Yes, I personally have a friend who has failed for two semesters for reasons of illness at the university and is now soon to be thanked, his studies will end. He couldn't study. Requesting those people to return to study fees is completely absurd and incomprehensible and will not take place with the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us finally confess that Austria should be the educational country number 1, let us confess that we want more young people at the university and no less! Let's not waste thoughts here about how I can keep people away from the university, but let's think about how we get the universities to go to schools and advertise young people to bring them back and say: Study with us! [[Abg. Kickl: I would suggest that the demonstrators occupy the Löwelstraße and let the students study!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, let us show young people that it is good to take up more education. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7696	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7717	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate members on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen. On this day, we agree on this. became that the future of Austria is also influenced by the future of education, research and science. But this basic consensus alone will not help us, and much more has not yet been heard. We have jointly decided that we want to develop a concept of lifelong learning. If I look at the opinions of SPÖ and ÖVP today, I believe that we need this concept very quickly, very quickly, within the meaning of universities and adult education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We don't get along with lack of concept. We don't just need more students, we need more graduates in particular. The figures speak for themselves: Between 2001 and 2008, the number of graduates increased by 62 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore need a dialogue and a consensus on why the number of graduates has increased to this extent during this period. – We have had stronger access regulations, we have had better professional information and study information, and we have had study contributions. You can't deny these facts, they must be quite simple. We therefore need a common dialogue – as Mr. Federal Minister has said – because the future of universities has earned a common view and not a different view, a common view on the question of Austrian higher education, quality assurance in higher education and resource management. On these fundamental issues, there is a need for a joint dialogue with experts, both from abroad and abroad, with those involved. We need an agreement on how we want to further develop universities. A session – and this has been shown today – will not be enough. We probably need several meetings to develop short- and medium-term prospects together. The Federal Chancellor said today: free access to higher education, no regulation, no restrictions on access and yet international leadership. – This is a model that does not exist all over the world. We therefore need a fact-based dialogue by looking at what the world's best universities are doing. They have an international scholarship, they look at diversity. These are internationally proven models that enable social justice, social compensation, and they promote performance, they promote personal relationship, they promote small groups relationships in which the scientific discourse can and must be learned. Therefore, open access to higher education without regulation, without restriction, without tuition fees, is nothing other than the statement: We have a football stadium, in which all those who are somehow interested in football, regardless of whether they have a ticket, whether there is enough space there, whether the fire protection regulations are right. That, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be the future for our universities! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need a dialogue that is realistic and forward-looking, and above all we need consensus between the two coalition partners, so that we can bring the other parties into the boat. As long as this consensus is not made, we will not continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7801	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7823	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. After today's discussion, we note that the SPÖ and the Greens have once again gone to the side of the left anarchists, the left chaots, the left Mob, who occupy the Audimax and place abstract demands. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They confuse solidarity with solarium!]] We talked about these demands today, so I brought along some of the demonstrations that took place there. Let us look at the demands of the Audimax occupationers that support SPÖ and Greens. [[The speaker holds a writing in the height on it, “For More Thick Milk, ” “Right to Owlness, ” “Reich Parents for All. ”]] “For more thick milk” is on one of these transparencys. Mr Cap, I note today that the SPÖ stands for more milk, whatever that is. Second example: ‘Right to laziness’. We note that the Green Group would like to have an securitised right to laziness in Austria. Third example: “Reach parents for all”. This is what SPÖ and Greens want: Right to laziness, right to thick milk, rich parents for all. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] We do not want this from the BZÖ, and that clearly distinguishes us. That is why we have no understanding of these occupations and say quite clearly that we have to consider – if this is not done by itself – how to clear the Audimax, send the police and disband the demonstrations. We say that students also have the principle that students have no right to laziness, but that they have an obligation not to stroll at the university, to learn and to study and to pass on something. Therefore also the position of the BZÖ, which remains unchanged: Yes to the tuition fees! We introduced them at the time, and we want them to be reintroduced and that the universities thus have 157 million € more budget. We say yes to a mandatory study entry phase over two semesters in which the qualification of the student is tested for the respective study. We believe that this is necessary. We also say yes to access restrictions at Austrian universities, because education costs. Education can't be free, anyone has to pay it. It must pay apprentices for their training, for the master's exam, it must pay professional high school students, why students not? - No one understands that outside. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the position of the BZÖ, which is and remains so. – Again: clear the Audimax and, as Gerald Groszauch has said, drive a Kärcher into the Audimax if necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7896	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e7919	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, in an assessment of the political debate so far, let me say that Mr Faymann Großes has succeeded, in the context of the nomination of Mr. Hahn for the post of a Commissioner of the EU and his forthcoming appointment as Minister of Science. The Federal Chancellor and President of the Social Democrats has succeeded in preventing another social democrat, Tony Blair, as a possible occupation of the highest function in the European Union. – Mrs. Rudas is photographing right now, I don't know if this is within the scope of the allowed possibilities of this house, but you are photographing as much as you want. The Social Democratic Party has also succeeded in preventing the former President of the Social Democrats, Mr Gusenbauer, as possible De facto Foreign Minister of the European Union. He also succeeded in governing the ÖVP, whom the ÖVP sent to Brussels. It's not Willi Molterer, but it's Gio Hahn, as he calls himself. One must insist that it is something great for a social democrat to prevent two social democrats in the highest role of the European Union, to dispose of a science minister at the point of cultivation of a chaos at the universities in Brussels and thus to govern the ÖVP. And the worst thing is, there isn't even a science minister right now. The ÖVP does not find a Minister of Science as much as a Federal Presidency candidate. So far, it's hailing everywhere, I'm taking the papers. [[Abg. Head: We didn't put in the newspapers!]] But I make an offer to you, Mr Faymann is now your personal advisor, perhaps Mr Faymann has a good tip on whom you can nominate for this function, after you have already made the offer that you will withdraw Gio Hahn when the SPÖ brings Gusenbauer to the highest representation function of the European Union in the field of external affairs. [[Call the SPÖ:For business!]] [[Abg. Großruck: The speech is very bad!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Don't get upset, or we'll talk about the postal market law, or we'll talk about the U committee, and there's a lot of worse things we're going to discuss elsewhere in detail. Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about the Audimax occupation today, and we're talking about the fact that more than three weeks ago this hall was occupied and at the beginning everyone actually understood that the students – don't get so upset. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grandruck.]] You can come out and say something. At the beginning, therefore, every understanding of the fact that a occupation took place, but when train around train was replaced by the help cry of the students by the professional demonstrators in the context of the Greens and Reds, sometime it ended with fun, and the public's understanding of it ended. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Petzner has already made a few demands for the best. [[The speaker gives enlarged copies of photos from the Audimax with images of transparency in height.]] “Crash course”, “Antifa Action Days”, that’s what sounds like from this Audimax. “Less education is humpi-dumpi” – good, you can only call the students. "Graf not for President", this is the demand that these occupyors make at the universities. If they were to deal with it a little bit, they could be happy if a minister of science Martin Graf could improve the state of the universities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can laugh as much as you want. If there had not been the Martin Graf and the Freedom Party, there would still be tuition fees, because it was we who made it possible to find a majority for it after you voted against ten times, were around it, promised it and didn't settle it. That's how it looks when you see the truth as the basis for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] The Audimax occupationers have today found a prominent supporter, the former German Chancellor Gusenbauer. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hornek.]] – Calm down You are! – Gusi, as he is lovingly called in the local newspaper economy, would also like to sit in a boat with the radical Marxist occupyors. Curiously, at the same time, Mr Gusenbauer has the contract of a European fund firm in his pocket and becomes a fund manager. [[Abg. Amon: Can he do too?]] I do not know how you, as social democrats, see that your former chairman is now becoming the head of a European fund and is involved in bonus payments to the same lazy, turbocapitalist, neoliberal system as you would like to call it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] No, you don't like that? We can also talk about Mr Ruttenstorfer, who recently initiated a procedure for financial market surveillance on the grounds of suspicion of insider trade. That's how it looks! I say the following: If the students themselves postulate to want to be the future spiritual elite, then they have to negotiate, then they have to submit arguments. Brain malt is always better than seat meat for students! This must be written to the Audimax occupations once in the main book. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Bucher.]] An article by Karin Leitner in today’s “Kurier” can also be called to them: Get out of the Audimax! There are enough students who have the right to study properly! There are enough students who have to wait now because some Marxist sit-ins are being organized, because 1,500 € basic incomes are required and there is no thought about how many people have to work outside the cold and not get 1,500 €. This is the true scandal that needs to be said today. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Yes, universities need more money, the conditions need to be better. It may not all be as "easy-cheesy" as Mrs SPÖ's head of business thinks, but improvements are possible if you sit at the negotiating table and seriously exchange arguments. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e8072	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e8094	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We'd have this 24. We would not have had a few discussions on September. On this day red, blue and green have abolished the study contributions, which was unique, populism pure and pure electoral tactics – a great mistake as we see now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Bravo!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What do we have at the universities? – We have demonstrations, we have protests, we have chaos. This situation was to be foreseen without great clairvoyance. Austria is one of three countries that has neither study fees nor access schemes, and that is the problem. We are overrun by students in some fields of study. Therefore, these tuition fees are urgently necessary – there are then positive performance effects, less bureaucracy at universities, a lower drop-out ratio and a shorter duration of study. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] By abolishing the tuition fees, we now have the chaos. It is bad that the quality at the university also goes down in a sustainable way. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Only the students are to blame, the minister?- Oh, my God!]] - We'll get the B-Liga to our colleges. The B-Liga from Germany, which does not create the Numerus clausus, the B-Liga from the educational universities, students who do not come to the train there. We also get the B-Liga from the colleges, students who do not create the recording test there. Is that all right? The technical colleges are a success model. There are access schemes there and at least some also tuition fees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] They have a shorter duration of study, they have a lower drop-out ratio, they also have a better social mix. What is public opinion on student protests? – According to IMAS survey of 5. November 2009, 86 percent of the respondents – you hear and marvel – are in favour of access restrictions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] According to the OGM survey, published in the "NEWS" on 5 May. November 2009, 42 percent of the respondents understand the student protests, but the majority of 51 percent do not understand them. On the question of reintroduction of study fees 54 percent say it would be somewhat better, 39 percent say: No, no, no, 61 percent of respondents believe in the effect of access restrictions based on entry examinations, and even 81 percent believe in the effect of access restrictions for students from abroad. It's a heart concern to come back to another topic. I have an APA message here from Mr Walser. He says: There is no need for religious symbols in school. The Greens therefore welcome the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Mr Walser, I am disappointed that you deny your Christian roots! That's a shame! I'm usually proud of the Vorarlbergers, but here I can only say: This statement is a shame – You have disqualified yourself as an educational speaker of the Greens!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e8177	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. 1 minute remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e8198	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing has already been shown by today's special meeting: The problem has not been solved, which over the last three or four weeks has plagued the performance-conscious, decent and diligent students in our country every day, namely the problem that performance-conscious students are held by their educational opportunities, because a mute of professional demonstrators from Germany and ideologically motivated young people, who are apparently boring, occupy our universities and prevent students from expanding their educational perspectives. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's not true!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] That is why we have said quite clearly – in addition to the model, the solution of the problem in the university area with the educational bonus, the educational check amounting to € 5 000 – that you have to go here first and say: [[Abg. Riepl: A snap idea!]] This government, this country, the powerful people in this country cannot be extorted! They cannot be extorted when our hearing rooms are occupied over four weeks, so that people cannot benefit from their educational opportunities. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. May. Gäßner: It's out!]] That's why I'm saying: The Federal Government is called on not to be blackmailed, but to allow these audiences once more to allow young people to learn something again at our universities. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Talk time!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e8292	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. First of all, the vote on the Self-employed Amendment No 852/A(E) by Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the implementation of the decisions of the National Council of 24 March 1988. ==References====External links== If you are in favour of this request, I ask you for a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Greenewald, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Science and Research pursuant to Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. If you vote in favour of the motion for a reluctance, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The request is rejected. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Karl, Mr Mag. Kuntzl, colleagues on the further development of Austrian higher education. If you join him, I'll ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 54.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues on National Kraftakt, on the 12-point plan for Austria's universities. If you support this request, I would ask for a sign. [[Abg. Rädler: (in the direction of FPÖ and Greens) Unholy Alliance!]] – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. [[Abg. Rädler: Your shame is called Allianz!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Calls at the FPÖ.]] We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zinggl, colleagues, on negotiations on compensation for German students at Austria's universities. If you join him, I'll ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Uni-Bonus’ and ‘Uni-Card’ – acute programme for universities. If you join this request, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[15:14:40]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e8410	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Stadler, Dr. Graf, Dr. Pilz on the establishment of an investigation committee to investigate Causa Kazakhstan and Causa MobilTel. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e8481	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government and by-word state secretaries should not last more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e8508	Mr President. High house! At the beginning of the setting-up of the Committee of Inquiry, which is currently meeting on the top-ranking business that has existed since Ernst Strasser in this country, we have had the promise that, when the chapters are completed, the respective ministers will be loaded. Mr Pilz asked for the shipment of the Federal Minister other than Ernst Strasser at the beginning. As a result, Mr Amon, supported by Mr Otto Pendl, said: No, we guarantee when the chapters are completed, then Ernst Strasser will be loaded and then also the responsible resort managers will be loaded! This has been the case in the Group leaders' meetings. [[Abg. Amon: Smooth untruth!]] This is not the untruth, especially when this accusation comes out of the mouth of the Austrian People's Party; I am particularly sensitive. [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] That is the truth, that can confirm every political group in this House – except for the Austrian People's Party, because of course it does not want to do so. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Completely right!]] That is exactly what has been agreed, exactly and exactly so, and that is why Mr Pilz changed his request. That was the reason why he modified his original application, in which Strasser was still present. It has then been voted on, and this request has been adopted unanimously. The commitment, Mr Cap, has clearly stated: Straster will be loaded, ministers will be loaded when these chapters are finished! But now, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that the original speculation of the ÖVP – this will be an investigation committee in which an opposition group will fall over the others, as it were, they will get bloody noses, and we are sitting in the ÖVP in the background, first row of foot-free, we are looking at it and looking forward to it – has not gone up, but it has turned out in the course of the work of this investigation committee: Black seat responsibilities for the complete failure of the political department of the Vienna Procuratorate! Black dine at the Ministry of the Interior! Black intervention by the police to start proceedings against opposition representatives! Everything heavy in black, ladies and gentlemen! We have not yet come near the SPÖ with any, really no research object. That's why I don't understand your behavior! The Austrian People's Party obviously has information about the SPÖ... [[Call the ÖVP: As the bad guy thinks!]] “As the bad guy thinks,” who says? [[Abg. Amon: As the bad man thinks, so he speaks!]] [[Abg. Hornek: As the bad guy thinks, so he speaks!]] Mr President, should I not only let Mr Amon cut myself in my democratic rights, but I should also like to be condoned as a ‘bare’? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, if someone in this house would have reason not to put the term “smell” in the mouth, then it is you! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President! “Schelm” is usually an order call!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am not so sensitive to what Mr Amon says. I just mentioned it in order to find out that those who celebrate the “great nobless” permanently are actually quite, very deep down, especially if they are presented with their own operations in connection with MobilTel Bulgaria, in connection with the granting of a residence permit by the County Head Team Horn to Mr. Alijev. [[Abg. Grill: We know the truth!]] [[Abg. Hornek: A fairytale uncle!]] If you keep all of this to you, then black becomes sensitive, then immediately the turn starts! Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! Madam President. This is not so easy, it is now really a fundamental question of democracy: Is this Parliament going to move on? Is this Parliament going to take hostages? After this committee was set up unanimously, this mandate was unanimously formulated, can the House be pleased that, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a risk that there will be an investigation into the area of the Austrian People's Party?- Oh, my God! This does not have the freedom to answer; we do not have to answer this from the BZÖ or the Greens, but we have only to answer it from the Social Democracy. They of the SPÖ make the ÖVP the wall – and nobody else! You have approved in the Investigation Committee that Mr Bartenstein first announced: Yes, the ministers are coming, Mr Donnerbauer said: Yes, it will not be different, so as we have always done in the previous committees of inquiry!, but now all of this is not going on at all? – I say to you: The Austrian People's Party has clear, easily recognizable reasons to be against these charges! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this is easily recognizable. Those who have had the trouble of studying the file will have realized that the Austrian People's Party has slightly recognizable, understandable reasons – if I were in its skin, I might also react in that way – why it wants to turn off this investigation committee, which is easily recognizable, easily understandable, easily understandable. But why do you make the robbers from the SPÖ since the ÖVP? Can you explain this to us and the public? How far does the threat with the coalition break go again that you need to help cover today by preventing Mr. Strasser from being loaded by preventing Mrs. Bandion-Ortner from being loaded? Mrs Bundesminister Bandion-Ortner assured me here at the government bank that she would come to the investigation committee at any time if she received a charge; she even liked to come, she said. She is really not too shy as a judge to appear in front of a committee of inquiry. – No, however, the ÖVP does not want this at all, because Mrs Bandion-Ortner is not so much on the party board as can be led by Mr Bartenstein at the party’s seat, how to lead the other representatives of the Austrian People’s Party on the party’s bill! [[Abg. Hornek: Go, stop!]] Please don't ask me, Mr Hornek. I have to report it to the House as well: The only thing Mr Hornek was interested in in this investigation committee was that he was on the laptop – not tractors, but what did you say? [[Abg. New builder: mowers!]] Dreschmaschinen, or what did you say? – Dreschmaschinen studied. [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr Hornek knows that, but otherwise this committee has no interest in him at all, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is the only thing Mr Hornek was interested in, and it is also his qualification for this committee. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is not about the masters of the Lord Hornek, but it is simply and simply about that... – Oh, Mr. Hornek has discovered a word game! [[Abg. Hornek: You are a malignor!]] Please, one more time! [[Abg. Hornek: A malignor!]] A “smearer” – an intellectual excellence, ladies and gentlemen! So much about the need to reform our universities: Mr Hornek had a ghost flash. It is important to maintain this for the Protocol. – Otherwise, I have heard nothing of him as unqualified calls for call throughout the committee. Not a single qualified question to an information person, but only organized outrage, if you have come somewhere near the Austrian People's Party with questions! [[Call to the ÖVP:We must listen to your unqualified speech!]] Ladies and gentlemen, all of this reminds me of the events in the Banking Investigation Committee. The Banking Investigation Committee was allowed to meet for so long – Mr Cap, look out again! – as the ÖVP believed to be able to catch you with the BAWAG; as long as he was allowed to meet. You remember when you were inside. It was a single effort, there was no question left out, so she could not be detailed at all, essentially, she went against red. But at the moment we wanted to investigate MobilTel Bulgaria, the turner came! Mr Schüssel has shown today how nervous he is in this regard. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He can threaten well!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schüssel cannot intimidate me with threats! That is why others have to come as a Mr Schussel to intimidate me to make me mouth-dead, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I can't be threatened with a complaint, Mr. Schüssel. I can't do that. You, Mr Schüssel, have remained guilty of informing us about the transactions at the MobilTel deal to date. If you believe you can only intimidate me with the designation of Hubert Gorbach, I'll tell you: Both in the investigation committee! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Both on the same bank, and both in the same rooms in the future! I don't mind, I'm not jealous. You know, my friendship with Hubert Gorbach really doesn't go that far – and she never went. But you both sit in the same boat, so you both also come to the investigation committee, and you both explain what the background of this deal was, what you really did! [[Abg. Hornek: German, heavy language!]] Need your piano and opera story You don't even come to me for that. This was not the reason to drive to Bulgaria, which you could have done in the Vienna State Opera. No, no, there have been quite different backgrounds! You should not have taken Mr Schlaf with you, but you should not have taken Mr Wallner with you. You should not have seen how Deutsche Telekom had to pay a much higher price for MobileTel Bulgaria. Ladies and gentlemen, far more than billions. You would not have needed a trip to Bulgaria, Mr Schüssel; you do not need to explain this to us all. There are a few people sitting in there, who might let your fairy tales appear; I don't belong to that anyway! That is why it remains: The order at that time stated: “Acquaintment of the perceptions and any measures of banking and financial market surveillance concerning the acquisition of the Bulgarian company MobilTel by Telekom Austria with the participation of BAWAG (Complex Taus/Schlaff/Elsner) and the similar attempt in the case of the Belgrade company MobTel and the role played by members of the Federal Government.” – Quotes. Ladies and gentlemen! At the moment when this should have been the subject – turned off! The moment we want to find out about Kazakhstan – turned off! A single day is reserved, and loud people are invited, who can hardly say anything. The people we want won't be loaded! Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this is politically outrageous! You're sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e8810	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e8855	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If it were not so sad, it would actually be funny – but it is far too serious and far too sad. Mr Stadler, if you are already quoting what we have been discussing – you have only always swept it away – I have always said the same from the first second to the present [[Abg. Grosz: The soup is too thin!]] If it is necessary because of the file situation, then there is nothing against the fact that we are also loading government members. But why do we make it difficult at all, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition or Mr Group leader of the opposition Pilz? – It’s easy: You want to discuss Eurofighter; I save myself now, all the old stories, Ewald, until back when you were a popular lawyer, you want to discuss it. I say it won't be better, so you can read the order that has been decided here as often as you want. The link here is that with the top coward, with politics and with Parliament. It's funny or sad, judge it for yourself! It is all about the Committee's mission, as we have decided here, to do nothing at all. You either have to take note of this, or you play with the whole thing. Then simply say that you want to play – but to play, ladies and gentlemen, an investigation committee is too serious, too important and not the right place! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I said it last time and I say it again: Thank you all to the chairman, because he and also the lawyer should not have allowed so many questions! Then you have always complained about discussions. The Greens weren't always fine, are they not true, Mr Graf, there have been matches that I don't need to repeat here, because you were all there anyway. It is only that the chairman would have been very close and hard to the decision and could not have allowed it. Well, I would have looked at the discussion about this first! That's what we know. I would really invite you: If we want to provide a service to policy, if we really want to do this to our House, if we also want to give the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry for the future a chance, Madam President, then we have to deal with it differently. If we deal with this, we don't take it seriously ourselves, and the population doesn't take it seriously. I would also like to ask you to consider how some of the people invited have been questioned and treated by some of your colleagues. [[Abg. Hornek: That's the way it is!]] Well, I'll look at it when it's the other way round, my guesses. Ladies and gentlemen! We don't need that. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I believe that the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry is a far too important, a far too serious thing. We have it in several of these areas, which have been discussed here over and over again. Now I can make a political assessment and say: There is no criminal record when someone plays out information against the law – that's about an official. I can say that, too, politically. But it must be assessed according to the legal situation. And whether there is ever a majority here in this House who says that in the future there will be no abuse of office, just because it is played out by politics, I dare to doubt it! But it is true that there are some political opinions which have been made. You make permanent, not legal, and not fair at all! I'm not talking about justice. I believe that we have done really crystal clear and correct by the hour after our mission, which this House has decided to do. I also believe that those ladies and gentlemen, whom we invite as informers, have a right to have us deal properly with them. Now I don't want to talk about courtesy, but rudely nobody has to deal with them either, they didn't deserve it either. That is what I am saying in all clarity, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And I don't think that's gonna or should not be a show. If we have political controversial discussions – and this belongs to democracy – then we have them to lead here. We have serious, rapid, transparent and correct work in the Committee of Inquiry. That's what I'm inviting you to do! Last time I said it and now I formally ask you: correct also with words! This is not an example, either, when the public, the Austrian population has to listen, as is sometimes argued here or what is expressed in the media. This has not deserved the house, it has not deserved the population, it has not deserved our home country. So on the matter, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e8941	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e8963	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can conclude seamlessly with my colleague Otto Pendlan. Mr Stadler, on your comments today – I am very glad that this is not only happening in committee, but also that you are dropping the mask here – I really have to say: What you are giving of yourself and what some members of the opposition in the committee have given to statements is not to be overlooked in human contempt. [[Abg. Oillinger: Well, you just have to think about your statements!]] Mr Stadler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Stadler, for his excellent report. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You're talking about government crime, you're talking about sausagesmemmel fractions, you're talking about crimes at the head of the federal government and more. I'll tell you: I'll turn that back! It is not acceptable, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You said here, Mr Stadler, that at the beginning and when the Committee of Inquiry was set up, the ÖVP should have had certain speculations about who will not get everything right now. – Mr Stadler, there is also a little back to the truth! What was the debate at the beginning of the Committee of Inquiry? We had a paragraph in the Constitutional Protection Report, which pointed out that there was apparently an influence of foreign intelligence services on Parliament. That's all there was to know. We had a representative of Westenthal, who here in plenary aged on the fact that he had been treated unlawfully by the prosecutor's office. We had a FPÖ, which has aged over the fact that the Green Group is using a criminal police officer to find out about them to stifle them. These were the issues that were on the table, and these accusations, ladies and gentlemen, were strong enough that all the political groups in this House felt that this justified a committee of inquiry. This is the Genesis of the Committee – and not any speculation that you are trying to push the ÖVP into the shoes, Mr Stadler. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am still of the opinion, Mr Westenthaler, that in some respects you have not been properly treated by the public prosecutor. I am still of the opinion that it was not all right for your employees to be identified by the public prosecutor's side because a broadcast on your parliamentary speech and on your press conference took place. That wasn't all right! But I am also convinced that there was no misbehavior of the Minister that there was no guidance from the minister – but it was a misbehavior of the prosecutor! We have produced this, and this will have consequences, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who then bears the political responsibility for the prosecutor's office?]] That's absurd, a minister on the dock – I'm sorry! – to rely on the information bank if it has been shown that there was no political influence, but if prosecutors have acted on their own responsibility here! Then we will have to consider whether legalism is not to be carried out in the new criminal order a clearer distinction between the accused concept and the concept of witnesses. That is why a political theatre, a political show against former or acting ministers, is simply and simply not available – and there we do not let ourselves be blackmailed by the opposition! I would like to say this very clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: You make this a show!]] As regards the statement that we would now “turn off” the committee, I really ask you to look into the archives. We established a roadmap in the Committee of Inquiry at the beginning – which has remained unanswered – of the entire opposition. At the outset, we have identified which topics are about to take place in the Committee of Inquiry. We have actually agreed that, with good will, we will deal with the Examining Committee before Christmas, and we are now approaching the last subject of investigation, which is the influence of a foreign intelligence service on Parliament. Mr Stadler, you said the untruth again in your speech a few minutes ago. You have said that a committee date is currently scheduled for this. – That’s not true! We have now decided on two committee dates, which we want to hear about Kazakhstan. The public can understand very quickly and very easily that you are constantly trying, through articulated untruths, to discredit the government parties. I'll turn that back! We take the subject matter seriously, and we will bring the Committee to a close. A new committee is by no means necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e9078	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e9099	Mr President. High house! Today it is 91. Anniversary of the democratic Republic's proclamation. I have seen that representatives of the Social Democrats before the monument next to the House, before Adler, Reumann, Pernerstorfer, who are called by sides of Social Democracy as the founder of the Republic, which in general was certainly the same, laid down cranes and honoured them. I believe, on the one hand, that the democratic Republic or the calling for it among the founders of the Republic, on the other, we do not make a real political contribution to democracy in the present time. And that's a shame. We therefore do not render a good service to parliamentarianism as a whole, and it is also to be questioned what value the memory of the founding fathers ultimately has. I don't mind pointing out that the Republican proclaimer was then Dr. Franz Dinghofer was, probably or certainly even a spiritual and political ancestor of the Freedom Party, who has no monument next to the house. To sum up, I don't conjure up the idea that a lot of burgers can be found under it, and there, too, social democracy should remember the roots of Adler, Pernerstorfer, Dinghofer and many more. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The citizens of the time can't be compared to today's!]] It can't have been so bad what goals they've pursued. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To you too, Mr Schüssel, there would be much to say. The representatives of the Christian Socialists have still made a request to introduce a democratic republic, not a democratic one, but a democratic monarchy. Fortunately, this request did not receive a majority in the National Assembly. You also need to highlight this contribution in history. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we stand here today and discuss ministerial responsibility, which is always taken seriously only in time-conjunction phases – a committee of inquiry can, of course, only be addressed in the past in its findings – and if one gives this ministerial responsibility or the investigation of political responsibility a rejection with the hint that the ministers responsible for it are no longer at work today, then this will be schooling in the future and hardly any more will be questioned by a minister. That's a general prevention before that. But there are also arguments as to why we have to hear the ministers in the Committee of Inquiry, because there is something like a legal hearing that should be granted to someone, namely when an organisation or the entire organisational unit is examined. The responsible minister, who is currently in office, should have the opportunity to speak and answer the Committee and to share his view of things. It is simply too little if the ministers responsible always tell us what is the matter outside of Parliament in the Small Talk. We want this to be dealt with in the parliamentary way. And if it's about organizational failure, then that's to be checked, then you have to check what's going on. In essence, this Committee of Inquiry, which has become clear today, will be the first in history to hear those who are politically responsible. That is a shame, and for that the Freedom Party is not to have. I also assume that we can essentially reform what we want. If, in the future, we are taking such an attitude to parliamentaryism and to participation in the control of execution, it is not really important which regulatory reform is made in relation to committee of inquiry, because if in the end only more comes out that the minority can block the majority in the investigation order in the future, then we are not going to have to do so either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e9170	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e9191	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll read you a quote – I quote: The Committee of Inquiry has supported many important points. In the Public Prosecutor's Office, arbitrary actions have taken place that deny any rule of law. This is a threat to the rule of law. - Quote. Do you know who said that, Mr. Cap? Lock ears and eyes too! The President of this House, Barbara Prammer, said that. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: She was never in committee!]] Barbara Prammer said that the events which the investigative committee has promoted pose a threat to the rule of law. Another quote: The procedure at Peter Westenthal's mobile surveillance has nothing to do with the rule of law. - Quote. Who said that? Where is he? – The SPÖ Group leader in the Investigation Committee, Otto Pendl. And now I'm asking you a question because it's about political responsibility. It's a violation of the prosecutors we have promoted, witness tricks, a breach of constitution. Against mandates of the House who have spoken here, who have given this pult speech, it has been determined that employees who have published this speech have been determined – in breach of the Austrian federal constitution. There is a targeted persecution and diffamation of system-critical people in this country, above all members of the opposition, and there is a targeted view of the prosecutors of representatives of the government parties or of government politicians. And now I'm asking you: Who, if not the ministers, is responsible: the Minister for Justice for the Rule of Law and the Minister for the Interior for Internal Security? Both bear the responsibility for this! Mr Amon, it is therefore only a good right, even the duty of a committee of inquiry, which is questioning political responsibility, to listen to this as well. This is not a matter of “an prosecutor” because it is not a question of “transfering” a minister, whether he has made any mistake, or of bringing the woman Bandion-Ortner to account for the fact that a prosecutor has taken Kronawetter out such things and broken the law. And for that, because you, Mr Amon, say that the Minister has nothing to do with this at all, this prosecutor has been withdrawn from all other proceedings. That was the consequence of this breach of law. So the ministry and the minister also have a political responsibility. And that's what we want to question. We have the right and we also have the damn duty as parliamentarians, who have been commissioned by this National Council to hear ministers, to get their information, how they keep it with such errors, and how they want to turn it off in the future. This is actually the task of such a committee of inquiry, Mr Amon. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Intervention in fundamental and personality rights – is that all the results of the investigation committee? Is there no political responsibility at all? Is all this supposed to be up to the Chief Prosecutor or to the official or perhaps only to the prosecutor himself? Is this all going to be up there? – I say to you: No, no, no, Let me tell you again: There is a systematic political persecution of members of the opposition using legal means in this country – and this system, this system of abuse, bears the color black. It is contempt that we have before such an operation. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This system wears the color black – this is the result! And it is terrible that you are participating, Mrs Prammer, you who are directing us to be a threat to the rule of law, which has been demonstrated in the Investigation Committee. You put your ears on and – and I say this in full consciousness – you can be led by this People's Party at the Nosenring through the Committee of Inquiry and here through the National Council Hall?- Oh, my God! At the Banking Investigation Committee, you were presented by SPÖ, your ministers were invited to the no longer, and when it came to ÖVP, it was over. And the same thing is happening now in this committee of inquiry. – We do not like this system! The speech by Dr. Schüssel of today was also significant. He came out, obviously as a victim, you noticed, he was nervous. And do you know what he did from this speaker's desk? – He didn’t stop arguing. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] He did not stop, but he immediately began to threaten again and said: Because of Mr Stadler's speech, I will complain that we will remove immunity. – The next threat that came from the power system of the blacks. [[Abg. Grossruck: From the rule of law!]] Mr Schüssel, I hope you also know the Constitution, Article 33 B-VG, that here is probably the only place in the Republic where you can complain what you want, there are no persecutions. And that is also good, and it should remain so protected, because the EIA is no longer sure how far the persecution of politically displeasing opposition politicians is enough. We don't like that! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Take it easy! – That’s unbearable, Molterer, bowl, plassnik: The boulevard of broken dreams is based on an earlier time of government. This is really pretty slow intolerable. We don't like that anyway! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Knock You don't even mention to us, I give you the good tip, don't knock on us when it comes to necessary two-thirds majority when it comes to the extension of the bank package or when it comes to any measures! We are not available for this! We will not make you the robbers for your abuse of power in this Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e9324	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e9356	Ladies and gentlemen! This is a black day for Parliament today in every sense of the word. Nevertheless, I would like to thank two Members because, contrary to Mr Stadler, I believe that Mr Bartenstein and Mr Donnerbauer from ÖVP have seriously tried to find a parliamentary solution to the very difficult situation in the committee of inquiry. I have wrongly assumed that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports its Committee president. – Excuse me for this nativity, will not happen again, but it is nevertheless important to me to say – because it is also important for the future – that there are other votes in the EIA and that the EIA on the question of how this Parliament should be treated is, fortunately, no more a monolithic block. This is very, very important, because we will also need representatives of the ÖVP to defend Parliament and parliamentary rights against abuse by the current leadership of the Austrian People's Party. And one be to Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll in the main book written: The walls of Parliament are still thicker than the head of Mr Vice-Chancellor. [[Abg. Grosz: Who knows!]] And if he tries to run through the walls of this Parliament with his head, then he will “crush” his head – and not just his head – properly, I guarantee you from this speaker’s mouth.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e9393	Mr President, I think we agree that we do not give up our names!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e9409	No, I don't think you can mistreat the name of the vice chancellor either. I think it's excluded. Ladies and gentlemen, what is it about? – We have – and this does not even contradict Mr Amon – in the Committee of Inquiry that there has been a system of governmental justice for many years, almost exclusively by the Austrian People’s Party. How does this system work? – There are offences committed at the top of resorts, not just the interior resort, most likely. This goes from abuse of office to post-business to open corruption. These are clearly offences of the Criminal Code, these are political crimes – political crimes that are deprived of a system of governmental justice of any judicial persecution. This investigative committee notes that there is an intolerable system in the middle of the public prosecutor's office in Vienna, which is incompatible with the principles of the rule of law – and at this point the ÖVP says: Stop! – This is no wonder, it has always been, but why do the colleagues from the SPÖ say at the same time: Stop, absolutely!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Strache: There could be something to cover at SPÖ!]] Why can't the Kazakhstan affair, which according to the most recent documents points towards ÖVP – that's not so much about the SPÖ, because it's about the ÖVP, the traces leading to St. Pölten to the "greater" pröll and his friends – be investigated? Why does the SPÖ say: Stop!Unknown term [[Abg. Strache: Because there may be something in the basement too!]] It is about the Office of Defense that the illegal surveillance of Eurofighter opponents by the Military Defense Office has taken place for political reasons. – That was not the interest of the SPÖ, that was the interest of the Austrian People’s Party, but the SPÖ says: Stop! I wonder slowly: What does the SPÖ cost in this house? If I look into my wallet, that's the wrong place. I have to get into my pants bag and check it out, and there I find 1 € and 20 cents. – 1 € and 20 cents cost the SPÖ in the parliamentary investigation committee, because that is the equivalent of a sausage semitrailer. We've come that far! Do you really want to say that Are you presenting yourself today as a smaller, politically smaller coalition partner as a sausagesmemmel party? – That’s a shame, and you don’t need it! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] I appeal to the Members of the Social Democracy: Think about it! You are required to oppose § 42 para. 2 to violate the Rules of Procedure Act, namely to amend, reassume, only with the votes of the Government Group, a unanimously adopted decision of the Committee of Inquiry on the subject matter of evidence which is now to be liquidated. - That's illegal! Only with our voices, with every single voice of the opposition can be reassumed. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] I'm appealing to you: Come on. You return to the principles of the laws which apply here, to defend parliamentary democracy against the Austrian People's Party and against the abuse of power!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e9480	The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote. Debates of the European Parliament Stadler, Dr. Graf, Dr. Pilz on the establishment of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[15:54:12]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-12-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00044_d8e9519	At today's meeting, self-employed applications 852/A(E) to 858/A(E) have been submitted. Questions 3641/J to 3683/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is for Wednesday, 18. November 9 a.m. and will be called up in writing. I would draw attention to the fact that a meeting will be held in Local V following this meeting of the Immunities Committee. This meeting is closed.
