ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4636	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The official protocols of the 23. Meeting of 20, 26, 27, 28 and 29. ==References== Meeting of 29. On 1 May 2009, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Board of Directors. On today's day, the following Members have been reported as preventing: May. Molterer, Praßl, Dr. Haimbuchner and Mag. Lunacek. [[09:05:48]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4670	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: ‘Education policy priorities for the 2009/2010 school year’ I announce that the current hour will be broadcast live by ORF from 9.05 a.m. to 10.15 p.m. First of all, Mr Mayer has spoken. I give him the floor and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4700	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about the education policy of the coming years, it is to be said that it is gratifying that the thunderstorm clouds formed during the budgetary negotiations on education policy are lost. A radiant blue sky gives insight into a modern and offensive education policy – as I mean – an educational policy that was brought to a reform by Minister of Education Claudia Schmied two years ago. One of the core parts of this reform course is more small-group work and the reduction of the maximum number of students. In this area alone, a three-digit million amount will be swallowed up for the next school year. More small-group education and a reduction in the number of students means improved opportunities for teachers to promote the children individually. When financial gaps occurred in the budget negotiations, Claudia Schmied's creativity did not exhausted itself in selling cuts as success – freely according to the motto: It could have come even worse! as we were used to from the previous years, or for example: Economic crisis and budget deficit and other developments require a tightening of the belt! – No, for the Minister, it was clear that the reforms started must continue and that Parliament has decided improvements must be implemented with great emphasis. Claudia Schmied did not accept a stop-and-go solution, she demanded a continuous development of education reform. I'm glad she stayed so stubborn. Markus Leeb recently said in the “NEWS” – I quote –: When we talk about school, “we talk about the opportunities of the coming generations of our country. It is about the qualification, about jobs and about the chance of Austria, prosperity and social peace. The basis of all of this is education.” Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: Let us be proud that we can say that Austria is going its way towards modern and contemporary education consistently – to the benefit of the coming generations and to ensure prosperity for all in our country! Ladies and gentlemen! Another centrepiece in Claudia Schmied's educational reform is the New Secondary School. The aim of this “New Secondary School” school experiment is to reform the rigid structures in secondary education. Let me point out the urgent need for this reform to an example. I am always working as a jumper, as a supply reserve in schools, and I would like to give you a brief example of a special school where I have taught. It was a 9th grade class with nine students, including an Albanian, two Turkish migrants, a girl from an educational home who was taught there, a Turkish girl, a Croatian girl, a Legathenic and two neo-Nazis who were already in court. The teacher there was prevented for several weeks. I was at this school for a few days and did not have this pressure to necessarily pass on the teaching material, and I had the opportunity to deal with the social environment and with how the students were doing and how they came to this school. It became apparent: One had a weakness in German, the other in mathematics, the other came from a class of a school where I had taught a few weeks before, which was simply overcrowded because the proportion of migrants was too high. That's what they said: Okay, the one who's weakest, who doesn't "pack" it, we just give it to the special school! – This is Select on the lowest level. They just gave the students together. You think that if you combined all these misdevelopments or all the students who cannot be integrated into their own school form because of the structures so far, you would have done something good. – The exact opposite is the case! When you look at where the parents of these children come from, you can see that they come from remote layers. And if you can discuss with them and sit with them and take advantage of other ways of teaching, you can see that in truth none of these students – not one of them! – in such a special form, but quite well and best – on better conditions – would be integrable! – And it’s about these opportunities! On the other hand, if you teach in an integration class in a primary school, you can experience that the most talented, the best in these classes, are involved in teaching the weaker students, helping them and promoting them. If you see how everyone benefits from it – the best ones, the good ones, because they are involved here and get even better – then I don't need a scientific study, ladies and gentlemen, to realize that we need something new about the forms of teaching. And that is exactly the way that Claudia Schmied wants to go with this initiative “New Middle School” and goes: to try out what is possible, what are the best alternatives for our children, for the 10- to 14-year-olds! – This is the central challenge. And that's what this development is all about. It must no longer be, and we cannot afford to have a three-year-old for 10-14-year-olds, in the meantime even four-member system through the new reforms: Special school, primary school with already existing different forms, AHS sub-level and the Neue Mittelschule. It is very important that we use the next three to four years to further develop this school. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also cannot afford to conduct a separate field of special school, a separate area of primary school, a separate area of AHS under-level – all for the same age form of the 10- to 14-year-olds. If you now know that there are countries – I do not want to bore you with Finland or other countries – where it has been recognized in time that only a common training can open this way, then we must go this way. Even for those who consider this only nationally, it is clear that with four different types of school you do not have the best care for one and the same age group of students. We need to recognize the signs of time, the appropriate measures, and individual, special promotions. Where the children have weaknesses, we need to promote them. Where they have strengths, we must demand them more. These are the opportunities that open up a new common school. And I am firmly convinced that at the end of this debate the New Secondary School will be: Yes, everyone is looking for this way together, how we can improve training for this age group! On these two rigid forms, the special school and the primary school: I am pleased if I am also from AHS colleagues or the education spokesperson himself of the Greens, who was himself AHS director – and I know how the situation is at the AHS sub-level, hear that even for the supposedly talented at this age it is a great opportunity to be taught together with others, and that these opportunities are not least affected. [[Abg. Grandruck: What?]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: It's!]] I therefore ask all those interested in education, no, I ask all Members to: Take part in Claudia Schmied's offensive educational reform for the benefit of the coming generations, for the benefit of our children and children, and thus to ensure prosperity for all in our society! [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, where is it?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's where... already at the beginning!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the next school year – I am convinced of this – will be another important step in the right direction, namely for a child-friendly school.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4816	The Federal Minister for Education, Art and Culture has now come forward for an introductory opinion. I'll give her the word. – Ms Minister, the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4861	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The budget decision is clear, the education reform continues. These are the two central sentences for me. And one thing for me is quite clear: Now, trust and constructive cooperation are important, trust and constructive cooperation, especially between the school partners and me, especially within the Federal Government. Two and a half years ago, we started and have often – and I can stress this – taken important steps with a broad majority of parliamentarians to improve education in our country. We need to continue this path – I am convinced of it. We are constantly discussing the objectives of our educational efforts in Parliament, including in the teaching committee. I would like to stress and underline the three most important for us. We need the best education for all children. We must pay attention to the talents and talents, because – and I also say this with a very clear focus on performance – top performance needs a broad basis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second point is the big and now valid goal: more equal opportunities. Education diplomas are no longer allowed – and I think you can't repeat that often enough! – depending on the wallet, on the financial status, on the origin of the parents. Everything else – Elmar Mayer has also emphasized it – would be socially unfair and – I say this now also as an economist – economically and economically not acceptable. Third point: We need to create the connection to international excellence. Austria is in a location competition. Trained, motivated citizens are our main sources of strength, our main resources. And that is why it is also quite clear that the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Industry are clearly on the side of education reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have already mentioned that we have achieved improvements step by step in the last two and a half years. I am pleased that I can stand here today and say that this path will continue. The educational budget is increased from €6.8 billion to €7.2 billion. In addition, the liquidity bridge achieved in the compromise – I call it that – comes in the order of € 423 million. I am saying here and now, and in all its clarity, that the support of the BIG-Mites – and I would like to express this clearly – is, of course, only a bridge of the liquidity needs of my resort, and therefore – and I am saying this now – hard budget negotiations will be in the house in 2010. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where is the bridge going? What about the bridge?]] For me, investment in the school buildings is particularly important. It has been successful to reserve €600 million for construction investments for the years 2009 and 2010. And I will be very careful to ensure that these 71 projects are implemented in Austria as planned. This means a better infrastructure for our children, but also has very important regional effects in the field of employment, especially in the construction and construction sectors. Most of the additional budget, ladies and gentlemen, goes into employment, goes into the employment of teachers and teachers. At the end of the 2009/2010 school year, when I go back to the beginning, i.e. two and a half years ago, the reform covers 7 000 posts of teachers who improve the offer for our children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They asked where the measures where the projects are, where the reform is. I would like to briefly present to you the ten most important operational measures for the 2009/2010 school year, and I assume that we will also discuss this programme of measures in detail in the teaching committee. The first point has already been mentioned, and it is probably the biggest, even financially, effort on education policy for decades: Reduction of the maximum number of students. As early as September 2009, we will reach the third year in the field of primary schools, primary schools, polytechnic schools and also the AHS sub-level. In the final development, 880 000 pupils will benefit from this measure. This is important and necessary because we have to rely on individualising and increasing the care of our children, especially in the area of migration, especially in the area of child care. Another point in this context is for me vocational schools, where we also need to set up small groups in order to ensure better education there and above all to improve the communicative skills of our students. Second point: Reduction of drop-out quotas, especially in the ninth level. There we will continue the way, namely to introduce small-group teaching, consistently, in German, mathematics and in each case a school-typical guide. There too we reach very, very many students: 31 000 pupils will benefit from this measure. Third point – and I have already been able to carry out this again and again here in the House of Lords: Language promotion. I don't get tired to say, every child who visits school in Austria has to master the German language well. That is why I am very glad that, in a very short time, State Secretary Marek has been able to agree with the federal states that we are setting up the compulsory kindergarten year. As a result, I expect to be very, very much in the direction of improving the school entrance phase, and I would also like to extend the funding programmes in the field of mother tongue teaching. Fourth point: New secondary school, has already been mentioned. Factim is – and I am simply pleased about that – that now 20 000 students attend this school throughout Austria at more than 240 locations. We're going to evaluate very carefully. In the last novel to § 7a, we have also agreed on the evaluation even more precisely by law, in order to then, probably in 2013, make appropriate decisions. Fifth point: day care. That's what I'm totally relying on. We have set up a seal of goodness. Schools must strive for this seal of goodness. You must submit and then get it for two years. On the basis of these quality criteria, additional funds are also going to the compulsory school area to achieve modern day care, namely variety and motivation, for children. Movement, learning, sport and culture are to be anchored there. The relevant resources are provided for. At the last Presidential Conference of the Councils of State Schools, I also motivated the schools to make an effort. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Sixth point: Finally, I would like to start by implementing my great concern of setting up management structures in schools. It's unimaginable for me how a director, a director, can coordinate 100 teachers and teachers. Here we need management structures. This is also a concern to me, just as violence prevention as the seventh point, the success project Teaching and Matura or the stronger promotion of private schools, because important impulses come from there. Tenth and last points: Better education advice and decision-making. In conclusion, I would like to put three major strategic issues into space, which we then need to discuss in depth: new, contemporary service law, service and remuneration law. Second point: Administrative reform, i.e. more responsibility, especially at the school location, and third point: modern joint training for all in the teaching profession. There are great efforts in front of us. I am looking forward to the discussion and cooperation with you and may say that I take your criticism seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4991	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Rudas. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5015	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied, I'm going to be You have little criticism because I think that never before has there been as much in the field of education as you have been since you were Minister of Education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In which society we live, we decide in the classroom. We must therefore ask ourselves the question: What society do we want to live in? I want to live in a happy, team-capable, knowledge-loving and performance-friendly society. And that is exactly the task of education policy. It is important in education policy to know where to go, not only in the short term, but above all in the long term. In 2009 and 2010, important steps will be taken in this direction, important steps towards equal opportunities, better permeability and, of course, top performance. And in these steps, party-political dogmas must not play a role. Here only the next generation, the children, the pupils have to play a role. Here we must not think in old patterns, not speak of prevention, or - often quoted - demand a return to the state, but here we have to think only of how we can shape education policies in such a way that our students feel comfortable, but also develop society, become better, people can better deal with each other. That is why I would like to draw out a number of points that are of particular importance to you – you have already mentioned them, Mrs Minister. The common secondary school for more equal opportunities. I know that a lot of prejudices are being worked on. I know there's fears about what it's like if you want to change something. I think only – and this is what you can see when you look around internationally – that today a school other than a common middle school is not at all possible, because we cannot allow ten years of age to have opportunities other than the same because of their origin or their family conditions, or because they are not as far as others at the age of ten, and because they take just one or two years longer, they have other opportunities than the same age. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] - You don't have to roar in there like that. You don't need to get nervous, because you don't have to use party-political elbow tactics, there's no reason at all, but you should consider, as I mean, just rational thinking, what's best for children, what's best for society, and develop good programs together. In almost all the federal states – completely independent of the party of the head of state or the head of state – the New Central School has a tremendous urge. The students want to go there, and the parents are looking for free places. That is to say, we evaluate it, but be open, regardless of what party book we, ladies and gentlemen, each have. Another important point I would like to highlight is that society is changing, that family conditions are changing – and there is a need for a system of education to change. Here, let's be honest. Let's go after it. That's why I think the expansion of day care is particularly important, but I'm still putting a little pressure on it to speed up even more. That's hugely important. Today, the fact that I have been successful in school as a student may not depend on whether the parents can make further assistance. It must not depend on whether a parent has enough time, but also knowledge and energy to learn with the children. Education needs to take place in school, education at home. Ladies and gentlemen, a very essential aspect of education policy is also to teach students critical thinking because I want to live in a society that is critical. Therefore, the subject of political education is important to me, but it is even more important to allow critical thinking in school, and this can be the case in mathematics, history, German, French and English. Let us encourage the students, whom we still define as particularly striking in our education system today! Perhaps they are not conspicuous, but they become politically active once, but perhaps they just become critical people, and I think that is extremely important because a society can only develop with critical thinking. I look forward to the school years 2009/2010. Mrs Minister, I congratulate you on your reformer. Social democracy is behind you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5113	Mr Amon has now come to speak. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5134	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I can actually go directly to the comments made by my colleague Mag. Join Rudas, who said that the New Secondary School is a success model. I am glad that this idea of testing the New Secondary School is implemented in various forms and variants in Austria. There's a sense, that's good. And I am actually very grateful for the fact that the Federal Minister made it very clear that in 2013 we will evaluate all these models. Then we'll decide what we're going to do in the regular school system and what we're not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A little bit of this was like a correction of the Elmar Mayer's statements, which have missed the openness you, Mrs Rudas, too, because Elmar Mayer has already known what comes out in the end, namely the common school. And exactly these dogmas should not be put at the beginning if you want to have an open process. [[Abg. Neugebauer: This is a reasonable process!]] I would very much plead for that, let's look at what comes out at the end, and then we decide. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Education policy – that is important to me – is not self-interest, but education policy – and we are fully committed to it – has the goal of ensuring the best possible framework conditions for our children and young people. Education policy has the task of ensuring that we have the best teachers in schools. That is why it is important – and the Federal Government acknowledges this – to further develop teacher training. We have taken an important step with the new educational universities. Now a working group will make further proposals for how to develop teacher training in the context of the Bologna process by the end of the year, because it is also necessary – the Minister of State has already mentioned this – to motivate teachers, therefore also to have a middle level of leadership at schools. In fact, it's difficult for a director to control everything. There are positive examples, for example in higher education schools with departmental responsibilities and more. I believe that this can also be a very interesting model for other school types, because we need the best teachers, which is undoubtedly necessary. Only the best teachers are able to ensure an individualised offer for the students. An important step in this direction has also been to reduce the number of students. In fact, it is so – and there will be very concrete discussions in the foreseeable future – that a new right of service will be negotiated, which will meet the current challenges accordingly. It is necessary that we further develop afternoon care in qualitative terms, on a voluntary basis, for what Mrs Rudas meant – I have written it – is: Education is supposed to take place in school, education at home. – I cannot sign that 100%, because I believe that both sides will have to take place on both sides. Education may also take place at home and education also at school, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But of course we also have family structures today, which are designed to ensure that more and more educational tasks are carried into school. We also need to guarantee and ensure that teachers are given the means by which they can also carry out this educational task. I believe that we must also ensure that what makes our schools strong makes them strong in international comparison, and we must strengthen the autonomy of the sites. I think it is a right approach to enable subsidiary decisions to be closer to people, to be closer to those concerned. That's, like I mean, a good concept. Therefore, a no to overstate centralization, but a yes to a centralization where it has a quality assurance effect. We want to force that subsidiarity. In my opinion, we will be able to develop an excellent Austrian education system as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5211	Mr Rosenkranz is now speaking at 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5232	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the audience series and in front of the televisions! Mrs Rudas said that the future of society is beginning in the classroom. – I think this from the mouth of a representative of a self-representing party is more frightening, because the future of society starts in the family anyway. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But this might fit in with a system that a film director mentioned only in February in the “Club 2” that meant that the children should be taken away as quickly as possible and brought into a school system so that they could get away from the Austrian alcoholic parents and perhaps not get political in any form even to the right. . This is what is clearly behind these statements, this society which the SPÖ and Mrs Rudas wish to see. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Rudas also said that there was no need to look at the party's book in the debate on education. – I can calm you, in the Austrian educational debate there is only one red and a black party book, none else. We would be very happy if you were finally to start avoiding in your own stable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Mayer, who was obviously the first speaker of the initiative, has presented to us here how well Mrs Federal Minister Schmied has worked so far, and has asked questions on the subject: What will be focused on in the 2009/2010 school year? Well, it's good if you look in at the end of a school year a little bit into the next school year, but it would have been interesting if at the end of a school year you also distributed the grades for the old school year. That's where I have to ask: What did the Austrians actually have to do with the educational debate? What has actually been implemented? And I can tell you: It's not much, actually nothing! On the contrary: We remember the construction site, the two-month standstill in the debate, where the first pages of the magazines were filled, but education policy did not actually take place. Today, in a ten-point programme or in three additional strategic points, we are told by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs what has already been done in the 2008 government programme, i.e. nothing new and no implementation so far. That is to say, the question is quite acceptable, which is to be changed next year, if you already hear from the coalition partner that you will have to find yourself on one issue or another, such as centralism versus subsidiarity. I believe that the reforms are not particularly rapid and It is a matter of serious concern, but it must be discussed for a very long time. The Federal Minister has already said that it should go step by step, but the steps are getting smaller and smaller, as she has said herself, and that is actually unacceptable. The educational debate, which has already taken place during the first PISA studies, has not moved from the point of view, although it would be absolutely necessary, particularly in points such as the question of the chances of Austrian children or violence in schools. Nothing is currently being implemented, although it is unbearable how violence between children and parents is increasing. In itself, we are moving the issues just ahead of us, and there is no concrete solution offered in any form. The eternal recitation of the government programme will certainly not bring Austria to what was said at the outset, namely that we should find the link to the European Summit in the field of education. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, to colleague Mayer, who meant that the thunderstorm clouds have gone away and the sky is bright blue: A little more blue policy would clearly do better to the country than black thunder clouds with morning and evening red, which only takes a short time.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5320	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5342	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Today, when the SPÖ welcomes the progress made in education policy in the current hour, and Mr Mayer says that the thunderstorm clouds have gone away, I would like to say: The much rejoiced reduction in the maximum number of students has already been established under another government in 2006. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Although the maximum number of students is now being reduced, in contrast to the programme at the time, small schools and micro-schools in the countries – the “nearly provision” of education policy – are closed in rural areas. You should say that too! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This present hour cannot conceal the fact that this coalition of SPÖ and ÖVP is a coalition of the non-reformers, the refusal of reform in the field of sustainable social security – see, for example, the long-standing health reform! – but also in the field of education policy. As far as education policy is concerned, I recall the blamable discussion at two hours of additional work for teachers who took place during the budget debate and who overlaid the real problems: that we do not have an efficient school administration and no efficient school management, that we do not yet have a uniform right to serve and pay, and that we are also lagging behind with the integration work. But the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has also been left in the rain. I am therefore pleased that today, during this discussion, the Federal Chancellor is also sitting on the government bank, because so far I have not felt that education is the main issue. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The school is still an ideological playing field in this coalition, and this can be seen from the example of the common school of the 6- to 15-year-olds. The ÖVP is blocking. Mr Amon said in his speech – how did he express it? – one should wait, stop, try with regard to this common school; the others see great salvation in this common school, on the other hand. – I say: All of this is carried out on the back of the children who deserved the best chances. Just an early selection takes away very, very many chances. This government has now agreed on a new form of cooperation. After offensive disputes in the budget and a little cuddles in between, blockade is now announced. The best example is the central matura, which is opposed to the novelle of the university law: We have agreed on the smallest common denominator, namely a protocol note, so that this issue will come to Parliament even before the summer. That's why I'm saying: This is an evidence of poverty in education policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to end by addressing an area that you have not solved, which is therefore still unresolved. Mrs Bundesminister, you have now said that it is socially unfair if the children who come from a parent house, where it is perhaps not as easy financially to get good education, do not have the same opportunities. – I am of your opinion, but why do You're not against this after-sales disease? Thousands of students in Austria need remedial assistance and can only do this if the parents get deeply in the bag. € 150 million is spent annually for re-help. It is 36 million € in Upper Austria alone. And in the end, only those families and those parents who have a corresponding financial power can afford to do so. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Bundesminister, there is an acute need for action! Since 2007, a request from the BZÖ has been made by Parliament to provide further assistance in the course of teaching, to provide assistance during the last weeks of the holidays, similar to the one in Finland in the last few years. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Free!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You could also use the school autonomous days to help and support young people accordingly. Coming to the end: Dear Mrs Federal Minister, it is not enough to say constantly that you want the best education for all children if you do not eliminate these real construction sites. What this coalition has so far shown, especially in education policy, is a step forward, two steps back. I do not have the hope that it will be different in the future, because you will unfortunately continue to suffocate God in education and thus play out the opportunities of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5427	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is now speaking at 5 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5449	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The language picture of the thunderstorm clouds and the blue sky has already stimulated some speakers to further metaphors. So, the blue education policy, which we want, I believe, does not, because you have blocked everything in recent weeks and months, which in some way would have been a progress in the right direction, and rather back in authoritarian principles of the 19th century. ==References== [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: You “believe” that you don’t want it, but you don’t know!]] - We don't want to. The fact that Mr Haubner’s language picture of the Minister for Education “was left in the rain” applies, I believe, that the whole of Austria could confirm that it was 100 percent. The Minister of Education was left to 100 percent in the rain by both her own head of the party, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and in particular by the Minister of Finance and Vice-Cancellor, and this is the major failure of the ÖVP. We now have an educational minister who is tied to the hands and feet in her ministry and can never be sure whether the coalition partner will fall back on her. – This is the situation in education policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the schools a lot of porcelain was smashed. Of course, an educational reform requires that all those who work in the education system, the partners, also the teachers take on one strand and are convinced of it. As you would like to get under control after these months of the dispute, I am a mystery – and above all, how you would like to get hold of this under the existing budgetary requirements. We are now discussing education policy after the budget has been decided – it is no longer ironic, cynical. The essential prerequisites would have been to do the only important and right thing at the time of the economic crisis, to attack the giant building site education and to create a priority in the budget for school, for kindergartens and for universities. - You didn't do that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now we experience again and again a Minister of Education, who is making herself here and praying down a wish concert that can always pray down the things that everyone likes and in which she has many supporters, but in no way can announcing a realization, for example with the maximum number of students. I do not want to list the entire list of shortcomings again, but I do not know how you really want to achieve this reduction in the next few years. The high-level schools with a class number of students in a 35, 36, 37 children and young people and with a drop-out rate of more than 50 percent are the major areas of problem that you will certainly not be able to cope with in the next two or three years with the budget – with the existing shackles that have been created to you. You also mentioned the construction programme: The construction programme has been reworked and shortened in order to end the teacher's dispute; the right to the disabled has been removed. On the fair right to pay – we have, I believe, heard ten or 15 years ago – you say that you are now beginning the negotiations. So that after the last ten to 15 years, you still have confidence in taking the word “administrative reform” into your mouth is extremely courageous. The President of the Court of Auditors is working with teeth and claws to ensure that there is a willingness at all to take up administrative reform. So you see that the construction site is very large, and if you say that you take the criticism seriously, I think you do. Only your reaction to it is white helplessness, and it would not be so sad and gloomy if it were not to be carried out in the next five years on the back of children and young people. Neither in the strategy plan nor in the budget for the next two years, there are concrete approaches to solving the problem of educational construction site, and this is the political responsibility that not only affects you but, above all, the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There has already been a discussion about where the future of society lies, and on this point I would like to add another thesis, which has not yet been mentioned: namely, that especially the kindergarten and the early childhood area is the most important thing when it comes to the backpack for life. In the kindergarten, the backpack is packed for the lives of children and young people, and if one does not look at this area more responsibly and no more resources – from more space and more money to better education and pay, especially for the women who work in this field – and does not introduce education plan and no more responsibility for education, then one has not yet understood the fundamental problem. That's your job, Mrs. Education Minister. In folk school it is too late; the backpack for life is packed in kindergarten. We will decide tomorrow on an Article 15a agreement, which represents a tiny step in the right direction, but if we continue at this pace, it will take at least 20 to 25 years for us to be at an international level in this field, namely kindergarten support and kindergarten education, if we do not fall back even further. That's still missing in your bouquet! However, a bouquet alone is not enough, beautiful enough, but rather a little more budgetary and political responsibility of the gentlemen in the government – the chancellor and the vice chancellor – would be urgently necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5518	Now comes Mrs Mag. Kuntzl with 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5540	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that after years of downtime in recent years, fresh winds have finally come into education policy. Of course, we have to step by step, and this makes the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs very consistent. However, there is such a fixed pattern in educational discussions here in the house, which means that the competence of the family and that of the school – with regard to the education and the education of children – is always played against each other in a case. It's about the way someone gets to the speaker's desk and says, There the school has an important task in the education and equipment of our children!, and then someone else, mainly from the ranks of the BZÖ and the Freeman, comes out and says: You want to take the children away from the parents! – This is really an absurd affair, ladies and gentlemen, because both the school and the parents have an important task to fulfil in the education and education of children, and in the ideal case, it works harmoniously and wonderfully together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and MEPs of the Greens]] Good. But what if it doesn't work? – There’s no bad intention at all to disregard the parents’ home or anything else behind it, but if you look at data when you look at families, you’ll find that even today in Austria, children who grow up in a city where parents are well trained have much better chances of higher education, and there is a need to help to support all children and to promote them individually through the school – according to their abilities and abilities. Of course, the trained educators and educators have a very crucial and important task of giving our children – and everyone in this country – an important foundation for their lives, so that all children, no matter what family they are born into, are well equipped for their later life. In this direction, the Federal Minister is now moving step by step – with the education policy she is doing here. It is about promoting the children more individually – promoting the weak, demanding the strong as it is so beautiful – and this path in important small steps, which will then become more and more and more and more of which will benefit more and more children to continue consistently. Yes, there are more smaller classes than in recent years – of course not all are changed from today to tomorrow, unfortunately this is not happening, but step by step it is done. In recent years it has been the first and second classes, and in the next school year the third classes are added. More and more children in small groups are being encouraged and taught – mainly in the main subjects – so that teachers also have the opportunity to address the children better and to strengthen and promote them where they have problems and where their talents lie. The New Secondary School is a success model. There are already 800 classes, 20 000 students will be next year, and, yes, Mr Amon, the goal is to get there with the New Middle School, where most of the other countries are already, namely that we do not continue to play fate with nine-year-old children. A teacher or a teacher should no longer have to play fate by saying: Although I can't estimate exactly where the skills and talents of the child will develop, as an individual I have to say now which child needs to go to or may go to school. We really are one of the last countries in Europe and beyond, and we want to join European standards in the sense of our children. [[Abg. May. Hakl: That's wrong!]] I am also very pleased that tomorrow we will decide on the mandatory contribution-free last kindergarten, because early promotion is the most important base and we really need to involve and support all children accordingly, so that in the last kindergarten year they will have a correspondingly good equipment and starting position for the school and thus for the further way of life.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5605	Mrs Dr Karl is now speaking at 5 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5626	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Education and knowledge are the basis for each person's personal and professional success. Given this importance, I think it is completely wrong to reduce educational discussions purely on structural issues, as happens very often. Rather, when we talk about education, the quality, diversity and attractiveness of education must be a priority. However, today's education system must, above all, recognise the performance of the individual at an early stage and demand and promote it specifically. In addition, it must enable lifelong learning and provide all fair opportunities and good prospects for further life from kindergarten to university. For higher education, this means that the goal must continue to be to increase the number of graduates in order to increase the level of education of the Austrian population. To this end, in addition to the general development of quality assurance in studies, the preparation for individual choice of studies in the school should be supported in order to improve the transition from school to tertiary. This clearly requires intensive cooperation between secondary and higher education. How do we imagine such cooperations? – It is, of course, intended to extend and network the advisory, educational and information range for students and maturants. In particular, new forms of individual support are to be promoted. In concrete terms, this is about the tutorial, i.e. students accompany students to courses at universities, or about coaching, where experienced students accompany younger students beyond the beginner's studies in the course of their studies. Of particular importance in this context is, of course, the study entry and orientation phase planned with the novelle of the University Law 2002. This initial phase is intended to give students an overview of the content and course of their studies and is therefore intended to enable them to get an idea of their studies as early as possible, in order to decide as early as possible whether the choice of studies was the right one. The planned university law Novelle is also a very important step towards further implementation of the Bologna structure at the Austrian universities. All studies will be able to be converted into Bachelor's and Master's studies in the future. This should also apply to those studies where this is currently excluded by law, such as for teaching studies. The opportunities opened up to combine Bachelor's studies with various professional or non-special, national or international master's studies will enable students to develop their tertiary training and thus their educational and development careers individually. The overall aim is to ensure that this individual design of education careers passes through the entire education system, through the entire school system and then, of course, through the higher education system. Mrs Federal Minister Schmied mentioned that we must pay attention to the talents and talents. This is also a very important concern of Federal Minister Hahn. For example, he wants to implement talent funding by allowing candidates to be admitted to doctoral studies or PhD studies immediately after the entry into force of the University Law Novelle, following the Bachelor's degree course. That is to say, it is intended to open up the possibility for particularly talented people to skip the Master's degree. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, in our education system, of course, quality must also be a priority. I have already mentioned the further development of quality assurance in the study. Quality assurance is of particular importance to us, however, especially in connection with the training of teachers. My colleague Werner Amon has already mentioned that we need to train the best teachers for our students. In a press release of 11 May, Ms. Schmied, Federal Minister In December, the teachers are the key Cells. We must therefore train them accordingly and give them the necessary armor. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the achievement of this objective must be our all concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5701	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. 5-minute gardener. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5723	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear young people on top of the ranks! The fact that cultural and educational policies are currently united in a sector would be a great opportunity to work together. Austria is a cultural country. The cultural wealth, the attractiveness, the pride, the glory: All of this is based on our cultural heritage! The same applies to our education, and in these two areas we must remain the world's peak or, if that is no longer given. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In both areas, therefore, particular attention must also be paid to times of crisis, as a continuation of our cultural heritage as well as the training of our youth at the highest level will in future offer Austria not only ideas but also economic prosperity. The course is set today, today it is decided how Austria will look in ten, in twenty years. We can claim to be international if we are to optimally expand these two fields of culture and education and remain the world's peak or regain education policy. We have opera houses, theatres, orchestras, world-class festivals, but we also need to do everything we can to ensure that this highest quality is guaranteed, and that requires the best possible training of our youth. The musical education, and above all the musical education, starts already in kindergarten and has to form a solid part in the folk school. The folk school teacher was the cultural promoter in Austria for decades, and the folk school teacher or the folk school teacher must be able to do so again, because it is quite simply necessary that beyond the mastery of basic techniques – it is of course that our children can do it – also what matters to us our identity is carried on. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] The music has also built up a large identity pillar in Austria. There are many great cultural achievements in the history of humanity, but what Vienna’s classics have done here in Austria in the last centuries, when the great composers almost gave themselves the doorknock, is unique, is unique in the world. We have the obligation to pass this on to later generations, and we also have the duty – and there you are called, Mrs Minister – to ensure that. Here you have to take responsibility. A survey on the subject of musical education is too little, it is also too little if you only announce lip confessions here, but it has to be done. I remember in the government statement a feasibility study for pop music was announced. I mean, that's not just too little, it's even a shame. This must not happen at all in a cultural country like Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister, you are responsible for the fact that this cultural property also remains educational goods, starting from the kindergarten through public schools, music schools, middle and higher education, this must be taught at the highest level. But of all this, Mrs Minister, I have not heard anything from you – I have been very careful – even today, not even on your ten points. Where is the great reform of education really going? In addition to the number of lessons, I have not been able to see any form of content. And I have not been able to see what the cultural speaker of the Social Democrats has said today, that there is a heart in education policy. I only recognize piecework, I only recognize flickwerk – and that is too little for Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What do you think, Mrs. Minister, that youth needs to be in the future? – Of course, the basic techniques must be there, but they must also be trained to lead a meaningful, fulfilled life. And that must go beyond mere materialism. Knowledge transfer, as I said, is of course. What else does she need? – Today I have heard a little appeal from my colleague Rudas, but only critical students are too few, and more needs to be offered. An ethical basic attitude can also be learned in schools, moral action can be enabled, virtues can also be developed in schools. This basic training is possible in all educational institutions, based on what has been created in Europe in the last centuries, yes, thousands of years of knowledge that we can be proud of and that we must pass on. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly point to two lines in our Federal anthem. It means here: “Home you are great sons, people, gracious for the beautiful.” – Let’s take this seriously!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5805	Now comes Mr Mag. Widmann speaking. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5826	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Current hour with the theme “Education policy priorities for the school year 2009/2010”. Listen, listen! Current hour! I wonder, What is up-to-date about this discussion? These are the topics that we discussed a year ago and which we will still discuss with this government – there you don't need to be a great fortune teller – in two years. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And ‘education policy priorities’? – You should have taken the title ‘educational lightweights’ or ‘educational emergency and standstill’, at least you would have met the issue. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Education is the raw material of our children, the raw material for our future – and this government does not do much to improve and increase this raw material. The state education system has been addressed, but the state education system is only a part of education. In addition, there is – to address colleague Kuntzl – the family, there is society, there are educational institutions. I know, the left-left block may only see the state in the foreground, the left-right block perhaps only the families, we see the education discussion a little more overall, because we also have appropriate concepts from the BZÖ. I should like to highlight one thing very clearly here: If tomorrow the Free Kindergarten is decided to be celebrated here by the SPÖ and in Upper Austria by the ÖVP, then I can only say: Thank you, Mr. Landeshuptmann Dr. Jörg Haider!, because in Carinthia there has been the Free Kindergarten for three years. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] An education system must have certain criteria for success, including quality as well as quantity, and it must be done in time for our children to receive appropriate training in good time. Whether this is the right to serve, whether it is the administrative reform, whether it is the training of teachers themselves, which is to be questioned whether this is the internationalization, whether it is the infrastructure, whether it is the schools – here is much to do. One has the impression that this government really sleeps, sleeps things and ultimately fails, because as long as students are taught in container classes in Austria as long as it comes to school and as long as one small school after another is closed, one cannot say that this is a education that deserves the word “future”. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, I should like to draw the attention of colleagues from the ÖVP to the UG-Novelle, because education policy is also a serious failure because we as parliamentarians do not have a draft to this day. There is no expert hearing, there is no involvement of those concerned, not the students, not the professors, nor the Parliament, because, as we heard in a discussion, the ÖVP and SPÖ will already judge with their close majority of 55 percent. So – listen, listen! – the parties, the ÖVP and the SPÖ will judge this, not the democratic representatives of the people. It's actually a shame that we're discussing things that we haven't got to face today, except that there's no review, although it's about important things like the composition of the bodies at the universities or the selection of rectors. Finally, a committee remains where we will decide in 30, 40 minutes a UG novelle – that is, ÖVP and SPÖ; of us there is a rejection – which contains important things that have not been discussed. Today, when I read in a daily newspaper that the woman's education ministers are willing to “change” – she exchange the central matura with a footnote against the UG novelle – I wonder: What is it for an educational policy based not on the opinion of experts, not on the opinion of parents, not on the opinion of teachers and professors, but on a political bazaar, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The head of government, whether Vice-Chancellor Pröll or Faymann, is not here again, because education policy is a subject in the government programme, but not in real policy. [[Abg. Großruck: Pröll is here!]] He is sitting on the back of the bank, but he does not belong there, he should be in the front line in education policy, Mr. Van der ÖVP. I'd expect that, but he won't. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you are addressing another field of science, research, I remember the CERN theater, where a minister was braked in his field of action, where the SPÖ, together with the black head of state, had risen to the brake, because he tried to take us out of international top research. And I wonder if these are the right ways. What remains is beautiful words here from the speaker's desk, here from the government bank, in the government statement, in the press conferences, in newspaper reports, but no concrete actions for our country. I think Austria, that people, as well as our children, deserve something better to have an education policy that brings us forward in Europe, the future that gives us opportunities – and not a red and black educational site. [[OBJECTIVES]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5911	The next item is Mr Dr. Walser's speech at 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5932	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! In a few weeks again, 8,000 Austrian pupils will end their education career after nine years of schooling, 8,000 students who cannot read meaningfully. Year after year, there are, in fact, educational scandals in this country, because if we don't feel that scandal, what teachers tell us year after year, who think they'd take in apprentices, but they can't do it because the graduates of our compulsory schools can't read meaningfully, then what? One third of all students, one third of all 15-year-olds in our country, belong to the risk group. This is actually a declaration of bankruptcy for our school system, and we need urgent action here. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have actually decided on a reform to which you, Mr Amon, obviously do not confess again. You said today that the target was not specified. You have criticized your colleagues from the SPÖ, which is what the New Middle School is trying to do. There it is quite clear – you have decided in Parliament – that the objective is to postpone the educational career decision. Well, it's clear. The goal of the New Middle School is not to separate the children at the age of nine and a half years, but at the age of 14. You don't want to know anything about that now, and that's quite, very typical of the work in this government. Mrs Minister, I accept that you have recognized the problems everywhere – but they will not be solved, because what we have here on school attempts is, as your colleague Amon did correctly, anything but an attempt towards common school of the 10- to 14-year-olds. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let me also address another educational scandal. Every year, about 50,000 Austrian students do not reach the educational goal. Some 40 000 of these must actually be repeated for a year. This is a human disaster, which is a special class failure for these students, which is a difficult matter for their families; it is problematic for the whole environment. It is by the way also a national economic mistake, which is happening here in our country, because the year to repeat costs the state, only when we take the primary schools, 6 900 €, 6 900 € for a pedagogical senseless undertaking, at the vocational schools it costs 11 500 €. We do that year after year. We have a repetitious quota of about 4.5 percent in our country. Countries with modern education policy systems – Finland, the Scandinavian countries – have such a rate of well below 1 percent; Finland has about 0.4 percent. I am not saying that it can never be useful to repeat a class, in quite rare cases it may make sense, but just as we have it, built into this system, so it is pointless. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No one can explain why a student, a student, who, we say, in mathematics has a not enough, but excellent achievements in French, English, Latin or other subjects, should repeat one year, why the These subjects are also to be repeated, which he/she has completed excellently. That doesn't make sense. This inhibits the development of these pupils. We have to come to a system that gives students curiosity, we have to come to a system where we do not ask students: What do you know? What don't you know? This is not the central question, curiosity is what we need to implement in our education system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I hope that the prophecy of your party colleague, former city council president Kurt Scholz, does not come true, which paints very gloomy pictures of the development of school politics, which this year called “annus horribilis”, as a terrible year of education policy. Here, I believe, we need courage, not the courage that Mr Scholz has attested to you – he has spoken of “sucidal courage”; as far as we do not want to go – we need courage, we need the eye forward. We must finally address these reforms. It's urgent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6008	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:20:01]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 1267/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6029	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question 1198/J by Dr Moser, colleagues on climate-related measures in the construction of housing by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. [[10:20:31]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6053	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6204	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 3, 8 and 9 as well as 15 to 18 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Mr Oellinger spoke on business. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6242	Madam President. On Saturday, the 13th of this month, in the Josefstadt, from the socialist youth, it has a walk – as it was called – through the 8th. District given, which was initially disturbed by people who were disguised, black disguised, were adjusted with Smiley masks. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not a Rules of Procedure! He has to make a request!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6301	Mr deputies, the objections which come here as intermediate calls are entitled. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He has to make an application!]] You have made a statement on business treatment, so come on. In the matter of Rules of Procedure, please do not mention this word.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6347	Madam President, I am on the matter. Among the assembled black-adjusted people who called Nazi-parols such as “national and social”, was also the parliamentary employee of President Graf Sebastian Ploner. [[Abg. What are you doing, Madam President?]] [[Abg. That's a joke! What kind of party-oriented Presidency is this, Madam President?]] [[Call BZÖ: Where is the application?]] Today we read in the newspaper: Graf defends employees. Madam President, I therefore call on you, in the presidential capacity, to discuss this statement by Mr Graf or the behaviour of Mr Ploner, who took part in a Nazi assembly. [[Abg. That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a classic abuse!]] I would ask you, the Presidents, except President Graf, who has already delivered an opinion, to give an opinion and to discuss the President-in-Office of Parliament. [[Abg. That's inconceivable!]] Madam President. I'm saying that because...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6440	Mr President, I have heard your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6467	Madam President. It's about: In the debate on National Socialist Re-activism, Parliament is playing a large, important...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6489	Mr President, I am now closing your remarks on business. You've expressed your concern. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. Oils.]] For business treatment: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6530	Madam President. As far as my previous speaker is concerned, I would like to begin by calling for a special presidial to stop this abuse of the Rules of Procedure by the Greens once and for all, and by giving the President and the two other members of the Bureau, namely the Second and Third Presidents, a handhold that can be turned off early when such abuse is done with the Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6566	Mr Stadler, your request is not a request, you know, because there can be no request for a special presidial. But you can be assured that the topic that took place here today... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you want a session break?]] That's my decision! But You can be assured that this issue will be discussed in the Presidential Assembly. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I think it's better if we can elect the presidents!]] We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6611	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. A day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP: 108 minutes, FPÖ: 96 minutes as well as BZÖ and greens per 84 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:25:31]] 1. Point Report by the Health Committee on the Government Template (149 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Medical Law 1998 (12. Medical Law Novelle (181 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment 492/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the acquisition of additional specialist qualifications for children's medicine (182 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment No 519/A(E) by Mrs Kurt Grünewald, Members of the Committee on Children's Medicine: Acquisition of previously unconsidered additional qualifications (183 d.e.c.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6681	We come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein spoke with a desired speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6708	Madam President. Federal Minister! A word on what has just happened here, Madam President: It is already to be questioned whether you are not overburdened with the presidency if you allow party-political agitation here by green and red. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It should be asked whether you, Madam President, are not a little overburdened with the Presidency! You have to make this question happen. It cannot be that the House is abused for purely party-political agitation and polemics directed against individuals, against individual employees and against the Freedom Party. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Your employees are those who damage the house!]] What you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and of the Reds, are doing here is human hatred of the most ugly way! You are abusing this High House! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You abuse the High House for your left-left ideological ideas, and it would be best for you to introduce people here. – This is human hatred what you are doing! [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] However, the Committee on Health's reports are now on the agenda, first of all the Novelle Medical Law. We will agree to this Novelle Medical Law because it brings more transparency, it makes the system a little more flexible, and recognition is also guaranteed. In cooperation with this matter, two further applications will be made, two oppositional applications dealing with child medicine, which, in fact, have been concerned with creating additional qualifications here. Ladies and gentlemen! Parents of sick and chronically ill children or parents of children with rare diseases often have enormous strains to take. It is often very difficult for them to find a suitable doctor, which is very often an obstacle course. For this very reason, it was also a concern for us to do something for these people, for these parents. We just want to help these parents get a little bit easier. Unfortunately, God has rejected the majority in this House, which was totally incomprehensible to me – and this with a reasoning that was not at all understandable. Mrs Oberhauser said that it was purely populism. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is not populism! There is a gender-friendly medicine to which we confess, but nothing special for children. The only ones who don't have a lobby in this high house in any way that nobody has, these are the children. We don't do anything for these people. I mean, these are the weakest in our society, and exactly for these we should finally make a little effort. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The training regulation, which I also take note of, which entered into force, does not make new additional qualifications necessary, so to speak, because it has not yet been evaluated. That's not a reason for me. Now the parents need support, now these people need support, and it is not that it is now a fantasy that has grown in the heads of the opposition party, but it is especially parents organizations that have been raising these demands for years. Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly what it is: If you have a child with a rare disease, then the run starts, you need relief, and that can only be done if we define additional qualifications in the field of child medicine. I think it's interesting that the SPÖ just rejects this vehement, because you're just here from the SPÖ as if you're the representatives of the social weak. It is precisely these people who are affected by this: People who cannot defend themselves so well, people who have little to no access to education and who do not always know where to turn. Whenever it is said that the “experts advise”, I have to ask what we still have a government for. We are constantly hearing about the “expert opinions”. – I can only say: Let's put this government down and make an expert government if you take over everything that experts tell you! At least a little self-responsible would be to a government, and it would be really good if this government would sometimes also have a little more courage. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Especially now that we are negotiating a new health reform, it would have been a very important and essential point to involve children at last and to pay attention to what special needs for children, for families, for parents.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6797	Madam President, Mr Belakovich, I would recommend that you read § 59 of the Rules of Procedure and, above all, the explanations to this effect. There is the possibility of an application for business treatment and a word on business treatment. This distinction shall be made. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for any restrictions, especially in the case of the word on business. If we want something else here, we have to find it in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I would like to have said that clearly at this point. However, I would have the opportunity to give a call for order over the input phase of your statements. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The next item is Mrs Oberhauser's speech at 5 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6830	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In advance, I would like to see the question of dealing with Mr Graf's staff or the person of Mr Graf's President in other ways and not dependent on discussing the Rules of Procedure in this case. [[Abg. Vilimsky: On the topic!]] I would be very pleased to hear something from our coalition partner, in an objectively neutral and clear position. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: Listen, hear!]] Mrs Belakovich, we are here in Parliament, and I believe you have not missed the fact that representatives of different parties are sitting here. That means where, if not here, party political arguments are brought – and hopefully in a quiet and objective manner, and not in the excitement as you have previously provided. [[Abg. But not within the framework of the Rules of Procedure!]] Now to the Medical Law Novelle. As has already been said, this will make a number of things more transparent; it will create recognition directives and also improve the training of doctors. In this context, equal to the so-called 1 : 1 training, i.e. if a training post is added, a specialist must also be required to do so. All of us, I believe, have been concerned by colleagues in recent years, that it is very difficult to find specialists and to guarantee training, especially in cases where there are shortcomings. This is taken into account by defining more or less a deficiency by the Minister’s regulation – and can nevertheless be trained in the event of a defect. With this new law, however, there is also a lot being done for our students, for example, the famulature is re-regulated. The training situation has changed, the quality of training has changed – and in this way, the requirements that are placed in the hospital on famulants have changed. This is taken into account by taking into account this Novelle Medical Law by simply providing assistance in the case of medical services for the performance of individual medical services. This, as I believe, will be fair to the state of affairs, and our future fellow doctors can work in legal security. Now on the two motions for resolutions to which Mrs Belakovich spoke and meant that I thought populism was for me. Mrs Belakovich, you are very much quoting the UN Convention on Children's Rights in your motion for a resolution, but on the grounds that the freedom of health policy is awarded the best health care for all citizens. – See, Mrs Belakovich, this is different from us, because we confess to the best health care for all the people living in our country. First of all, in the motion for a resolution to quote the UN Convention on Children's Rights, but further down then to say quite clearly, migrants who do not yet have Austrian citizenship, we do not want to provide medical care... [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where's that?]] “All citizens” in your request, therefore, my question: And what about the others?- Oh, my God! The FPÖ requirement for own health insurance for non-residents is well known and is still rejected by us in the strongest form. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Is enough money there! It's all going out! Yeah, you're right.]] On the issue of the recognition of the subjects mentioned by you: In 2006 we approved a large subject canon of paediatric additional compartments, and we look at how this will come about. You of the FPÖ are always those who require you to visit a doctor first and then the next doctor, and you always refer to e-card abuse and so on. For example, when parents visit a pediatrician, I say that this pediatrician – even without specification on pediatric urology or radiology – knows exactly which colleague has experience in which field and properly assigns. Last: I would like you, Mrs Belakovich, to say here, on the part of the FPÖ, that there is a clear commitment to gender medicine, because I also remember other statements by the FPÖ here: “Genderwahn”, “General Insanity” and so on. I am therefore very pleased that the FPÖ has now included the word Gender positively in its vocabulary and now welcomes it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6968	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6989	Madam President. Minister! High house! This novel to the Medical Law serves the recognition of professional qualifications. The additional qualifications for children's medicine also play a major role in this. Mrs. Belakovich said she wanted to help the parents. – We want to help primarily the children who are suffering, and we need to ensure the best health care for our children. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Austria is only 18 in terms of the health care of the children of 21 countries studied internationally. Job. We are therefore required to create better conditions for health care. For this purpose, highly trained doctors are needed in the fields of childhood medicine, in urology, radiology, orthopaedics, as well as in child psychology, which is also very important. As far as child psychology is concerned, it would be possible to determine in studies related to the mother-child passport in which environment the children live and to look at: Is there violence in the family, is there alcoholism of a parent or another addiction? What is the social environment like? Such an investigation could already filter out “risk-children” – under quotation marks – and should then be given greater attention and better care from kindergarten, at the latest, but from the age of school. The constant increase in child crime, alcohol abuse or violence in school makes it absolutely necessary to provide psychological care for children in school, but this care should also be carried on at home. Ladies and gentlemen, think about it: Firemen, rescue men as well as other people who had to experience severe traumatic experiences are immediately provided with psychological care, but children have to deal with their problems alone! Therefore: Let us help our children to cope with their problems through mental care through best - trained child psychologists!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7044	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7066	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! We are now talking about the medical law novelle, and not for ourselves a world-moving novel, but again a little jigsaw puzzle to make a little better. In particular, I have dealt with the issue of flaw supply. It is, of course, necessary that, if there is a lack of psychiatrists, orthopaedics or ophthalmologists in different regions, the Minister says that we need to train more so that we can even ensure a supply. Planning safety is already very important, because if not trained, you can make so many plans later, but then there is no provision. I would, however, like to take the time to highlight the health issue in general. I have experienced several days ago the latest number of e-card benefits. 102 million medical visits by Austrians took place which used their e-card, i.e. on average, each Austrian has contact with the health care system eight times a year. If you are still counting the 16 million ambulance contacts and the 2.5 million hospital stays, you will find a huge number of treatments that are being carried out in Austria. Now, of course, one could ask the question: Is that necessary? – I hear from healthy people again and again: Well, the doctors are so happy to order their patients. – Like the patients would like to sit warm! I'll tell you one thing: I've been in my career, that's 25 years – I've only looked younger than I really am – I've never experienced a patient in the 25 years when I'm a family doctor, who'll be happy if he gets a syringe or if he has to wait an hour for the doctor's treatment. This supply in Austria has brought us forward. What are we in the ranking, critically? – We are commuting between one and three in the world rankings, where we can fight over everything. With regard to costs, the public share has remained constant for ten years. So I stay with you, we don't have a cost explosion in Austria, we have a power explosion. I feel very important in health care – you can't repeat that often enough – the following: Health care is the same as solidarity: Healthy pay for the sick, young for the elderly, rich for the poor. If that wasn't the case, the whole system would fall apart. I think we can be proud of the Austrian system, no matter how we stand for it! I have experienced time and again – often in Parliament – colleagues who have asked if this was necessary, but they should introduce higher restraints, and so on. The crucial point is: If you're healthy, it doesn't matter to you; if you're sick, it's really fast, it's often about seconds. I've never experienced a patient, whether it's manager, or parliamentarian, no matter who said: I don't want care, I want to stay sick. Do with me what you want! I believe that the essential point of health care – down from the Minister of Health – is that we plan to make sure that in the case of X, which a healthy person cannot determine, all resources are available, Alzheimer's care is right, heart attack is right and so on. In this sense, everything that is said here is very important, too, what the colleague from the FPÖ has said is important. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] Of course, we must do everything we can to ensure that we have the best starting conditions for the children. They can't defend themselves at all. You can't blame them for a bad way of life. We have to ask: What does a child need? What can we do to alleviate the disability of a child in such a way that it will not have to go through life too badly later on? We can't understand everything, we can't heal everything, but we can do a lot of things. I'm rather a quiet guy, what's going on is health policy. I do not think that we must constantly declare Austria a major reform site. This gives rise to the appearance that it is not all right. I think that we have to turn on many, many small screws – no matter where. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] When we turn on these screws, we will continue to keep this top rank we have that we have to fight every day. I think we are better placed than the Americans, where Barack Obama is desperate to move forward. However, we are also better placed than the Federal Republic of Germany, where 30 percent of a graduate's year of medical study now runs away – at least 3,000 doctors a year – who disappear to Norway or England. 2 000 practices in East Germany can no longer be re-occupied. Do you know what it means when there's no doctor at all? – We don’t need to talk about care shortages. Is it not a shame that in Germany as much as €600 a month must be paid so that physicians decide to become a family doctor? – So in this sense, we are an island of the Blessed. Help everyone that we continue to receive a good system for our patients!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7144	Mr Grünewald has now come up with a seven-minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7165	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Two pre-sets: Madam President, we Greens and I do not think you are overwhelmed. And the question of who abuses Parliament here, yes, is precisely the one that we wanted to discuss enough and sustainable. She'd have to answer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Medical Law Novelle is good and necessary, brings many partial improvements, allows mobility, internationality, comparability of qualifications and also brings legal certainty. That's reason enough to say yes to her. A small drops of wormwood is: Among other things, they respond to EU directives and regulations from 2003 to 2005. Thus, a world record of speed is not, but perhaps reason enough to think about the fact that, in modern times, resorts should also be equipped in such a financial and personal way so that they can meet the requirements of time more easily and effortlessly than before. I do not think it is necessary to present savings packages here. This is required by every place of business. But if it does not help us in Austria and does not improve the legal situation, it is a boomerang that we should avoid as far as possible. What is remarkable is that there is also a lot to be done for long-term residents from third countries and their members in terms of professional recognition and qualifications. Furthermore, there are now minimum standards for refugees and asylum seekers that they can work in the medical field. In this respect, arrangements were made which were extremely desirable. Also interesting is the following: In recent years, the training of doctors at the universities has been significantly modernised and improved, and has become more practical. It was therefore necessary to ensure that practical activities and the pursuit of medical activities were also subject to liability. This has also been done to a large extent in this new law. The instrument of teaching practices and their position in the framework of education for general medical professionals or specialists has also become more attractive and better. I think it is very positive that one registers what has long been known that there are gaps. In individual special subjects of medicine, the necessary number of young doctors cannot be produced and trained. Sensational – but in a negative sense – is the lack of trained specialists for psychiatry, especially in the field of child and youth psy Chiarie. I think it is simply a scandal that no one/s child and youth psychiatrist is working with cash offices throughout the West of Austria, so that waiting and standing times can arise until diagnosis, in particular until stationary therapy can last one year and longer. I think there is a need for reform, and it must be made clear. I also expect something to happen here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, the law is not decisive in the field of medical education. Paper, even if laws are written on him, is well known to be patient. I wouldn't have this patience. It's about looking at what really happens in practice, because it can't be that we decide something here – and then out of sight, out of sense, without later looking at how it is in practice. Legions of gymnastics have been storming for years and complaining about their poor training. That's got a lot of reasons. In part, the staff key in hospital hospitals, where the training takes place, is that the health professionals have already reached a very high level of loadability, not to say, at the burn-out limit. Turnout doctors, if they ask questions, fall immediately annoying and disturb the operation. That sounds funny, but it is. Trainers as ballasts, to feel annoying, can't be a targeting policy of improved medical training! Working hours that are exceeded in more than half of the hospitals do not allow time to be spent during normal, regular weekly working hours. I believe that here the Ministry should already see that monopolies of countries, of national leaders, of hospitals, of the medical board and of various organisations at training facilities, of training times are repeatedly required. This oneness, that look-out as before, must not be allowed anymore. Last but not least, I regret that they were rejected, the special compartments and additives in the field of pediatrics. I know it all has its limits, you can also demand something exaggerating. In internal medicine, where adults are treated, there are dozens of subjects – I can't even list all externally now without forgetting one or two subjects – that take into account the specialization and progress of medicine. It is a March that a doctor of a special subject dominates the subject from A to Z. Some can claim that, but that's wrong. If this does not happen in childhood medicine, it is already a sign that – apparently not the legislator or others – children who are not worth it or do not have those lobbys as they have adults. I know that the Ministry and the countries are concerned that if you create more specialists, you also need to set up departments in the hospitals for children with liver and intestinal diseases, for children with hormonal disorders, for pediatric urology and so on. - No! You don't have to do that in every hospital. But in those centres of central care and top-notch care, such departments should be taken into account, and that is only if we introduce this additive specialist. There is no need for hundreds of them, but some in Austria already do at certain centres. I hope that we will experience this during this legislative period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7254	Next speaker: Federal Minister Stöger. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7274	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners! When we did the 12th. Doctoral Law Novelle is presenting to Parliament today, and it should also be decided, it should already be noted that we are taking many small steps here, but that we have a great impact on the care of patients. We want to ensure that the training of doctors is facilitated by mutual accounting and that the mobility of doctors is increased. We want to ensure that new subjects, which of course also need to be flaws, and also the well-known gaps that have been addressed, grant special access to training, that we extend the principle of one to a specialist in the field of training. We have also set a focus which makes it possible to facilitate the training in dentistry with the double abduction. It is not yet necessary to have double-approbation in the decision on admission to training. In reality, this will make it easier for students to study in their course. Officecratic barriers are being removed to ensure that we have good health care. We have also improved the role of the emulsifiers. In order to deepen their education and experience, they can learn in concrete terms from the patient. In total, it is the goal of the 12. Medical Law Novelle, the training situation and thus improve the long-term care of patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7311	Mr Spindelberger has now come to speak with 4 minutes of desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7333	Madam President. Federal Minister! I would like to start where Mr Rasinger has stopped. I too often have the impression that everything in health care is constantly felt sick and bad. Without me now restoring any direct comparisons with other European countries, I would like to point out that in Austria we are one of the world's leading countries in the field of medical care, quality and general health care. For me, therefore, the Novelle Medical Law is the next step in the right direction to further improve our health system. Nevertheless, I would like to look at a few points in more detail. The implementation of the EU Directive 36 from 2005 finally gives us a more uniform, transparent and flexible system of recognition of professional qualifications. In addition, it has also succeeded in solving some problems in the field of professional law as a whole. At the suggestion of the Austrian Medical Chamber, as we all know, the so-called double-approbation, the requirement for the completion of human medicine and dentistry in the special field of oral, jaw and facial surgery, should be adapted insofar as in the future the completion of dentistry studies should not be more necessary for the start of a specialist training, but only for the start of the specialist examination. To sum up, this innovative medical law brings important professional adjustments and, in particular, serves - as already mentioned - the implementation of the EU Directive on the recognition of cross-border professional qualifications. The essential thing is that legal certainty is adapted to the formulation provisions of reality. The legal arrangements for the acquisition of additional qualifications for children's medicine, as you have requested, Dr. Grünewald, and also you, from FPÖ, were not rejected for “populism” but because, we have already clearly and clearly said this in the Health Committee, we adopted a training regulation in 2006 which included eight additional subjects. As the students who started their studies at the time and still fall under this training regulation are not finished with this study, it makes sense to wait for what develops from this study. We do not want this enlargement at this time, because we do not know whether it is useful at this time. We should first look at the structural quality criteria, where the additional qualifications we all need – we know – are necessary before we take the appropriate steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7372	Mr Karlsböck is now speaking at a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7393	Madam President. Minister! High house! The Novelle Medical Law – as has been mentioned several times today – which we will decide today finally brings the long-term overdue legal certainty and the necessary adaptation in many areas of medicine. There is enormous importance for doctors, dentists, but also for the incoming doctors, the students. In this context, I would like to highlight the very consensual and amical mood in the preparation of this legislative novel. There has really been a more or less one-to-one acceptance of all the proposals of the professional representation. This is a very positive one, and it is a real hope for the proposed health reform that, unlike last year, a consensusal and amical approach to the sections will be maintained. But all praise must be said that this whole adaptation, which is now being decided here, took 15 years. I know this from my own experience: 15 years has required certain adaptations, which are small but have great effects, and the doctors who act in the health field have found themselves in a fairly indisputable legal uncertainty at that time. First of all, we have the adaptation to double-approbation of dentists/kief surgeons. – In the last 15 years, one has to say that training as a brain surgeon has been an obstacle course, and we must be glad to have found young people in this country who have gone this way. The second is training in gaps and the circumstances defined in the training regulations, which has to be a defect. There, too, one must emphasize positively, the law has closed a really large gap, because smaller departments – that is, already the word “fail” – have a lower number of specialists and are simply different from large subjects, such as surgery or an internal one. The most important thing, however, seems to me to be the point in the law that regulates the mutual recognition of diplomas and other evidence of training for doctors and students from other countries and third countries. This law, as has already been said, creates a more uniform, transparent and flexible system for the recognition of professional qualifications, but we must not use this as an excuse or as a pretext if we are to combat the shortage of doctors in the future. I have the feeling that in our country it is not yet realized that we are focusing on a medical shortage. We still have a different situation right now, but in a few years it will look different. We now have the following options to counter this: We can just go here and increase the study rate for incoming physicians. We can build universities. We can hire foreign doctors, or, as Norway, we can send students abroad who are willing to study, for which the costs are taken over by the ministry. That would be – admittedly – a transitional solution, but, as I said, other countries do, and this proposal has one in itself: It limits the costs. Then: We know it won't work to increase the study rates because the resources are not there. Building universities? – You know, we're demanding a fourth Med Union in Linz. We will not get such a one in foreseeable years either. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] And we do not want us to bring in third-country nationals, especially foreign doctors, now under this law, and to deny our own young people training here, only because of a certain slutting. If we send our young people to study abroad, it is recommended that they also replace the training costs in an appropriate way. Everything else would be a social numerus clausus. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, a point which is not mentioned here in this law, but which is very important to me, and which is to be addressed here, namely the constant and persistent violation of law in the field of working time for hospital doctors. This is regulated by the medical law, we have these laws – but these laws are not complied with in reality! I also demand from this body that you, as the supervisory authority, have an eye on it and act in the face of these shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7467	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7488	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! In principle, it should be said that the current changes in the Medical Law of 1998 have also been widely accepted in the countries. In the context of the implementation of EU directives, the innovation of the Medical Law is undergoing a new classification that generally improves. For the first time, non-EEA citizens are granted the right to exercise professionally, i.e. if they have a permanent residence permit in Austria. Another aspect is to detach the double study as a specialist in oral, jaw and facial surgery. The oral, jaw and facial surgery is a special medical discipline that requires both the completion of the study of dentistry and human medicine in accordance with the medical law. It follows the training of an institution for oral, jaw and facial surgery as well as the training in surgical secondary subjects. The tasks of this discipline are diverse. With this novelle, the completion of dental studies is no longer a prerequisite for the start of the specialist training, but is only necessary for the registration in the medical list as a specialist. This creates a period of time for students. The completion of the double course is facilitated and is likely to counteract a future shortage in this professional group. It is also a innovation that the Ministry of Health is given the right to lay down, by means of a regulation, so-called gaps, in which time is limited to the very strict formal conditions of the Medical Law on Vocational Training. Furthermore, in the Medical Act, the 1 : 1 rule for the approval of training posts will be depleted, i.e. the training officer plus the specialist, plus another specialist. This has been demanded for a long time. Furthermore, it should be noted that there are improvements for the young, trained doctors, namely for the emulsifiers, and that there is more legal certainty here. This innovation is to be welcomed, because it devastates problems, makes a lot easier and more unbureaucratic and creates more legal certainty.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7539	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's requests. We shall come to the vote on the draft law concerning 12. Medical law Novelle and title and entrance in 181 of the supplements. Ladies and gentlemen! If you are in favour of this bill, I ask for a sign of approval. - That's accepted. We shall come to the third reading. If you also agree to the draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 182 of the supplements. If you give this your consent, I ask for a sign. - That's accepted. We come to the vote on the request from the Health Committee to take note of his report 183 of the supplements. If you give your consent to this, I ask for a sign to be given. - That's accepted. [[11:08:04]] 4. Point Report by the Health Committee on the Government Template (155 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the pharmaceutical law, the tissue safety law, the import of medicinal products law 2002 and the Health and Nutritional Safety Act (184 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7610	We're coming to 4. Agenda item. The report has been abandoned. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Johann Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7640	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Law, which we are discussing now, has already been adopted unanimously in the Committee. It is about amending the pharmacovigilance law, the tissue safety law, the import of medicinal products law and the health and nutrition safety law. The pharmacovigilance law specifically deals with conceptual adaptations, with a new regulation in the transport of cells, with the extension of inspection possibilities by the Federal Office for Safety in Health, and with the Health and Food Safety Act, it is about scientific advice on the development programme of medicinal products. This should also be the task of the Federal Office for Safety in Health. This is a matter on which there is little discussion in and for itself; the law will be passed unanimously. However, allow me to point out a number of issues, especially in view of the discussion we have held and have already conducted in the Subcommittee of the Sports Committee on Doping. Under item 1 of the agenda, we have just decided to amend the Medical Law. We are now discussing matters that are also related to the Doping discussion, and under item 6 a novel to the Blood Security Act will be discussed. In view of the scandals in Austria, but also in Germany – I am thinking only of the University Hospital Freiburg with systematic, organized doping by doctors – in connection with doping. The Medicines Act, which we decide today, clears one thing, with regard to the monitoring of food suspected of being medicinal products or containing substances on the ban list, and with regard to the seizure of doping agents. There will be clear rules here. There will also be clear rules on the participation of public security bodies in checks carried out by the Federal Office for Safety and Health and by the institutions pursuant to § 76a Medicines Act. However, what is still missing – and I say this quite openly here, we have agreed to it in the government agreement with the ÖVP –: There are still no judicial penalties for the placing on the market of medicinal products harmful to health and forgery. – A topic that we will of course also discuss in the Subcommittee of the Sports Committee. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The final report of the Expert Commission on the Enlightenment of Doping Claims to Doctors of the Sports Medicine Department of the University Hospital Freiburg has been available for a short time. I'm... We have already pointed out that we have discussed the novelle on the medical law and have already decided on it. The central question that arises for us is whether the provisions in the Medical Law are sufficient to withdraw doping doctors immediately from the traffic. Allow me to quote briefly from this Commission's final report: Systematic Epo-Doping of the “Team Telekom” under the medical supervision of Prof. Dr. Andreas Schmid and Dr. Lothar Heinrich was started in 1995 during a training camp in Mallorca. As a motive for the doping activities of the doping-loaded doctors, a non-insignificant financial profit is added. – End of the quote. Conclusion: Since 1994 there have been organized and systematic doping by doctors and medical staff at the University Hospital in Freiburg. And these doctors can still pursue their profession! And the question we have to ask ourselves is: Are the legal provisions regarding those doctors involved in doping – I am thinking here about the discussion about human plasma in Austria – sufficient or not? High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not rule out the fact that at the next meeting of the Subcommittee, the subject of medicine will be discussed, that we agree to bring about a change again, precisely these laws that we are discussing today and decide to make. I would like to ask everyone to play an active part in these arrangements and discussions.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7713	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7735	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has already pointed out that there is a consensus in the House regarding the amendment of the pharmaceutical law, the tissue safety law, the import of medicinal products law and the health and nutrition safety law, and he has already mentioned many aspects in this context. Why do we decide to make these changes? – Because the Medicines Act regulates the production and transport of medicinal products. Of course, the legislative changes are primarily aimed at the implementation of the European Union Directives and Regulations, and it has already been mentioned that the amendments to the Medicines Act are about these transpositions and about the medicinal products for novel therapies, about children's medicines. It is about adapting the term drug speciality, and it is about amending the tissue safety law on the transport of cells and tissues. This can also be transferred to third parties if they do not have an authorisation as a tissue bank. In addition, an inspection right should also be granted to the bodies of the Federal Government for the Safety of Health in relation to the establishment and means of transport of these third parties. So far, so unspectacular and important. In this context, however, I would also like to make a few comments on our health system, which, apart from the chronic messiers in Austria, is generally recognized. There are, of course, always, possibilities to develop and improve the health system, but I believe that we are at present at a level where we can not only ensure the high level of medical care throughout the world, but also that we can also in the case of medicinal products. ed and in the care of medicinal products and medicinal products, they meet all over the world high demands. If my colleague, Mr Rasinger, pointed out earlier that there was no explosion but an explosion of benefits, I may also point out the expenditure on cures in this context. These amounts to at least €2.8 billion in 2007, i.e. a substantial sum. Public expenditure on public institutions, including social security institutions, amounts to €2.9 billion for pharmaceutical products and medical goods and consumer goods. And to ensure that this is also properly managed and that all legal provisions can also be complied with, we spend €639 million on the management of social security funds. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have a survey in front of me, which is not uninteresting, where a survey has been carried out on medically prescribed drugs. On the question: Have you taken medications prescribed by a doctor in the last two weeks?, men aged 15 to 60 say 27 percent yes and 72 percent no. For women 43 per cent say yes and 56 per cent no. For men over 60, 85.3 per cent say yes, for women the same is 85.3 per cent. The highest proportion of prescribed drugs from all the federal states has my federal state, the Burgenland, with 54 percent yes and 46 percent no. On the one hand, these surveys show that, of course, the cost of drugs is very likely to be included in these figures, but they also show that we need to create a greater awareness of costs as a whole, so that the treatment of these drugs is actually guaranteed that it is also medically acceptable and acceptable. Of course, the principle - I believe it is being followed in all the federal states - is primarily the principle of prevention. There are many forms of prevention, and this must also be supported. In this sense, I am also seeking to support these changes in the legislation in question to further develop the health system in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7796	Next, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7817	Mr President. Federal Minister! Yes, we too will, of course, give our approval to this bill. A lot has already been said about this law. This is an adaptation to an EU directive, which is also necessary and good and is certainly also a step in the right direction. What has already been referred to by Mr Maier from SPÖ today is a fact, and I believe that this should be done more in the future: We are getting more and more flooded with counterfeit drugs, which are partly ineffective but sometimes also have dangerous effects. To take this into account is already a bit, especially in an EU-wide law, because I believe that Austria alone is almost powerless here. Nevertheless, I think it is a very great necessity to finally consider how to handle this problem. We know that in a globalized world where orders are quite easy to go over the Internet, of course we are faced with much bigger problems. We also know that it costs itself when people take fake drugs, which we then have to carry nationally. So that's something I really think is a very, very important thing. My previous speaker has now brought a statistics on how many drugs people get prescribed. It would also be very interesting to see how many people are prescribed medications and not take them, how many medicines are so to speak useless in the night box. There are only figures that are estimated, so there are no serious statements about that. But this too is a point that leads to a cost explosion – money that should actually be used better. These are the problems that we have in the pharmaceutical sector. On the other hand, there are a very large number of chronically ill people who have been calling for drug packs to be available for years. There are, for example, catheter materials for cross-sectionally laminated persons, where costs are always incurred for those affected. So here is a redistribution of those who let drugs rot in the night box, to those they really need, a sensible thing. I think we should think about it because I think that as a health policy, we have a responsibility that all people get exactly what they need. I would welcome it and would also be very pleased if we could continue to discuss this area exactly. Above all, I would also like to welcome it if there were really serious surveys. In this sense, I would like to say that we agree with this draft law, but hope that there will be further discussions here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7869	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7890	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Of course, we from the Future Alliance of Austria agree with these four legislative amendments and the corresponding EU health adaptations. I am entitled to submit a motion for a resolution on the part of the BZÖ which deals in particular with the Medicines Act and which requires compensation for Contergan victims. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the marketing of medicinal products requires the highest care at all levels. The legislator is required here. This authorisation must be verifiable at any time to be able to carry out a risk assessment, including ongoing quality checks of all the entities involved. The potential risks for patients should be avoided at all levels if possible. This, ladies and gentlemen, was not always the case, namely in the years 1958 to 1961. At that time, the prescription drug Softenon, produced by the company Grünenthal in Aachen, was approved in Austria. It is the same drug that has become known all over the world as “Contergan” in a tragic way. It promised to calm down and sleep in all situations of life, and that for all ages. As was usual at that time, the drug was already spent as a medical pattern a few years before. Early pregnant women, who then took softenon to relieve their sufferings, usually behaved severely handicapped children, and that was the real disaster at the time. Some of these children were deported to their homes, others were lucky and were allowed to grow up in their own family. But in these families huge problems have arisen: Marriage partners, children, parents of the Contergan sufferers are overwhelmed by these problems and these serious disabilities, these physical and psychological sufferings. There are also many who are in financial distress. In many countries of the world today, Contergan victims are being compensated by the national governments that then admitted the drug. This has not happened in Austria until today. Neither by state nor by the company Grünenthal, which has placed this drug on the market, has there been a compensation or any pension or similar. Many of these people did not go to the public because they were afraid and ashamed to make their fate media-public. In the meantime, however, there is a self-help group, the self-help group of the Contergan and Thalidomide-damaged Austria. This self-help group turned to the various institutions in 2008 with the request for support. Among other things, support was requested from the Federal President, the People's Procuratorate and also from the relevant ministries. On the side of the Ministry of Health, there was an informal prospect of a fund solution at the time, and discussions with the Ministry of Finance were also announced. Now a year has passed, and the Contergans are still waiting for a concrete response from politics. There is a clear need for action here, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. That is why our motion for a resolution. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, let's help the Contergan victims!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7969	The application submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8036	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8057	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, Mr Maier's comments on the matter of doping. Mr Maier is right, of course, and I am very much in favour of doing so, if they are unlawfully using medicines to harm people, doctors must be able to be punished. The problem is often doping because doping regulations are divided into x sizes, difficult to find and not compressed. I think we should see that a little bit... – So I don't think the last word has been spoken yet. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It would also probably be appropriate to ask the Ministers responsible to be present in a subcommittee of the Sports Committee, which I do not belong to, which is to negotiate doping. That would help. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the pharmaceutical and tissue safety law. This is an enormously modern, forward-looking law, reads completely exciting, I have to say, and testifies to a great competence of the resort. It takes something from a future medicine into today and, as it were, prevents legal certainty and makes clear to and in Austria what the EU started to define more precisely years ago. The definitions of a medicinal product were no longer sufficient and allowed some researchers, clinicians and users to have room for interpretation, which I do not welcome to say that it is left to individuals, since it is considered to be a medicine and not here. Unfortunately, as you know, at a large university clinic there has been a considerable scandal, which has been caused by this legal uncertainty and also by a through, I say now, stupidity and not by evil, so I hope at least, false information has come from the resort, where one has done the courage there or has expressed the determination to make clinical trials that have largely led to results without the approval of an ethics commission, which were not all 100% satisfactory, partly harmful to patients. This can now be stopped. The fact that a medicine, as it was previously defined, always has to be made up of the same active substances, is no longer to be maintained, where, in times of genetic technology, one can also use cells, tissues therapy that is not always the same. No human resembles the other, and so cells are not always the same. Here, too, I think I'm very essential. Many tumor diseases, malicious blood diseases require stem cell therapy, and a non-infertile part, at least in the malignant blood disease, can be cured by these therapies. How to do this is how quality assurance must take place here, if you even get so far today that you manipulate individual therapies and cells tailored to individuals in such a way that they fit their body and can detect and combat tumor cells. There must be no hobby researchers and amateurs in Dr. Mabuse-Kämmerchen, which actually does not exist, to be left to experiment here. There is a need for security here, and there is a need for a political instrument for control. Very good is that once again children will be focused on their problems, in so far as they have registered that many medicines are used untestedly in children because there have been no clinical trials in children for decades – or at least not enough. That children can no longer be exposed to this danger, I think is totally good. But just that you see that this is not an uncritical support of genetic technology: In the past, the diabetics used to inject swine insulin, i.e. insulin from the pig. Now, by gene technology, you are able to inject human insulin, which differs by nothing, by nothing, by no atom, and thus achieve success. And that this can be done under supervision, under research kindness and patient kindness at the same time, is, as it were, the result of this law. Finally: Something is also clarified and made possible: In unhealable, chronically ill persons, if anything else fails, medications can also be used at risk – but this risk must, is described, be as calculable as possible, it must be recorded in studies of side effects – in order to give those patients who are otherwise helplessly exposed to the disease, patients without therapeutic possibility the chance of healing or at least improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8139	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8161	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear guests at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen. With this draft law, we are actually amending four laws: the pharmaceutical law, the tissue safety law, the pharmaceuticals import law and the health and nutrition safety law. The amendments to the legislation – and this is already true of the previous speakers – are an adaptation to the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on medicinal products for therapeutic therapies, but also for children's medicines. Similarly, the term ‘speciality of medicinal products’, which is actually subject to authorisation, is adapted to the requirements of Directive 2001/83/EC. However, I would also like to point out that the law contains the clarification that non-interventional studies, i.e. application observations, as one says today in medicine, can only be carried out if they comply with the state of modern science. This clarification will be made in particular in the form of: In addition to the proposed introduction of a reporting obligation, it is important for these studies. However, I would particularly like to point out something, and that was added in § 41 of this law quite “barely. ” I would like to thank the Federal Minister for taking a very important step in this area of health policy: The members of the Ethics Commission must clearly declare their relations with the pharmaceutical companies. I believe that this is a very important point which is enshrined in this law. The change in the tissue safety law makes it clear that the transport of cells and tissues can also be carried out by third parties who do not have an authorisation as a tissue bank and that this control is the responsibility of the Federal Office for Health Security. It is clarified in the Act on the import of medicinal products that the attempt to violate administrative penalties is already punishable in the case of imports. In this context, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to conclude by thanking Mr Stöger and his staff very much for the successful law. With the approval of the House, we are taking an important step in health policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8256	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 184 of the supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment tabled by Mr Oberhauser, Dr Rasinger, colleagues, who refer to Articles 1 Z 10 and Z 23. Since only one request was made, I shall immediately vote on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the just mentioned amendment and the title and receipt. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a corresponding sign. - That's accepted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also voting in favour of this draft law at third reading. – The draft was also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members List, Members and Members on compensation for Contergan victims. If you join this motion for a resolution, I would ask for an acceptable sign. – He finds no majority and is therefore rejected. [[11:38:30]] 5. Point Report by the Health Committee on the Government Template (154, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Law on the Hygiene of Baths (185 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8326	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8354	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Bath Hygiene Act will amend the following important points: On the one hand, it is about implementing a directive of the European Parliament, which focuses on the quality of bathing water and its management, and on the second part, it is a clarification of the scope of the Bathing Hygiene Act with regard to hot spray tubs, better known as hot tubs. What is now happening in the implementation of this EU Directive, the main innovations: For each bathing water, a bathing water profile must be created and updated regularly. In this current profile, potential sources of pollution and pollution are to be described, qualified and analysed in relation to bathing water, as well as near bathing water. The purpose of such profiles is to obtain important information which, on the one hand, will enable long-term planning for the conservation of bathing water and bathing quality, but also to improve, the possibility of creating check lists relating to pollution events, and the results will also be maintained and reviewed on a regular basis. An annual classification of the quality of bathing water will take place not only on the basis of the data of the last bathing season, but also on the last four bathing seasons. In addition, formal commitments should also be introduced in connection with the management measures during the bathing season. In the event of non-compliance with values, immediate action should be possible. In addition, long-term measures should also be possible in order to be able to restructuring accordingly in order to be able to make discharges for bathing ponds for bathing water – a very good and necessary measure. In addition, the public, the users of bathing lakes are also to be informed regularly, and accordingly you can also read on the Internet as it is about the individual bathing waters. The second part concerns the so-called hot spray tubs or the application of § 2 of the Bath Hygiene Act. You will certainly all know from your own experience that these hot water sprinklers really experience a boom. However, one often has to speak of a boom in connection with what is in this water. In order to lay down a health measure in this regard, it is now required that § 2 of the Bath Hygiene Act be applied – a sensible, necessary, important health policy measure, but also an important measure relating to tourism, because Austria is a tourist country, and it is necessary that our bathing water and also the hot water sprinkle tubs are healthy and do not harm us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8399	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8420	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, bathing temperatures around 30 degrees, as we were allowed to experience them last weekend, make sure that young and old like to venture the jump into the cool water – and that can be done in the Austrian bathing lakes and bathing ponds, because they have a very high water quality. The European Commission's bathing water report also shows that God is grateful. Nevertheless, there is a advertising drop, because in 2008 seven bathing areas were attacked, which did not comply with EU hygiene regulations – in the year before that, only six were. These cross-border crossings are not harmful to health and do not affect the fun of swimming, but they need to be followed, of course. It is particularly interesting for me, since four of these affected seaside resorts are located in Lower Austria, in my constituency, in my immediate vicinity. One of them is a bathing pool in Litscha, close to the Czech border, a bathing area concerns the seaside resort of Weißenkirchen on the Danube and two bathing areas the camp river – that is the most important river in the forest district, and of it the Badesee Ottenstein and the Kampflussbad in the Kamptal. The State of Lower Austria has commissioned a study and the evaluation is already available. It was analysed the entire camp flow and found that small feeders, where catastrophes bordering communities that do not have wastewater plant, cause problems. We are already working on the removal of these problems. Secondly, it was also noted that heavy rain events contribute to the transport of large earth masses with the camp flow and, of course, to the subsequent measurements taking place within six to 48 hours of such precipitation events. In Lower Austria is regularly controlled in these bathing areas within 14 days, and it can happen, of course, that one is caught just a period where such a special impact is present by a thunderstorm. Such measurement data, which contribute to the distortion of the overall result, may not be taken into account once a year, i.e. short-term pollution due to weather-related individual events may be ignored. This will, of course, contribute to the fact that the overall result is a clearer picture when it comes to the camp flow, when it comes to the water quality result. Despite this impact, Austria is cutting off very well in the EU comparison. In 2008, 97 percent of the bathing lakes studied were certified with good water quality. They meet the standards, and 72 percent even met the higher voluntary standards. Furthermore, this law also contains a gap between bathing water spray baths – it has already been carried out by my colleague. In the future, companies will also have to obtain an operating permit for those hot tubs that are not subject to the trade regulations, and they will have to submit an annual water hygiene report to the competent district administration authority. There are, therefore, new parameters which are included in this legislative amendment which can also set out measures which will contribute to improving the water quality of bathing waters, especially surface waters. A targeted data evaluation will be planned, which will, above all, cover a long period of four years and will, of course, contribute to the creation of the bathing water profile. More transparency, more information on bathing water quality will also be made possible for bathing guests in the future. And with this in view of tourism and above all for the benefit of bathing guests, it will continue to be possible for all people who like to swim in the Austrian lakes and ponds to enjoy a full swim.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8472	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8493	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We too will agree to this law. It has already been said a lot about this law. Of course, it is urgently necessary for our waters to be reviewed regularly. Even though only seven waters have been contaminated, it is seven times too much, and every water that is contaminated belongs immediately regulated. I believe that this is very, very important, also in the sense of our people, our people, who are supposed to have the right to bathe in clean waters. I also believe – and this is something that is particularly good in this law – that pollution sources must also be identified. This allows the individual bath visitor to decide for himself: If he wants to bathe here, or doesn't he want to leave it? This is something that is certainly a very big step forward. But what is still being done by this law – it has already been mentioned – is the adoption of hot water sprinklers. That's something we think is very good. We believe that just the hot water baths that don't only at spas, but also at various other places of pleasure, should be subject to more stringent control. We know that germs are keeping better in warm water right now. A little bit of a problem I still have with the frequency of the controls, namely precisely these hot water spray baths. I believe that a more regular investigation should be carried out in these areas. Once a year is almost a little bit. Nevertheless: We consider this law to be a step in the right direction, and we will therefore agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8535	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8557	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the latest studies, 261 out of 268 lakes meet the quality criteria required by the EU. Numerous lakes have excellent water quality, many even drinking water quality. Therefore, adapting to EU directives will not be a problem. The provisions for hot water spray baths are important, because we know that these hot tubs are the best feeding ground for bacteria and represent a potential risk for infectious diseases. The bath masters are closely connected to the bath hygiene. At present, the Austrian legal system is missing standards concerning uniform vocational training for the professional bather. The lack of a requirement profile for a profession that requires great responsibility and use leads to the fact that, for example, the ability to swim does not even need to be demonstrated. This fact has already led to dramatic incidents in the recent past, the result of which in Carinthia one had to answer one of swimming ignorant bath masters. For several years now, in Austria, at the Austrian Standardisation Institute, an appropriate directive is being worked on in order to ensure the quality of the training of bathers. At present, the federal states are training bath masters according to their own ideas and different training guidelines. In the interests of the safety of bathing guests, but also of the bath master, it is urgent to establish a uniform federal regime with standards which, among other things, ensure training in the areas of swimming, first aid, water rescue, guest care, hygiene, disinfection and water treatment as an essential prerequisite for the exercise of this profession. We already submitted an application in May 2008. I would like to make one more request on this point today:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8621	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8685	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8707	Mr President. Federal Minister! Again a very good law, scientifically competent, full of responsibility to consumers, but also to read with a certain amusement. And since everything is so animal serious, I would like to respond to the cheerful notes of this law. It shows how often competent officials are: It is taken into account by the federal principle – I still come to it – that the German language is also assigned to Huld and dignity by calling the hot tub “Warmsprudelwanne” – also a concession – and it is so much about “surface waters” and other “waters” that one could almost believe that one is still in the age of the K. u.k. Seemacht Austria-Hungary. [[Abg. Grossruck: That's what the liberals wanted!]] So much nautical competence has always been strange to me in the department. But if you read the federal things now, you will find the following – I quote –: ‘The head of state shall establish a bathing water profile for each existing bathing water, and review and update it regularly. For new bathing waters, the bathing water profile shall be drawn up until the bathing water is included in the national master’s regulation.’ Now, if I imagine this way: How's that going? – If a country captain has read this sentence ten times and then, wrapped in a white sauna cloth, moves with a handy microscope from the sauna to the steam bath and here fulfills his duties, the expression “pastor” who knows everything and can do everything and makes it quite a weight. But if you now think that the health insurance companies – which has something to do with the lake – seem to be slowly going overboard with their financial problems, but Austria is happy to see that in bathing waters there are no salmonellas, worms and other things and our guests are protected from foot mushrooms, then this again has another note. [[Abg. Hörl: This is also important!]] It's not supposed to be that in front of every hot tub in the Ziller Valley: Ask the doctor, pharmacist, hotelier or Mr. Landeshuptmann before using! - It can't be. And “souvenirs” such as hepatitis, worms, mushrooms are not what the tourist likes to take home. That's probably a little better for Tirolerhütte to sell. But the law has done some things in order not to allow the Alpine saga to follow a third episode. And here the resort has also taken care of or heard the tourist associations. If you hear that more than 60 percent of the samples are attacked in hot tubs, that already has something for itself. I'm reading about what I attribute to tourism: The checks will be designed to “make it possible to carry out the necessary tests and documentation without affecting the well-being of the guest or the privacy of the guests.” Now I already know that in hot tubs a lot can be done in private. And that this atmosphere should be protected is clear to me, too. But I'm just saying that if you're infecting yourself in the hot tub, you don't always have to blame the goodness of bathing water. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call BZÖ: What?]] [[Further calls.]] Minister, at the end of the day: They have contributed a lot to safety. The tourism associations are cheering. It makes sense! The people are wise, they say: On the alm, there’s ka Sind’! - That's where the hot tub has been left out. And that's what the Minister recognized and responded to. What's good, Minister Stöger, is your honesty: You say there's never a zero risk. – This will not harm the tourists, and I wish you a happy swim! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8784	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 185 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. - That's accepted. I should also like to invite the third reading of this draft to be approved. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Debates of the European Parliament Spadiut, ladies and gentlemen, on the creation of a uniform vocational training for bathers. Whoever joins this request, I ask for a sign. – He does not find the majority and is rejected. [[11:58:11]] 6. Point Report by the Health Committee on the Government Template (153, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Blood Security Act in 1999 (186 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8839	We're coming to 6. Agenda item. Reporting is not required. Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8867	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now dealing with the blood safety law, which also requires, among other things, which tests must pass through blood donations in order to ensure maximum safety for the recipients. As one of the first countries in the world, Austria already passed a law on the regulation of plasma donation in 1975, and in 1999 the donation of blood plasma and thrombocytes was re-regulated by the Blood Safety Act. It contains numerous provisions for the protection of donors and recipients and is stricter than international guidelines. The change we are discussing today is not about the protection provisions in the blood safety law – here the standards are still exemplary – but an administrative aspect to simplify inspections. The inspection of fixed blood donors has so far been carried out by the district authorities. In future, these will only be more responsible for mobile blood donors. The other inspections will be tasked with by the Federal Office for Safety in Health. This measure will in future help to avoid the double-tracks that have occurred so far. Not only the district authorities are relieved, but also for the companies concerned, the new system allows for a simpler and therefore more efficient administration, as in other areas of their activity they are subject to the pharmaceutical laws and thus, anyway, the inspection by the Federal Office. As far as the Federal Institute for Health Security is concerned, which will now take over new tasks, Minister Stöger also noted that the Bundesanstalt, as part of the AGES, has the necessary human resources. The AGES is also a reliable institution in other areas, such as the protection of drugs, food safety and problems, for example in the case of the New flu. An important change is also the mandatory writtenness between the blood donation and the laboratories. This undoubtedly ensures better perceptibility and greater transparency in the external award of laboratory studies to determine the riskless suitability of blood donors. To sum up, this is a template that will bring more efficiency and clarity – that is, a reasonable template that we would like to support.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8918	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8939	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present novel of the Blood Safety Act is a simplification in the inspection of blood donors. There have been double-tracks in practice up to now, which has led to an increase in the burden on the companies concerned. This change will transfer the task of the inspection of blood donation facilities from the District Administration Authority to the Federal Office for Safety in Health. This means a total administrative relief. Mobile blood removals shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the district authorities. Furthermore, there is also a requirement regarding procurement arrangements for the outsourcing of laboratory services for the determination of the health fitness of donors. This is an important measure. From the outset, you can determine whether you are suitable for the blood donation or not. Overall, this novelle is a further step towards ensuring safety and feasibility in the field of blood donation in Austria. A few years ago, we incorporated the voluntary free, that is, unpaid, blood donation into the law to ensure, on the one hand, the high quality of the blood canneds and, on the other hand, to oppose international trade in blood products. The national blood donation system has a long tradition in Austria and is a growing structure that is well maintained and cared for by the Austrian Red Cross. In my opinion, Mr Federal Minister, we should think about a possible next step in the blood security law, namely anchoring national self-sufficiency by law. Voluntary, unpaid blood donations are carried out on the basis of national self-sufficiency by non-profit institutions. Especially in times of epidemics and pandemics, I believe it would be important to ensure national self-sufficiency in this area. However, I do not wish to be mentioned, Federal Minister, that yesterday, together with the President of the Red Cross, Fredy Mayer, you made awards for businesses that are particularly involved and stand out in the field of blood donation. I would also like to mention who was awarded yesterday. This year's winners include the company Agrarmarkt Austria, Henkel Austria, IBM Austria, the purchase park Alterlaa as well as the HTL Mödling. I would like to mention these plants very consciously, because it is important that the plants help to organize in the blood donors, in the blood donation system. I would also like to highlight the High House here positively: There are blood donations in Parliament all year round. This is also being properly set up here, and I would like to thank the Bureau very much for that. In total, Austria’s patients are supplied with 500,000 blood canneds of 300,000 donors each year. In total, however, there are only just 4 percent of the population who regularly donate blood in Austria. I would like to close by quoting Red Cross President Mayer, who said yesterday at the award ceremony: Blood cannot be artificially produced, and a canned can only be preserved for 42 days. We need dedicated blood donors all year round who donate their red juice for sick and injured people. Businesses and businesses that take on social responsibility and show concrete commitment are important. - Quote. I don't think that's gonna add anything. This law, of course, finds our support. And my request would be to think about national self-sufficiency in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9004	Next speaker: Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9025	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Savings in the administrative sector can only be welcomed. If there is currently a double track record and therefore an increase in the burden on the companies concerned, a change in the law must bring simplification. The Red Cross proudly reports: Everyone gets only what he needs, because after the removal the blood is divided into his components, in red blood cells and blood plasma. Science is extremely advanced here. The durability of 42 days instead of 21, i.e. a doubling, is also an enormous progress. Of course, an enormous amount of bureaucracy is necessary, from the donor to the blood donation for transport to the hospitals laboratories, through the hospital departments to the patient, in order to recognize any diseases that may occur later on through the transmission. But if the guideline for mobile blood donation operations as well as stationary blood, thrombocyte and plasma decreases of five Din-A4 pages, is large, large, and, as far as the cotroll is concerned, the checklist for inspections includes nine Din-A4 pages, small printed, so twice as thick, then I have to say: It is incomprehensible to me why the checklist for inspections is twice as thick as the blood donation directive, which is the requirement for what to control. The inspection should actually understand what the guideline provides. The need for action is obvious. Let us hope that this change of law will actually bring about the desired simplification.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9064	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9086	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment to the Blood Security Act provides for a simplification of inspections to prevent double-railing. The blood donors are controlled by the AGES, but mobile withdrawals remain under the competence of the district authorities. I don't know where the elimination of double-tracks takes place. The question of whether the acquisition of the investigations and controls of blood donors by the AGES would require an increase in staff would be answered. The AGES will be assigned more and more tasks so that there will soon be too few staff, and then the staff will have to be increased, and if this results in additional costs, it will be rejected. By the way, however, we will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9113	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9134	Mr President. Federal Minister! This law is one of the very few and rare steps in the sense of administrative reform and in the sense of the idea of also setting certain limits to federalism. What the Land authorities should do and what they have to do in order to achieve this is first of all cost-effective and second, I say very critically now, not always quality assurance. I therefore have to give my previous speaker the right thing if he raises the question of why only stationary facilities are subject to simplification, but not outpatient blood donation services. This is difficult to understand and a compromise that should be avoided. The stationary facilities already have certain infrastructural specifications, which a bus that travels through the country and calls for donations could not have to this extent, because they are in hospitals or red cross centres alone. It's a shame there's a separation. Nevertheless, this change is good. A critical comment on the countries that have so far been responsible. When there was hepatitis C sacrifice among plasma donors in the 1970s, the countries wanted nothing to do with it. It was agreed that countries, federal government and industry, i.e. plasma companies, should pay into a hepatitis C sacrifice fund. The federal government has paid, the industry has said it pays only if the countries pay, and the countries have not paid. I thought that was bad! And this should already move Parliament to ensure that countries, if they have competence and have failed within them, bear the responsibility of those to whom they have done damage or where they have too little to reduce this damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9174	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9195	Mr President. Federal Minister! Each of us can need blood in a few minutes, for some reason, and I think we are glad that we have a law and can be sure that we get blood, which we not only tolerate, but also benefits our health. Because it is said here that this change of law is a step towards a reform of the administration, I can say: I see this step rather in the simplification through a documentation – Mr Maier has already addressed the issue of doping today – in which it is clearly documented in all areas, what happens to the blood that is being taken off. I think that's important. The aim is to exclude the fact that in this area there are so to speak machinations that are being traded with blood. I think this is an important measure to protect people. Up to now, the facilities and establishments in which blood collection takes place have been reviewed by the district authorities as well as by the Federal Office for Health Security. Now you've put this on a track, so to speak. I believe that this is an important step, because someone who does his job well should also be assigned the work that is important for all. In any case, machinations are to be excluded. If something happens, then everyone is always thrown into a pot. We want to prevent this, because there are many good institutions that for us take blood from people and pass on to us. I thank you for this law – it's important, we just need it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9235	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 153 of the supplements. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are in favour of this bill, I would ask for a sign of approval. - That's accepted. If you also agree with this draft law at third reading, I would ask for a sign on this point. – The draft was also adopted at third reading. [[12:14:27]] 7. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 473/A(E) by Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues on a plan for the implementation and financing of a federal, graduated hospice and palliative services (187 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9284	I'll call the 7. Agenda item. First Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9308	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The palliative and hospice care is a very flexible example of how broken and fragmented funding is in the health and care sector in Austria. While palliative care is assigned to health care hospitals, hospice care is assigned to social law and care. Some of the countries pay – Kurt Grünewald always says: Death is a matter of country! – and cures, remedies and all the things people need outside are paid by social health insurance. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: A quote!]] That is, all in all, this is a very fragmented funding stream, which also leads to the difficulty of not appreciating exactly what would result in efficient hospice and palliative services for Austria at cost. Since 2001, efforts have been made by the then Federal Government and also by the last federal government to plan and raise, and it has been tried to bring it all together. Unfortunately, due to the fragmentation, these experiments have not currently gone beyond planning and lifting. This federal government has also set itself the goal of treating the priority – expressed in the government agreement, but also in the Article-15a agreement – to ensure that a comprehensive quality-secured palliative and hospice supply is provided. There was a working group in the ministry, which delivered its final report in 2006, if I remember correctly, where there were proposals which were partially not accepted by the countries. Why? – Because the funding flows outside the LKF funding were not clear for the countries. Therefore, there was obviously also a veto in view of their budgets. We've got this back on the agenda. I very much hope that this time, because of the fact that the health resort and the social resort are in the social democratic hands, we will be able to put up with a high-quality hospice and palliative care for Austria in the next few years. Hope dies last. In this sense, I believe that we should really bring this issue to a conclusion in the next few years. The interim report to be presented by the Minister by 2010 should benefit from further fruitful and targeted discussions.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9343	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9364	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! In today's newspapers, a homicide has been committed. I was talking about a case where an incurable sick person asked his friend to shoot him. He's beenged about this, thoughtfully and time and again. By chance, the dying person had a life insurance of € 220 000. Yeah, it's not so devious that sometimes moral dams break. That is why we need a high-quality hospice and palliative supply. There are plans of 450 beds plus mobile services. The crucial point is that: When people are close to death, are at the end of their lives, then they are very often in pain, then they are often lonely, then they often don't know out and one anymore, and if they don't have any help, no helping hand is there, then the next step is pretty sure that they say: I don't want anymore, I can't! Does anyone help me die? To do this is exactly the wrong answer, because we know from the hospice movement that if you give these people an optimal pain therapy, if you take away the loneliness, if you want to die suddenly, and if people want to spend the last few days worthy of it. Why is that so important? – It may be unspectacular, but it is one of the most essential human questions we can ask at all: How do we deal with the end of life? Other countries are very sluggish about this. For me, Holland is the absolute negative example: 3 200 patients do not end their lives themselves, but it is ended by a foreign hand – not counting the dark figures! – and at least 20 percent are disabled and children who cannot ask for their death at all. I think that – I say this quite honestly – is horrific: I find this horrendous because there's a dam breaking after another. You don't have old people there anymore! They don't need hospice care, they don't need nursing homes either, because people aren't there, because they already asked for their death and then they say: I already belong away, for what should the old man ask if there is no provision? I do not think that this ethical breach of dam, which takes place in some European countries and which, above all, has gone out of Holland, is funny, not done at all and a human poverty. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as with representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens.]] There are the Austrian Hospice Plans really to be praised! I know how difficult it is to implement something, I know how difficult it is to do something, but I think we have already taken a step further. The rationalization debate is now under way in Germany. What is the policy to say if the doctors there demand by limited means: Yes, please, what to do first, the hip or the coronary bypass? – Of course, on such issues the rationalization debate always comes at the end of life, and there are very health economists – and I can show them to you – who said ten years ago: Well, in the last half year, about 50 percent of the costs are involved; what if we somehow shorten the last half year? I think that health and economics often come together, are actually forced partners, but this must not lead to an economic approach to health approaches. Each of us – every one of us here! – can be sick tomorrow, can need help tomorrow, and I think it's bad, it's totally rejected when a person realizes at the end of his life that there's no help that there's no care, and then he says: Please kill me! I don't think that's happening, and of course it also brings the entire staff into a massive stress situation. I don't even wonder that there are burn-out cases there! Our approach must be quite clear as follows: At the end of life, we do not need hospital treatment and intensive treatment at all costs – even we do not want to do that – but we want to fight pain and especially loneliness – it is not always about medical treatments – by giving the right answer. And the right answer is: optimal expansion of the hospice movement, palliative supply. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] Then such headlines as “He has been begging for this ” will be individual cases and not the rule.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9457	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9479	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that the government parties too have been able to get through with this request. Especially in the last months of a life, that has already been said by my previous speaker that people are very often lonely – that is part of it. The other is that relatives with care are very often overwhelmed and overburdened, because you know, we are currently unfortunately in the situation that patients are either in the hospital or they are so to speak sent home as incurably ill. Then the relatives are very often demanded, and this is actually an unsustainable state and actually a shame for Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Austria is one of the richest countries in the world, and I believe we have to be able to afford it – and we can afford it too! – not to leave people alone in such difficult situations. And it is certainly also one of the fundamental rights of people to die in dignity and not to be left alone somewhere. I therefore think that this request is a very, very important request, a groundbreaking one. I hope that, after this interim report is to be presented in 2010, implementation will also be very, very quickly addressed, because an evaluation alone has not yet done so. And I really ask all those who have the responsibility to work out opportunities quickly and quickly, so that there is no longer a dying person in Austria, that there should no longer be a seriously ill person who does not know how to spend his last months or that there should be no more relatives who are despairing in the care.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9518	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9539	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We support this request, we believe it is more than necessary and urgent. The problem in this area is known: We are particularly concerned with people who have serious relatives to care for in an area where medicine is a lot of fun. It is not possible to make it any longer manageable and financeable. There is a discussion on the administration and cost of painkillers. Financial resources should not play a role in this area. For this reason, mainly on private initiatives in Austria, Hospice institutions – whether supported by church organizations or also by economic institutions – have established themselves, which have been very successful and above all humanely exemplary. However, it cannot be the task of individuals and organisations to finance and support these institutions as well; I think it is a public obligation to take care of them here, especially in the area of pain therapy and palliatives. [[BZÖ and Abg. Kößl.]] The problem is that those responsible are usually pushed down and down among the different competences – whether in the health sector or also in the social field – and for this reason the countries have often taken over tasks. I can point out that there has been a palliative medical institution at LKH Klagenfurt since 2004, as a result of a private initiative, which is dedicated not only to the caregivers and the dying, but above all to the pain patients. This is about the fact that the necessary financial resources are also made available from the country side, because human death cannot be a question of the different responsibilities of the federal government, countries or cash registers, it should be a fundamental right for every person, and that is why we have the necessary consequences here too. I would like to draw attention to one more point, namely that many caregivers in Austria need to be classified as special hardship cases, for which intensive care and care needs often do not satisfy the financial resources in the families, even if they are classified in the care level 7. I would simply like to suggest that there is a special scheme: Few individual cases are affected. They are mostly severely impaired people, or they are palliative patients who need intensive medical care for a certain period of time and do not receive any additional payments – neither from the cash offices nor from the social pots that could be set up at country level. I would therefore like to suggest that we introduce something like an additional level of care for this patient group, through which financial support can be provided for a certain period, which is usually a short one, so that palliative and cancer patients also receive the medicines needed or the remedy and supplementary food paid by the health insurance companies. We support this initiative because it is a blessed one. We therefore support them because there are already many good institutions at country level, in the private sector and also in the church area, but they need to be coordinated – and that is the decisive thing! – because if there is a central coordination on the part of the federal government and the countries, we could also save ourselves the necessary resources and use them more efficiently for the benefit of the patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9604	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9627	Mr President. Federal Minister! What we have here is a compromise, and the request has been made in a different way. I will agree to the compromise because, of course, it is better than nothing, but I should like to remember that a federal working group, which met for over a year, discussed, evaluated and presented a report in the summer of 2006, has been set up on our initiative. The report describes the situation of the state of the state and describes how far the individual states and their institutions are away from the target state – which was calculated on the basis of 2013. It has been shown that 20 percent of the target state has not even been achieved in some federal states – not even 20 percent! The best was always the degree of success in volunteering, where it costs the country nothing, where the federal government and the cash registers have nothing to pay. That is the breach of the dam that would be necessary, namely to recognize here that what we now have is another evaluation! And three years later, what will we see? – Some things have happened in three years, but far too little, we will know. And then the question comes again: Who controls this system? Or believe Do you really want it to depend on the registration note, on the registration of a dying person, in what quality in which human environment and care he or she has to die, or on the credit of a national chief, on his personal treasure box of the budget, or of the star songs or of the casinos Austria? – So I find this unbearable, and I slowly lack patience! There's nothing else left to me and back and forth you just have to be nice and nice so you can get something at all, but I don't like to love and be nice! Dieers do not write letters of complaint, I already know, and family members do not like to rain up months after that on the conditions under which their relatives had to die. – And there are so many good projects not only the Caritas Socialis, also the deacony and other voluntary organizations, such as the Red Cross or the Roof Association of the Hospice Movement, which have plans! What happens in Tyrol? I just mention one example of my federal state: There you start now, a pilot project in To do away – an experimental project! Such experimental projects are innumerable all over the world, also in Austria. This experimental project is intended to last three years, i.e. in three years we may ask again: Let's do this or don't we do it? - That smells! I have come to know very slowly that wealthy people can afford a better, faster, more comfortable medicine. And that affluents can also finance human death at the same time, that is, as it is – but that others cannot, I find pitiful. And it is also an aberwitz of federalism that, when I lie in the hospital, I, as cynically as it sounds, die for nothing, but I want to die at home where 90 percent of the dying want to end, I pay the de facto if it is not carried through donations, itself. The quality of dying I pay for myself, and this money has the least people! So I wish myself: This costs € 110 million, and up to now the 40, 50 million have already been invested; that is, it costs to reach 100 percent of the supply in Tyrol, about as much as the reconstruction of the football stadium to the status quo ante – and that must be inside! I don't let anything else explain to me here anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9681	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9703	Dr. Grünewald! I am right to say that it is a bit sluggish, because – you have to say quite honestly – the whole discussion has already begun in 1999 when, if I still have this right in my mind, the word Hospice has been used for the first time in the hospital and large-scale equipment plans. And it was not until 2001 that the comprehensive expansion and expansion was decided, and that was the first step in the right direction: We want a palliative concept in Austria. However, this Article 15a agreement was already concluded in 2005 with the countries in which it was agreed to plan and implement uniformly equivalent, comprehensively defined supplies throughout Austria – only the word “priority” actually contradicts. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: The implementation! The implementation!]] We are all aware that there can be conflicting and different regional demands, but we really have the damn duty to look at that interdisciplinary. This means that not only the health sector can now be held responsible, but also the social sector as well as psychological care and the mental care aspects must be taken into account. One aspect that we should not ignore is the demographic development we are experiencing. This suggests that there will be more and more older people in Austria, and at the same time we also know that there are more and more single households and more professionals who are no longer able to take care of the severely ill people. And none of us – I don't tell you anything new – want to do this: to be left alone in death. It is therefore all the more important that the provision of people to the end of life as well as the best possible care of suffering be guaranteed regardless of the social position – that is important to me –. It is well known that both in the Government Convention and in the Article 15a Agreement, the organisation and financing of the Palliative approach are to be found. With your concerns, as I believe, that we are now only more dependent on whether the countries are doing something or not, there has been an order for the Federal Minister to draw an interim report on what the current hospice and palliative services are all about. . And I am really so far from my inner conviction that, when this 2010 report is presented, we can succeed in ensuring the optimal expansion of palliative care in Austria with good will, with common good will.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9746	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9768	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Palliative care does not begin only at the end of life, but palliative care begins when the realization that the Lifetime is scarce, and in the care of outpatient and stationary palliative patients the individual quality of life is a goal of treatment. Patient-oriented palliative medicine and palliative care require high professional competence, dealing with death, death and mourning, psychosocial care and support. There are tasks and goals that cannot be fulfilled by a health profession alone; for the highly complex objective “Safeguarding a high quality of life”, an interdisciplinary team is needed, in which different competences and views need to be combined. This team includes doctors, professional caregivers, ergo and psychotherapists, psychologists, volunteer workers as well as social workers and the clergy. However, the most important person in the care team is the person concerned: His experiences and information as well as those of his family eventually form the basis of palliative care. However, this understanding means that the person concerned and his family as team members are also involved in the relevant information and decisions. Palliative also fits very well in the care of the home. My previous speakers have already mentioned that this, of course, causes enormous costs. In the population there is the saying: Not even death is for nothing, because it costs life!, and if we want to prevent additional costs from happening before, if you want to die in dignity – and all people want to die in dignity and above all not be left alone – then we as a people's representative and as a High House have to create the possibility that death in dignity is actually possible. We have a comprehensive supply in Burgenland by all the organizations that exist, such as the Red Cross, the deacony as a church institution or my organization, the Burgenische Hilfwerk, and many more. We operate this hospice and care, and I hope that in other federal states, too, it will succeed in spending all the means necessary to enable every person to die in dignity.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9810	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9831	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Greenewald, I am very grateful to you for the initiative taken there. I believe that we are now taking an important step in this proposal. I always say, A healthy society has two tasks to do: one is to bring newborn babies and children into life, and the other is to accompany dying and incurable sick people out of life. This is a matter of human dignity and humanity. I believe that we need to understand Hospiz and Palliative on the one hand as an improvement in the quality of life of incurable sick and dying and on the other hand as a relief and overcoming of this difficult situation for the family. The focus of this hospice and palliative care must be on the patient and family; the patient with the relief of his suffering, with reasonable and adjusted pain therapy. And it is a very important task of policy to create the financial framework in order to ensure that doctors and nurses are able to In this area, patients can be given appropriate care and treatment. We have the problem that we have too few trained doctors in this area. We have the problem that too few domestic doctors are really dealing with this matter. We have the problem on weekends when the family doctor may not be able to reach that we have too few emergency doctors who are familiar with this matter. That's where we need to get started. It is the task of policy to create the conditions for training in the medical field and, of course, in the field of nursing training in the near future. We also know quite well that we cannot do all of this in the main field, we must try to continue to force the honorary office in this area. I think we're on the right track, but further steps need to be taken.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9880	There is no further word. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 187 of the Supplements. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign of approval. - That's accepted. (E 35.) [[12:45:00]] 8. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 491/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the implementation and extension of the National Child Health Plan (188 d.b.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment 503/A(E) by Mrs Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues, on the abolition of self-sufficiency in the treatment of children and adolescents; and on Amendment 518/A(E) by Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues on the establishment of free therapies for children and adolescents (189 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9947	We come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e9974	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, As mentioned earlier, these are two different applications. The first is to speed up the development of the National Child Health Plan. This request was deliberately written very far-reaching by us, and yet an amendment has been made in the Committee, which has not included anything other than the request of the Federal Minister for Health to continue the implementation of the Health Plan. – May- Ladies and gentlemen, this is a little bit different from an extension, and we will therefore not agree to this new amendment. I would also like to point out that, of course, it is clear that the Federal Minister has to continue to implement what has already been done. There is no need for this; if he did not, he would not comply with his work. That is why it is completely incomprehensible. The second request is to abolish all restraints for therapies for children and young people. I believe that this would be a very useful and necessary measure, because the self-retainers are again, above all, socially weak parents whose children have certain disabilities or accidents – so it can happen to anyone. And these parents are often with the self-maintenance that they need to perform for various therapies, such as physiotherapy, psychotherapy, really financially exaggerated. I believe that the business card of the social state should also include how to deal with the challenge of child therapy. In the course of the budget debate, we also wanted to know how many ergotherapists there are in Austria who have a cash agreement. The Federal Minister has replied that it is all over Austria 61. I think it's a very weak sign when one saves exactly with the weakest of society. Moreover, we must not overlook this, many diseases that are treated in childhood and youth have lower or no more follow-up costs. Everything that can be done longer causes very high follow-up costs. Therefore, I do not understand a saving at this place and for me the argument money is only a proposed one. We need to think about the fact that there are more and more cosmetic operations that are paid by the public, but also more and more parents who do not know how to pay the necessary therapies for their children. I have already mentioned children who have suffered from cross-sectional paralysis, but also children who have serious injuries after accidents, who often need physiotherapy for months, whose parents have to bear not only the enormous effort of time but also extremely high costs. Children with behavioural conspicuousness can be treated much easier in childhood than in later years. Even the parents of children with eye problems, with sensory problems, have to pay a lot of money. – And now meet the socially weak. The less someone deserves, the more he has to spend. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not possible to suggest the cost as an argument against it – in reality, it is not more expensive, I have already mentioned it; but it is simply that you realize it only later. That is, we have the problem here again that a federal government thinks only in a legislative period and says: Until the follow-up costs are met, we are no longer responsible! This is very, very bad, because in the end the people concerned suffer from it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10032	Mrs Oberhauser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10053	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The beauty operations, paid by the public hand, are always the nice bets who come from your side and deny any reality, but are doing quite well, I say now. [[Abg. New builder: That's not true!]] That is why, in my opinion, I rightly condemn populism and incitement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: You have no idea!]] That children are not “small adults”, just as women do not need to “better men” about it, I think we need not discuss it, and a national health plan for children who are child-friendly is, I think, to support, to continue; all these things have to be done. They mix very much in this context. These are two applications to be dealt with: Removal of self-preserved, free therapies. These are completely different things. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: There are also two applications!]] They mix this in your speech, for example, with accident-damaged children, for whom parents have to pay very much for physiotherapy benefits. In the ASVG, if it is a contract performance – and physiotherapy after an accident is a contract performance – there is no payment. This is free of charge. One problem, I give you the right to do so, is that there may be too few people with a cash contract. But this is not a problem that a federal government can solve. This could solve a federal government by giving the health insurance companies an extremely high amount of money – yes, in which I also give you the right – but in principle this is a contract partner law. The fact that parents in particular have to pay for ill children who are ill with an accident, including children who are seriously injured, is a matter of contractual partner law. The question of ergotherapists is not a question of a regulation, a law, a Federal Minister, but a question of what constitutes a health insurance within the framework of self-management with its contractual partners. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Parliament can decide, however!]] No question, I mean that there is a need for re-examination, especially in the field of child and youth psychiatric systems – often quoted. But you should leave the church in the village. In principle, it is that we have self retention – we are the last ones to maintain self-maintained – and we also have a restraint where we know that parents of children and young people really pay, the costs for hospital stays. And that is exactly what our motion for a resolution, namely to call on the Minister to urge the countries in the next Article 15a agreements with the countries, to ensure that there is a free stay for children and young people to take at least this part of the burden on parents of seriously ill children.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10135	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10157	Mr President. Federal Minister! These two agenda items deal with three different requests. The proposal, which concerns the development and implementation of the National Child Health Plan, will be approved, because we know that there are shortcomings in this area in Austria and that a well-functioning child health plan with facts helps not only to talk about prevention, but also to really live and use prevention. There is hardly any health data in Austria as regards children and young people. For example, there are no detailed studies on the mother-child pass – with the exception of two federal states, I must say: Styria and Vorarlberg, where this is done. And there is also no information on how families with children are involved in prevention measures. Prevention is simply an extremely important part of health care, health reform, and therefore we must do everything we can to force prevention in childhood and youth. The second point concerns the therapies, i.e. the abolition of retention or free access to therapies. This is also to be welcomed, because we see that there is a danger that there will be two classes of children – similar to this morning in the discussion on remedial assistance – to children who come from a social, family environment where parents can afford these therapies, whether it be ergo or psychotherapy, the whole palette, and to children who come from families who cannot use this early warning system because they cannot afford it. Data and figures show that 10 to 15 percent of young people and children need temporary treatment as part of their development, and this is a very, very high percentage. Since, I think, there is an absolute need for action, especially because children cannot decide for themselves, but ultimately the family environment decides whether they can afford something or not. As the financial resources are always addressed, I must say: If we can afford a cash recovery package which has been sent very quickly on the journey, a package to ensure cash financing, without requiring compensation under the structural reform, then the necessary money must also be available quickly for our children and young people. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another request that we have made in committee concerns the abolition of self retention for children in hospital stays. Today, it is true that for co-insured children, care fees must be paid for hospital stays. Unfortunately, this is very different in the federal states: In Salzburg and Vorarlberg, for example, the parents costs their child's hospital stay up to €17 a day, which is up to €476 a year. These hospital self-retentions for children are 50 percent higher than the self-retaining for adults and are eliminated from our point of view as quickly as possible. Especially in times of an economic crisis where fathers, mothers, fathers, mothers have short work and every euro really needs to be used even more targetedly, there must be no problem if a child is ill when a child has to go to the hospital that one may not be able to afford that one cannot pay for it. That is why we want this restraint to be abolished quickly. The parents are mentally burdened anyway when a child is in the hospital, and one should take this financial burden on the parents. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, but you, Mr Federal Minister, too, recognize this problem that we have and, above all, also put pressure on the active persons, pressure also on the countries that need to be involved here, and send a signal towards children's and youth health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10248	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10311	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10333	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! As a doctor, I have become accustomed to two principles in my work: first of all: looking exactly – who does not look closely can see anything –; second: Only those who make an accurate diagnosis can also make the right therapy. My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I think all of us here are actually “small doctors” or demanded as “small doctors”, because the activity of a parliamentarian is often not so different from the activity of a doctor: Those who work exactly will achieve better results. The same is true of the children's health plan. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Do we even need such plans?, many will ask. Yes, I do! I do not want arbitrary provision or random provision, but I would like to know exactly where something is necessary. Believe me, as a Viennese, as a Meidlinger, I know quite exactly what is going on in my next environment, but it would really be measured, I would say, I know what is going on in Vorarlberg or in Styria or what you need there. That's why we need experts and experts who tell us: What is it, what do we need at all, and where do we need it? – It cannot be the goal that we have some wild growth, but we really need targeted plans that you can discuss. Only if you have a plan that you decide together – because only something that is carried together will be implemented, otherwise you will produce plans for the table drawer – only if you have a plan can you follow a target and check the target later. A very important point is the objective review. For me, quality means not only letting some mountains disappear from data in any store – I refer to the “quality bureaucrats” that are building up internationally – but quality also has an ethical aspect for me. Quality means: How do I deal with the little ones, the weakest of society? That is why the initiative of the pediatricians Waldhauser and Thun-Hohenstein is very, very important to me! Even if you say that we have deficits, we are missing €70 million – should be, I cannot check that in detail. But I certainly know one thing: I know that many children are in a poverty-education case. If parents lack education but are also poor, then the danger is very, very great that they will not find access to the public health system. What can the little children do to ensure that the parents have not been able to do anything about it? That's the key question! If they have no offer, no low-sleep cash supply, Minister, then there is a 100% holding. Then we don't need to talk about 3, 4 or 5 €, because if someone doesn't get anything, he can buy it privately at most. It is not clear to me at all that one is so nonchalant about it and says: There is hardly any logopaedic care, ergotherapeutic care and so on. As a youth, I have had an S-error myself; I know what it means in school when you're being held up. I now have a patient who is still stuttering at the age of 30 and who has never been cared for. In fact, there is no need for such a thing to exist in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] That's why I stick to it – first: look at it, second thing: accurate diagnosis! We're all required. I would add a third point: A little heart does good everywhere: in economy, in politics, because when you see things with your heart, you often see them something different. I'll say, When we look, for example, we will finally solve the problem of child rehabilitation. In Austria, more than 200 000 people travel for rehabilitation every year, sometimes with doubts: Is it really necessary for someone to go on a cure? – But I certainly know one thing: For the 180 children who have children's cancer, it's really a martyrdom! This is a struggle for life and death that goes on for months. These are little heroes in my eyes; I would often not get through that. [[General condolences.]] What the families participate in, even the siblings who are neglected at that time, is not without it! I don't realize at all that we're sending the children to the Black Forest just because we're unable to find a solution in Austria. I think we should jump a little over our shadows and look not only at them, but also quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10406	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10427	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I have to give my colleague Erwin Rasinger the right. But let's stay realistic: We're making plans. I have here the smoke-callat plan in front of me; that's just the short version, and it's already 30 pages, but there's also a long version. Many international experts have worked on this, and the question is now: Then what? – Once an evaluation is made, once a plan is made. But once I want to see something! You can also forge marriage plans until retirement, or an architect draws a plan, but never builds a house. What are you doing? I'm doing something I don't do, and I'm gonna make a recommendation. There is a book entitled “Practiced. ” Children without medicine?’ on problems of child medicine. It was written by those doctors who mentioned colleague Rasinger, Waldhauser and others. They describe on 200 pages where something is not optimal and where there are gross deficits in the care of children. The book has triggered a scandal with two chapters because it was described that in very recognized centers the results in heart surgery and liver transplants were worse than in another center or possibly too little transplanted. Over all the other 90 percent of the pages did not discuss people, but one should also talk about them! Minister Stöger has said – and he is right there – of course, in Austria de facto everyone and everyone also as a child receives benefits when they are requested. But we haven't been talking about financing since the very beginning! I am aware that these child health plans and their improvement are not easy to achieve when the checkouts stand with the back to the wall. You don't talk about it anymore. The fact that savings packages will come is said here without a break, but no one dares to say the following: It is becoming closely involved in health financing. Therefore, we should talk about it: Is one willing to put needed money into the hospital care, yes or no? This is not just a question of ability, but primarily one of will. It is easy to calculate that meaningful investments also have a return on state, population and, of course, the sick. Neuro-rehabilitation: Children also have skull injuries after accidents and may have brain bleeding. If I am not willing to invest there, I have lifelong care cases; that also costs something! [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Why do such arguments not help at all? – A hundred times I can play “Herzblatt” and get a hundred applauses here: If nothing happens, all of this will be of no use! But quite banal bills show that the investments are meaningful. The WHO speaks of a maximum lack in the child and youth psychiatric system. If not treated and diagnosed in good time, the chronically ill children, who are unable to work at school, will have difficulties and will be unemployed at a high percentage. Is that all free? Why don't I take care that there's a better supply, even if it's tight? – I think these things are just essential. Finally, the benefits: I've been looking at how many Ergo or language therapists there are. There are a lot, but do you know what they get? Do you know how many times some checkouts pay for a therapy? Children with birth defects, spastic children need a Bobath therapy, including physical therapy. In the past, two, three hours a week were paid, and that was also necessary. Now it's two hours, then only one, then one with self-retaining. Some people, old and young, are not even undressed, and the therapist is looking at the clock. The therapy does not last 45 minutes, it only lasts 30 minutes, with some checkouts 20 minutes. That can't be it, it's expensive for us. Heart or heart – it's even right for me to do it without a heart, but it has to happen! Federal Minister Stöger, please see that the child health plan of your predecessor or predecessor gets one or two feet on the ground! Then it takes more steps, again and again, but no more plans, but it's about implementing the plans.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10489	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10507	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think the issue of child health and child health plan is a very, very important issue, and it also makes it clear that we need to look very closely and differentiate in health care. We must distinguish, especially in therapies: How to deal with adults? How do you deal with children? What opportunities do children have for access to the health system in general? We have put in place many measures to facilitate the easy access of children to the health system. I also remember the mother-child pass, which Austria can represent positively towards the world. The health plan for children is structurally necessary to keep an eye on child health. As far as the requirement that health should also be financed is concerned, I would like to thank all those Members who made their contribution during the last vote to the fact that it has become possible to make additional money available for the financing of Austrian health insurance schemes, because this means that new benefits can also be offered to the group of children. We are currently raising where child rehabilitations are necessary, which facilities we have and how we need to focus on the specific needs of children, in terms of schooling and the like. We have been able to make sure that there are daily clinics for children so that the care is carried out. It is also always necessary to interact between the social sector, youth welfare and health care in order to be able to provide suitable health measures for children. It is particularly important to highlight the question of parental support. In the area of the Supreme Council of Sanity, we have ensured that we have our own Children's Commission and are sensitive to the particular problem situation of children in the health system. Here one should continue to work and also differentiate. I would remind you of the previous vote: In the field of medical education, we have already made an improvement in gaps such as the child and youth psychiatric system today. Please allow me a brief opinion on the subject of Contergan. We have taken up this issue since I was in office as Minister of Health. This is very important to me personally, but not only to me, but also to my employees this issue is very important. In order to raise the group of persons, we have set up an advertisement in the “Zerzte Zeitung” so that we can determine who in Austria is actually affected by it. To this day, 32 people have reported. We are also in contact with the health authorities in the Federal Republic of Germany, which has made it possible for Austrians to submit a request for German legislation to be covered by the Fund. This will also apply in the future. We also have discussions with the pharmaceutical industry in order to allow the persons concerned to receive the appropriate support. But it is quite, very important that we also establish a pharmaceutical law that excludes such developments for the future. I thank you for further developing pharmaceutical law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10558	The next speaker was Mr Hechtl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10580	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! The National Child Health Plan is an important basis for further development and development of the medical care of our children. The best possible access to a high-quality Health care for children is given particular attention, although it has changed in principle over the last ten years. The “Austrian Health Plan for Children” has also been established. As early as November 2004, the results of the working group were presented and recommendations made by experts – recommendations that have already been implemented. A permanent Committee on Child Medicine has been set up since 2007 and is available to the Federal Minister for the treatment of important issues. Knowledge and recommendations have already been successfully implemented. This applies, for example, to the recommendations on improving paediatric training. Work is constantly being carried out on the implementation of further results and recommendations of the working group. Our common objective must be to continue and implement the findings and recommendations of this working group in order to achieve the desired and further improvement in the quality of our health care system. In my opinion, with the request for the Minister of Health to continue implementing the extension of the national action plan, it is ensured that medical care is ensured at the highest level for our small patients and that an improvement is initiated where necessary. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Medicine and medical care costs money, so there is also a need for appropriate investment. Investments in children's health are also investments that are rational for the people and investments in our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10622	Mr Dr Karlsböck spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10643	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grünewald, I am right to say that a weakness in our health system is the continuous evaluation and creation of any plans that ultimately disappear into drawers and are not implemented. The agenda item that we are now dealing with symbolizes in the broadest sense these mishaps in the health system. First of all, this is the development of plans which are ultimately not implemented, and at the same time the complete absence of a general plan, if one wants to say so, of a national health plan, which is thought of in all possible facets, but due to various structural problems, the complexity of the structures and, above all, the range of competence between the country, the federal government and the like. Secondly, the best plan does not benefit if we build up barriers and then this plan cannot be used by those who are being made for it or can at least be used insufficiently because of the very construction of barriers. These barriers are called self-retainers, and these self-retainers are basically a shame in our modern social system – that must be said so openly! We say that the self-preservations are unfair, they build barriers, and they are a common cause for every social politician and health politician, even for the entire social and health system of a developed country. I constantly hear from the social democracy and also from the trade union that this self-preservation also That's how it's seen. Therefore, I wonder why one does not go here and seek ways to really abolish this restraint. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know – and I really hate to repeat, since I have already explained this a few times – that it would naturally be difficult to get started and there would be a financial starting point for the abolition of the budget for both health insurance and health insurance in general. But in the medium term – and in the long term anyway – this could even be a business for the Republic. Here only the small example is suggested again, once again explains: If today, due to the high self-retaining in the settled area, for example in dentistry, someone deviates, then he goes to neighboring abroad. There he can make certain things. He then submits this to the health insurance fund without any restraint and receives it. This means that the money he has received has flown abroad and has strengthened the economy there. That can't be our way, and that can't be our intention! Mr Minister, we cannot, of course, make a global impact on the whole today, as we imagine, we know. That is why it is important in a sub-area, in pediatrics, to begin, where today, that has been said many times, to really meet the weakest of the weak, where even the relatives are confronted with a financial emergency, regardless of the psychological suffering they experience. This proposal is being tabled. Again: We urge in all urgency to rethink and abolish the restraints. You will find in us, in the opposition co-deputies when you take this path. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10705	Mrs Steibl is speaking on behalf of the last provisional speaker. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10726	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Karlsböck, in our social security system, there is already a largely non-contributory family insurance, especially from the point of view of social compensation, I call that. It is true, however, that you are right in the ASVG there is a share of costs in some areas when a benefit is used for a family member. In this context, however, I would also like to point out that a good step has already been taken by the last government in limiting self retention and that the prescription fee has been limited by 2% of net income per year. However, this clearly does not mean that there are no further improvements and that there must be no further developments or discharges. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not really easy, we see that too, and here I am also my previous speakers, whether it be Mrs Oberhauser or Mrs Ursula Haubner, who have been very grateful to the opportunities for improving young people and children. We have tabled an amendment to the Committee calling on the Minister of Health to discuss with the countries the possibility of reducing or abolishing self retention during hospital stays. To talk to children – in preparation for the next 15a agreement on the organisation and financing of health care. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In particular, the Article 15a agreements on the organisation and financing of health care by the Federal Government and the Länder make this possible, and I do not fully understand why the countries are not already doing this. I am thinking of the Styrian university clinics and of other clinics that have immense graduations, so it comes to this small amount, I don't think, either. But we're negotiating there. I think this step will come and have to come. I would ask the Minister of Health to speak here for the benefit of our children a word of power towards countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10783	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 188 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 36.) Finally, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 189 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This too is the majority and thus adopted. (E 37.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleagues on the abolition of hospital detention for children. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[13:25:04]] 10. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 565/A(E) by Dr Wolfgang Spadiut, colleagues on the upgrading of the e-card by additional functions (190 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10863	We're on the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Spadiut. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10890	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! E-cards are stolen, smeared, it is driven by massive abuse. In the previous year, 198 617 e-cards disappeared, 53 996 were reported as stolen and 158 625 were withdrawn as a defect. The necessary new exhibitions require expenditure of €2.1 million. Ladies and gentlemen, all these figures prove that people do not recognise the value of e-cards or are not yet considered to be given. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: This also applies to banknote cards!]] So many are not lost. You don't take care of your e-card, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Grosz: Matznetter loses everything at all: e-cards, elections, the government office!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Have you never lost anything?]] There are, of course, several advantages due to the storage of different data. The benefits of the immediately available data are undisputed, but there is also the fact that the storage of the data in humans awakens the awareness of the e-card to have something personal, important in the hand, with which one has to deal with carefully and responsibly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There are several data that should be saved. First, the blood group – the advantage is that in an accident blood transfusion can be carried out immediately without major examinations – the drug intolerance – here there is the advantage of preventing the risk of anaphylactic shock and subsequent death – registration of protective vaccinations – 57 percent of Austrians forget to refresh protective vaccinations, of which only 6 percent of the entire population are reminded by the doctors. 79 percent of Austrians are in a database for the inclusion of personal data. Furthermore, one could store patient supplies – as one saves the long search, whether or not there are any, registration of implants and also the storage of photos would be possible. This would limit the abuse and fulfill the requirement that not only our seniors, but also the ÖVP and SPÖ seniors, can use this e-card as an ID card to obtain benefits such as for example in the case of transport operators. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The storage of all these data also makes an abuse pointless – for who is at risk of being infused with false blood transfusion, for example, by the wrong storage of the blood group and thereby, as said, an anaphylactic shock and death? In the same way as in the event of drug intolerance: There is no need to avoid life-saving and life-saving drugs here. Ladies and gentlemen! Although the Committee has voted against this request by all parties, you will be able to see how good and useful this request is for a short or long time – and then you will agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10965	The next speaker was Mrs Csörgits. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e10987	Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen. In this context, I should like to point out, as I have said before, that it is not intended to use the e-card as a personal ID card. That is not foreseen. In connection with some of the other comments you have made, with regard to upgrading the e-card, for example, by registering the blood group, but also many other, certainly very important data, I would like to point out that at our meeting of the Health Committee on 5 October, we are going to have to report to you on this. In March, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. have decided to decide on the resolution in which the Federal Minister for Health is asked to consider what measures need to be taken to make existing identity control more effective when using the e-card and to further develop it, because it is quite simply important that it can be proved that the person carrying this e-card is also really the one who belongs to the e-card. Nothing would be more terrible than if people had a different e-card, for whatever reason, by chance with them, or if an accident caused such chaos that you can no longer assign the e-cards properly. Therefore, I would like to refer to this motion for a resolution and I am sure that the outstanding officials of our Federal Ministry, under the direction of our Minister of Health, will also do good preparatory work in order to take sensible action. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11023	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11044	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! When the e-card was introduced in 2006, it was a special milestone in the social policy of Austria. Although in the past very often discussed or found that the government did not do much good from 2000 to 2006, this e-card project was a government project from 2000 to 2006. It was commissioned in 2003 and entered into use more or less from 2005. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the BZÖ.]] - The applause applies to the government! The e-card has cost a total of € 102 million and is now used by 8 million Austrians. The e-card is really the key to the health system. If today's desire or a resolution has already been submitted to the Committee to enrich the e-card, I can tell you that the second generation of e-cards is currently being made and that, although important medical data are not stored on the e-card but on the server, the user has access to this data. I think that's a sensible and good thing. So you also know how often the e-card is used: There were 102 million interventions in 2007, so 102 million times the e-card has been used or used. Whenever it is discussed today or whenever, that we have to do something against abuse, I think we should talk about it. Perhaps it succeeds in passionately talking about it. – Yes, it is true, we have about 4 per cent of the need for improvement in the year due to lost e-cards, broken e-cards, by e-cards. That's all, please, right. With regard to control, I would have two proposals. The first: I think it's the users, these are the doctors, reasonable that they also check the identity. [[Demonstrative applause of Members Jury and Mayerhofer.]] It is the signature on it at the back of the e-card. It is only necessary to demand that the user determines the identity of the staff. I think that's feasible and reasonable. Secondly, as a social insurance manager, I also see a challenge for social security schemes as having intelligent computer systems. And if conspicuousness is found here in consumption, one could take this out and have a conversation with the assigned doctor or with the assigning body about it. I think it's important to really talk about these things. Otherwise, it is my concern that, for example, the patient presence we are discussing here and have already decided to receive a comment, so that it can be read from the e-card, that there is a patient presence and that this will of a person who can no longer act is really documented. I think it would also make sense to hold the protective vaccinations and some emergency data. Overall, I think we will implement a number of important and good projects in the near future. I'll get it to the point: The e-card is something to envy us – without exaggeration – all of Europe. This is an Austrian quality product, because of which people from other countries really come and ask: How are you doing? And we are already before entering the second generation, where we are preparing mistakes that exist everywhere, of course, and I hope that with this new edition and with the addition to the server we will really have a great thing that is open to all Austrians for use. I think that is the goal, and we will not only work on it, but we will also consistently implement this objective.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11103	The next speaker was Mr Neubauer. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11124	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Donabauer, I can give you almost all that you have said in your remarks, and I can only agree with that. But precisely because the purchase of this e-card cost more than €100 million and is unique, we should really consider how to make further use of this e-card really possible. Then it really doesn't have to reach 10, 15 or 18 million €, as I mean when it comes to enabling the citizens of this country to improve this e-card according to their personal needs. For example, I am thinking only of the decision of the Council of Seniors, which was unanimous when it came to equiping the e-card with a photo so that you can also use this e-card as a personal ID card, so that this e-card could automatically be used as a pension card, which would be unique in Austria, because it was not yet possible – which is also not understandable, because the possibilities given by the new passport law could have also been applied to the e-card. But that's not what happened. You, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, have taken a course against the will of the Council of Senior Citizens, and I do not understand it; but you are defending this conservative path. Has It is the courage to continue the way for the future of people in this country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Dear Dr. Spadiut, you have mentioned here that you want to extend the e-card in many areas, including many areas that we consider more critical as a liberal, because this would also be contrary to the valid provisions of data protection. And you yourself – perhaps you also promised – said, Dr. Spadiut: Nothing worse can happen – And I have written this – as if by wrong storage of a wrong blood type someone should get into a bad distress. Maybe you promised, but at least you said so. That's exactly the problem: If through abuse or error there is really a false storage, who controls it? Who can ensure that such mistakes do not happen? The same applies to protective vaccinations, implants. And that's why we can get something from an extension of the e-card, but to the extent that you're demanding it here, unfortunately not. That is why we cannot agree to your request either.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11179	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11200	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As one of those who had the luck or the luck to accompany the e-card project from the beginning, you become a little milder after this many years of e-card project, and it was not just a success project. Of course, I am glad that we have a map that hopefully will soon be available to all those who depend on Austrian health care. We still have the problem with the social assistance workers, which is also regulated. But beyond this question and beyond the fact that it took so long, and that some, let us say, in the process, transparency, what the pricing of the e-card project, which has been divided into sub-branches, has been done, of course, I think it is good and fine that we now have this project the way it is. But since the beginning there were wishes from various sides to make a bank card out of it, I can still remember it. It was a completely crazy idea to connect the bank card with it; this would be a supplier in the sector. But be it, there would be other problems. The next one was – and I come to the request myself – the idea of storing the emergency data. That was at the time of the ÖVP FPÖ government, but I think this project came from the FPÖ. Now this can be found with the storage of emergency data. For years, you from the FPÖ or the BZÖ – let me just, Mr Donabauer – have implemented the project. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer]] Some of the reasons for failure to store emergency data are clear: This, apart from data protection reasons, is also due to the fact that, in the event of an emergency, of course, every medical professional would be obliged not only to rely on the data on the card, but to carry out the examination himself. Otherwise, it might be that the card of another person would be in use and the patient would be mistreated; that is, we have a huge problem. On the other hand, of course, data-law reasons have also been claimed. Only: We have already had this debate. We've led them here – and now that's why it's coming back! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kickl and Mr Ursula Haubner.]] The group that requested this was unable to implement it – for good reasons. Only you could go here now and say: Yes, we wanted this and learned from it, it's not going and it's not worth it. But no! What are you doing? – They make this demand anew and make proposals such as: If we store the blood group, we store information about the drug intolerance on it, we make an electronic vaccination card out of it, we store emergency data and patient supplies on it, we make a personal ID of it! And so on. This is a summary of applications, which, of course, is taken for themselves by everyone who is not closer to matter, first of all trigger the reaction, which is obviously also intended to: Why not? Let's talk about it! Only: We've talked about it a hundred times. Now it comes again and again, up to the latest application: Let's get a ID card out of it! We have already held this debate in committee and here in plenary several times. You know how large the photos are, you know what inadequacies or risks there are – unless you take such EU-standard photos that now have to be placed on the passports. Only: As on the e-card the photos are so large, so not suitable to be able to distinguish actual identities! [[the speaker, with his fingers, represents the size of the photos]] Finally, Mr Donabauer: Even if there is probably some improvement in the relationship between patients and doctors, the proposal that you have made now – that if the patient enters the practice of a doctor’s office, he will give a sample of signatures that is comparable to a signature on the e-card – is probably inappropriate! I would not call it a basis for a trusting relationship between the doctor and the patient – which we need – when a signature sample is made and the doctor may then join the graphologist who checks whether this signature sample corresponds to what is placed on the e-card. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek]] No, it doesn't! You have said a lot of right points, but please bring this debate back down a little, too many additional applications, especially in the direction of the BZÖ! It really doesn't!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11294	Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11316	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We see it in our circle: Each of us probably has the e-card with it. This is a success! The e-card is intended – I am largely with you, Dr. Spadiut – and will receive further functions. But we should not overstep each other at the pace! Austria has opted for the policies of the small steps – and that is, I think, well so; because, if we look at Germany, there are considerable problems there because the project claims to specify all events in advance. Therefore, it is better to expand the e-card step by step on a solid basis. That's fine. Since May there is the electronic health notice, the electronic transfer to other doctors is running in trial operation, we promise ourselves a lot of electronic authorisation service. What will it be like? For example, physical treatments and spa stays are electronically approved – i.e. less bureaucracy, more service for patients. Of course, we want to see a lot faster in the interests of patients. For example, why can't the vaccination data be stored on the map? I'll be right there with you. Hand on your heart, who always knows when the next vaccination will be due? Here, the electronic vaccination card could ensure more vaccination protection. Safety keyword: The pharmacovigilance belt is a project that is especially dear to us seniors. It benefits people who need several medications. The e-card checks the interactions of these medicines, ensuring that the best possible treatment is performed. What does that bring? More benefits for patients – and that is good. On the controversial topic of photo on the e-card: The senior council wishes this photo on the e-card to also win a senior ID card. We're not going to let go of that. However, we also accept that the most useful solution is now being examined by experts. It's probably gonna take some time. Conclusion should be: more benefit for patients again. That means we are looking forward to further functions, but we should also give ourselves the time to test meaningful solutions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11379	Mr Dr Karlsböck has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11400	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It makes no sense now to reheat the partly correct and good arguments of the many previous speakers on this issue. I would also like to say that Mr Spadiut's request has its legitimacy; however, before we come to the very core, we have to deal with fundamental issues – and I have missed this fundamental discussion since the beginning of the e-card. I am referring to the fundamental debate on how we deal with this flood of information that is flooding with us today. How do we deal with saving data? Do we see this as a problem or a positive challenge? Do we see this negative in relation to the issues of security, control and abuse, or do we see it more positive, in connection with convenience, comfort and immediate availability of data? I miss it. If we have made the decision as to how we want to deal with it – I personally tend to be on the positive side – then we can begin to break our heads about how we continue to deal with such an existing technical means or medium as the e-card. I say, both as a patient and as a user on the other hand, that the technical feasibility of many things required here is simply not given at the moment and that many things are actually too insecure. Mr Stöger, I would also like to point out something else in this context, something that we have already discussed before, which falls into the great field of the health plan or a plan of calling health care: This would, for example, be a basic screening or a survey of health at a certain age, namely at the transition from youth to adult, about 18 years old. I'm missing something that's actually on the street if you want to say it so fluffily: Young men are examined medically in the position, but this data will not remain for the patient or for the young Man available. That is, they are then located somewhere in a server in the army hospital or anywhere and do not find the way to the patients. But if that were so, the young man would have a starting value of a certain state of health for his remaining life – and it can't be negative to have such a thing! In this context, we have, of course, called for this for women. The feasibility – whether this is happening in the position road or elsewhere – can be discussed for a long time. I just meant that this was an immediate and common way away from any militarism. In conclusion and in summary: The e-card is an enrichment in certain areas, namely in the basic areas of billing for health insurance. It takes a low-grade upgrade, as we also demand it in the sense of a senior card or more. However: For large changes in storage – starting from emergency data upwards – the system is not yet ripe. There you can only recommend to access other systems that are already more mature.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11459	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 190 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[13:51:49]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 566/A(E) by Mrs Ursula Haubner, Members of Parliament on the rapid evaluation of performance information (191 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11508	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hechtl has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11535	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! Due to a legal contract in the General Social Security Act, the performance information was introduced in 2008. It sends some 5.7 million letters of information to the insured throughout Austria. The contract thus ensures that every insured person receives once a year a benefit information about the benefits he receives from the social security scheme. This information is used as an information about the expired calendar year and will be published in the period of 1. ==References== In October of the following year. With the establishment of the live online survey, the insured can now at any time take a look at and print out from home and from their personal place in their service sheet. By means of a sign language video, this information has been expanded for an additional group of people, and with the live online survey, these insured persons can now take special note of their services. This performance information database is constantly growing and has already been expanded several times. In addition to conventional information, such as medical assistance, the preventive examination, the medications, their services, for example, it has been extended beyond the performance range of the diabetic in the fields of healing and oxygen supply. This comprehensive performance information introduces a personal, unlimited transparency in the field of social security provision. However, ladies and gentlemen, this should not prevent the continuous expansion of this information fill, further adapt the needs, make it more efficient, increase transparency and raise the awareness of the insured. This request, which calls on the Federal Minister for Health to evaluate the instrument of performance information and to seek proposals from the main association in order to increase the cost awareness of insured persons, I believe that a clear commitment to an evaluation of performance information and to increase the awareness of costs is initiated.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11581	Mr Donabauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11602	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Another supplement to the e-card topic. The e-card is also the European Health Insurance Card, which allows you to charge and charge your health insurance benefits throughout the EU as well as on Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland. This is to be supplemented with the general description. Now to this item on the agenda: The BZÖ has tabled a resolution to draw attention to the fact that the Court of Auditors is encouraging an evaluation of the annual performance information. Mr Collegue, that did not come about in 2008 or 2007, the so-called performance information for insured persons dates back to earlier years! So you've certainly learned one thing or another. Yes, it is true that it is a comprehensive information about services from medical assistance to dental care, medications, cures and, of course, also medical examinations. What can you say about that? About 6.5 million letters a year will be sent, costing approximately 3.5 million €. If it is suggested that you make this information quarterly, you can talk about it. But you also have to talk about the fact that the first thing costs a lot of money and, secondly, often leads to irritation. I think that an annual information is sufficient, especially since – and that is what my previous speaker said very aptly – everyone can retrieve their data about live online and thus collect their data. That too, I think, is a correct thing. What is still to be noted in this whole matter? First: I hear very often that insured people say: Look, I didn't use that at all, I can't even do that! – Yes, it is a very positive information towards cost awareness. It is also an indirect control of the entire provision of services because the insured can question whether and how these services were actually provided and settled. Furthermore, this performance information is, of course, also a subject where the different systems have very different tariffs, so that in a family where there are multiple insurances, of course there are also irritations or differences of opinion regarding the size of the benefits that are taken into account here. But this is system-immanent, which is an expression of the fact that we have a wide range of performance systems in Austria, no matter how you stand for it. This has tradition. Perhaps this may become the basis for constructive discussions in the next few days. Better harmonisation in this area would certainly be of interest to all. In principle, the following can be said: This project, this performance information is a positive thing – not only to the ASVG, but to all systems. And, of course, there will be no question of where lessons have been drawn from the last few years to improve one or another. But I think that shorter intervals are not planned for the moment – for the reasons already mentioned: this causes a lot of work and costs. I think that we are on the road across Europe and will continue in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11665	Mr Vock. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11687	We hear from Mr Donabauer again and again that the patients would be so satisfied with these performance information sheets. I just don't know which patients he questioned. When I talk to patients, I always hear other messages. Many say that they simply throw these information sheets unreadly into the dung cube. Shame for the money we spend on it! [[Abg. Dolinschek: That has already been said!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Healthy people get empty leaves and rain on them that they get empty information sheets or that they are accused – an accusation! – that they visit a precautionary examination because of the cost of health care as well. Sick people, especially older people, see in this performance information the accusation of how much they cost the state, and then consider saving by not taking drugs or not picking up or saving medical visits so that they do not fall to the burden. That can't be a point of information. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Ikrath and Gahr.]] Those who misuse this system certainly cannot be told about it with this performance information, for these people are aware of what they are doing and what damage they are doing to the state. This means that other control systems should be considered here. I also understand the intention of the original request to provide this performance information more often or immediately, because if, for example, I have given my daughter's e-card out of hand, I might want to see if an abuse has taken place. I do not want to wait for a year, but to make it quick. You can do that online. In fact, this annual shipping costs €3.5 million, of which € 2.8 million alone costs the Porto. Of course one can say that this is an economic promotion to the post office, and one is doing an indirect promotion of the post. I can quite imagine that this will be done in the sense of economic promotion, but that should not be the system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] We liberals say yes to this patient information, but the delivery or collection should be the technical possibilities of the 21st. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11745	Next, Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11767	High house! Mr President. Yes, we need more transparency in the health system. The request for evaluation of the cost information submitted by us is a step towards greater transparency. The Court of Auditors has also confirmed this. In addition, we need new approaches in the health system. We need to focus more on prevention, because when it comes to saving costs in the health system, prevention is the best means of doing so, and unfortunately we are spending far too little money in this area. I would like to address a point which is particularly accessible to prevention, namely age diabetes. We know that age diabetes, which suffers from 500 000 Austrians, would be avoidable. If you look at the cost alone: A patient who is plagued by age diabetes costs the health system 2 200 € per year, which is an annual sum of over 1 billion € that would be spent on a treatment that would be avoidable if we were to take the right measures. If you look at the cost of the consequences of this age diabetes – in other words, inability to work, cardiovascular disease, kidney failure, stroke – well over €4 billion. . This number should give us reason to think, and these costs would be avoidable, we would do something in time. Through a healthier lifestyle, through healthy nutrition, more exercise, this would be almost completely avoidable. Now there are many who say: You can't intervene here, because everyone has the right to be systematically downrooted, and if someone really wants to feed himself incorrectly, thereby putting his body out of enormous strains and finally getting old age diabetes, that's his good right. – In principle I go d’accord, that is his good right. But if you have to bear the cost of it, it's on a different sheet. But if you look at the children, the thing looks different. I have cases of eight to ten years of age who have been consistently malnourished – and then have developed an age diabetes at the age of ten, which has usually occurred only in forty or older people a few decades ago. That means we have a massive problem here. Because of the enormous overweight that some children already have very early, the age diabetes is already occurring in childhood and youth, and this is a development that should really give us massive thought. As far as we are, one sees a case of Lower Austria. I was with a mother who has two children at the age of two and four. I have been with her for a relatively long time and have also seen what she gives her children so to eat – from junk food to sweets to anything. I have referred to it and asked if it does not believe that this diet will ultimately cause serious problems in the health of its children. What do you think she said? – She said: There is no problem with my children because I give them at least once a day a dwarf of fruit. – You have to imagine that. That is, ignorance is extremely advanced. I don't think many parents are feeding their children wrong, because they do it out of bad intentions. It is often ignorance, it is the lack of time, it is also the social component that is involved here. That is, we need to do something here like other countries, such as Denmark, Portugal, Malta – even Malta has better measures than we in Austria –. In fact, we are not dealing with this problem at all. If we continue in this way, we will have over 1 million Austrians suffering from age diabetes in 30 years with all the negative consequences. According to an investigation, it will even be so that some develop an age diabetes even before they have the training at all, and then are already inability to work accordingly. You have to imagine that. It is therefore high time that Mr Health Minister – now I have to address you – took action. We hear this “blablage wash” all the time: We're doing something anyway, we're doing prevention, education, but it's not getting money in hand, it's not moving anything substance. This is a problem that we now have to deal with in a massive way, otherwise we are wasting our future. That is why I tell you, Minister: Get to work!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11834	Mr Grünewald came next. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11855	Mr President. Federal Minister! The question: Once a day a fruit dwarf or once a year a performance information?, would be worth an evaluation – what's better, what brings more? You always hear, the cost information makes the patient aware of the blessings of the state they receive from the cash registers. That's the question. When you get it once a year – I experience it myself with me – and then you have to track back what was ten months ago, that's not that easy. Expectations are probably going empty. Furthermore, it would be critical to note that the patient and the patient have relatively little influence on what the service providers recommend to her or him and what happens to costs. They have the influence that they can decide whether to go to the doctor or not. But we want them to when they spend higher see, say: No, I'm not allowed to go to a doctor or a doctor for half a year!Unknown term type: "%s".? I don't think that's gonna work. And to generate guilt among those who are really sick, I also consider it counterproductive and not very moral. You know that 20 percent of insured people cause 80 percent of the benefits and costs, and these are not so-called hypochonders or Monday bluemakers, which are seriously ill and chronically ill people. These read this over and over again, and should they “hamdrahn” – in Vienna? Is that what they're paying for? – I think you should do it differently. I know the doctor's chamber has no pleasure, but in every department store I get an invoice, with every tailor – to which I don't go, I buy my clothes finished – or at every washing machine repair, at every car service. The doctor's chamber or service providers say: If we do, our operation will collapse. Are “BILLA” or “C&A” collapsed because they issue invoices? Has an installer gone pleading because he's making bills? There I have the immediate experience. But achieving cost-consciousness without really triggering something in patients, that alone is too little. That is why the Court of Auditors' evaluation is good. At €3 million a year, sometimes four, you might also be able to do other reasonable things. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11898	Next, Mr. Dr. Karlsböck. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11919	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to make a few brief points at the end of this item on the agenda. In the discussion on these performance information sheets, I have missed the fact that in some form it would have been possible to address the motivation from which this is being motivated. Mr Donabauer – They are quite specific – the consequence of evaluating these performance information sheets out of the stomach, so to speak, is: They create a bad conscience in the patients, they insecure the patient, and they put the medical profession a little under the general suspicion that they need a control because they're all such a bit of a Gauner anyway – and there you can save money. On the other hand, I say to you that the potential for savings in the case of these performance information sheets is almost zero if they are not even cost-producers! We have heard: the empty leaves that are sent out, and the administrative burden to be incurred. We liberals say: If a service information takes place, then this is a positive thing, but as has already been said today, it should be done by modern electronic means, just by means of access via computer. There is, of course, a problem with data security, and that must be said. In any case: If performance information, then so – but not at all, as the original application was, four times a year on the post; that would be completely absurd. With the amended proposal, as it is now before the vote, we can befriend and will therefore agree with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e11971	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 191 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 38.) [[14:12:04]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment 178/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues with regard to the obligation of manufacturers of mobile phones to indicate the SAR value (192 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12021	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Moser spoke. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12048	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Health Minister, above all! The labelling of technical equipment is not only very important for health policy, but also purely informative consumer policy. I believe that what you are proposing here is the need to identify mobile devices with regard to the thermal intensity of their radiation, and then to move this request away from the Committee on Health, as it were, to the Committee on Technology. I can explain this precisely to you on the basis of two or three reasons. Mr Health Minister, we know that there is a huge gap in the current Federal Ministry Act, and this big gap is: Where are the competences to protect against non-ionizing radiation? It should be known to you, Minister of State Stöger, that I have already been talking to your predecessor about this, and that is why I can say: It is, as it were, a constant black-Peter cycle, who is responsible as Minister for the manufacture of mobile phones and can be used in such a way that they are not harmful to health. The Vienna Chamber of Physicians, the Austrian Chamber of Physicians, the Supreme Council of Sanity, all these competent bodies that are in your field of activity, warn in their ordinations, repeatedly in their broadcasts that, as far as mobile phones are concerned, caution is appropriate in children. Therefore, no excessive phone calls, best not at all in childhood; young people up to the age of 16, 17 are supposed to watch out for cell phone calls. Parents, especially pregnant mothers, must also be particularly careful and should progress with exemplary function. I would like to present a study to you immediately, over 4,000 mothers in Denmark. Mr Minister, this is really a very good field study on mothers in Denmark who have handyphoned as high-pregnants, and a comparison group has not done so. After ten years, the behaviour of young people has been examined. Result: Adolescents with increased mobile phone use are less concentrated and also have more behavioural disorders. The is a completely valid study, which was very serious in the Scandinavian area. In view of this situation, I say that you, as Minister of Health, must finally become active there. But what happens? – The whole thing is being moved to the technology area. And I know how in the technology sector the watches tick or evaluations are running there. There such a study is irrelevant. But I don't accuse a technician of saying, Health is not my primary concern! The Technology Committee, the Innovation Committee, has a focus, which means: Promoting technologies! – In this respect, we will protest and we will not agree to this shift away from the Health Committee. I am grateful for Mr Hofer's re-submission of this request. I have previously requested this identification of phones because I know very well about the problem. I find it difficult and cumbersome to go to the Internet and look up what SAR values my mobile phone has, and, when I buy a new one, to make a comparison. It costs me at least half an hour, and that's laborious, and people are afraid of it. They usually don't know either. On the other hand, if the information content is already anchored in the mobile phone, I only need to open it and look in the back – that is a matter of seconds – and this has the decisive effect of buying. I know that the industry is then opposed, but I believe that, in particular, our Members must always be a priority for a value which is constitutionally anchored, namely the protection of human health. In our actions and in our decisions, this value must also have priority. That is why, Minister of Health, I do not understand your Black Peter policy on this matter at all. I like to give you the study, I'll send you an email with the study of the Scandinavian mothers and their children. I would like to take this as a hanger for a more serious discussion on the whole issue of radiation, because: The SAR value is the purely thermal value. But what it's all about in the health field in terms of mobile phone radiation is also the biological effect, the effect on frequencies. We need to discuss this more intensively, including in your body, also in the Health Committee, but above all in the Transport Committee. That's why we reject this black Peter game. We must take the problem seriously! The lightest thing is a label. I think you can't be against a label at all. That is why, Minister, I think this is a poverty action that you are doing with this hiking ball procedure in relation to requests from colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12112	Next, Mr. Ing. Oh, my God, my God. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12134	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The concerns and intentions of the applicants are undoubtedly justified and supported. However, I think that allocation is also justified because there are further issues of legal and technical nature to be clarified, and above all, it is also necessary to provide a broad and comprehensive information on this issue. This in-depth SAR value on the packaging is undoubtedly useful, but there may be more, just as important information that should be considered. And then it is also important to make people fit so that they can deal with this information they get. It is also necessary to take account of European law. The current intention violates European law – it is also intended to vote. The recommendations of such values are not new, they are available from the WHO, which is available from the European Council, partly for ten years, but somewhere in operating instructions, where they do not read anyone before purchase, or on the Internet, which also means a barrier for some of the mobile users. The load from the terminals is only a part. There is no doubt that this burden can also be seen in connection with the associated networks, because this SAR load is lower in high-send mast density areas than in areas with a greater distance between the transmission masts. This raises a new problem: As a local authority, we know exactly what it means to build new transmission systems. The best protection is undoubtedly the consideration of rules of use. To transport this is, I think, just as important. I do not want to go into it now, but that is undoubtedly the best protection from my point of view. It makes sense to clarify these open questions. It is necessary to transport comprehensive and generally understandable information to all mobile users. I therefore think it would be useful to agree to this allocation in order to clarify all these open, especially technical issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12182	The next speaker was Mr Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12203	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many of you are mayors and know very well what it means when you have to approve an antennarag mast system in the community. There are, of course, many, many protests, resistances, and only if this antenna support system is built. If the station is on the church tower, there are no protests. Many churches use this additional revenue source. The big problem, however, is not the antenna carrier system – it will also have a health influence – the big problem is the mobile phone on the ear. There's a higher load. It is now true that 70 percent of the twelve-year-olds in Europe have a mobile phone. I think it will be an even higher percentage in Austria. When you go to school, you can see that almost every child has a cell phone. This SAR value can be determined for each mobile phone. This is also available on the Internet. Anyone who buys a cell phone can retrieve this value for his cell phone. But what does that look like in practice? – You go into a specialist shop, look at mobile phones, choose a model and then don’t go home again with the model description, look at the Internet and then compare the models with the SAR values, but you buy the mobile phone and don’t know how high the radiation value is. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore useful to make a label directly on the packaging. Then the consumer can directly distinguish in the business how high these radiation values are in this device. Even if you buy a mobile phone for a child, you know what to expect. I don't trust anyone who buys a cell phone for his child. I was only in the same situation last week. My mother-in-law bought a cell phone for my little daughter. It's impossible for me to take the child away from the cell phone again. But I would have been glad to see on the packaging just how high the radiation values for this device are. As far as the assignment is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with great, great abdominal pain. I am a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and I hope that I will see to it that it will be dealt with quickly. Actually, he doesn't belong there. In fact, it belongs either to the Health Committee or to the Consumer Protection Committee. That would have been the right place, but I hope that we will still have a quick treatment in the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology. I very much ask the members of the Committee not to postpone this request if it is to be discussed but to take a decision. If the group of friends here in the House are interested in bringing this request together and deciding together, I am willing to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12262	Next speaker: Member of the jury. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12283	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Of course, one is responsible for this matter in the empty air, in the empty space for the future of our population, for the future of our children. On the one hand, there is the Supreme Council of Sanity, there is the scientific advisory board radio, there is a telecommunications authority – only: It is in this matter, Mr Minister, that no one is able to see the effects in today's time. Awareness raising is needed, especially for our youth, to protect young people from this electrosmog load. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is a first step to measure this SAR load. The second is also – and this is often underestimated – the load that the users of laptops that operate via radio are exposed to. These electrosmog effects are serious. That applies again: It is the failure of the past that broadband development in Austria has not been speeded up and the health burden on the population as a whole is therefore considerable. The thermal, the biological impact – Mrs. Dr. Moser, you're right! – is significant. At some point, however, this competence needs to be regulated. Is it in the infrastructure, is it in the health sector? I think she's got to be in the health field. It cannot provide the infrastructure and, above all, the industry with the values. There the bock is made a gardener when the Forum Mobile Communications sets rules and no one controls them! [[Complementary by the BZÖ and by Mr Dr. Moser and Mr Kickl]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12335	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its report 192 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I agree with Amendment 178/A(E) to the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology. [[14:27:36]] 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (207 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a federal law on the provision of payment services (Payment Services Act – ZaDiG) and amending the Banking Act, the Remote Financial Services Act, the Consumer Protection Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Insurance Supervisory Act and the Securities Supervision Act 2007 and repealing the Transfer Act (213 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12390	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Ddr. spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Königshofer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12417	Mr President. I would also like to say: Delighted representatives on the government bank! The Secretary of State comes. [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka is just taking his seat on the government bank.]] I'll greet you! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of this package, the Banking Act, which was rapidly amended in autumn 2008, is being amended again, which concerns the passage on the unlimited deposit guarantee of private savings. This, ladies and gentlemen, is being made a little quick. The EU would also have liked us to maintain this unlimited liability for savings deposits for another year. However, the government wants liability on 1 January. Lowered to €100 000 in January 2010. We believe that we are maintaining the unlimited liability in 2010, where, due to the economic crisis and the banking crisis, there is still a lot to expect, and this only with the 1. ==References====External links== That is why my colleague, Mr Haider, will, in my view, bring in a corresponding amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, in principle, I would like to say something about this bank package, which has been tied up under the Financial Market Stabilisation Act. Mr State Secretary – and I would also like to say that to the Federal Minister and Vice-President – you are opening the state's contracts with the banks! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that such important contracts are kept secret! This has nothing to do with bank secrecy! The banking secret regulates the relationship between the bank and the customer in relation to third parties outside, but here it is the contracts of the Republic on taxpayers that are concluded with banks which benefit from them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have the impression at all, ladies and gentlemen, that the most important financial treaties in this Republic are kept secret. For example, the cross-border leasing contracts of the countries – it has also concluded one of the largest of these contracts with the TIWAG – will be concluded by the municipality of Vienna. The so-called Eurofighter contracts are also kept secret. And now, too, these contracts of the Republic, where the state gives the banks money, are kept secret. That's why I'm asking you to: Open these contracts! However, some facts have already been made available to the public in the course of the budget negotiations and consultations, and the following has been found out by means of questions and answers: If these banks that get money lose, they will not need to pay interest or “dividends” for this year, as Mr. Ikrath said, and not pay back. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to imagine this: If a customer of the bank, for example a hoteler who has a loss year behind him, goes to the bank and says: I have a loss year this year, I don't pay any interest, then the bank will laugh at him! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] – This is a dividend, but a fixed percentage, Mr Ikrath, and it will not be paid. For example, just the Hypo Alpe-Adria, which last week was shot by Moody’s, by a rating C plus a D minus; this is practically Junk Bond level! And if the credit quality of someone gets worse, then the interest rate or return must be increased, which you do not do. [[Abg. Krainer: That was from C minus to D plus!]] – We can still discuss this, but now I will tell you something about Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] - I know. ==References====External links== On December 9, 900 million euros were transferred to tax euros. And this hypo alpe-Adria has been rated as a junk bond. She cannot pay the interest this year, she will make losses by the year 2011 and will not pay dividends and interest! Let's calculate this briefly: 900 million € by 8 percent, that would be 72 million €, around 1 billion schilling in real currency for the state! In three years the state will escape more than €216 million of interest income! However, the Republic must refinance itself with a higher interest rate, because Brent has risen. You can't say there's going to be a business for the state! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would therefore ask you once again, Mr Lopatka State Secretary: Please comment to open the Republic's contracts with the banks! – And then we can discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12509	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12530	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – There a previous speaker forgot his manuscript; I'll put it here if he needs it again. – To my previous speaker: Mr Königshofer, I do not know what the Hypo Alpe-Adria has to do with the payment service law, but you certainly know whose housebank the Hypo-Alpe-Adria has been for years. [[Abg. Graschauer: It wasn't me!]] You probably know that better than I do, Mr. Königshofer. Well, ladies and gentlemen, to the Payment Services Act. I have to say, there are really amazing things. For years now, we have had the EU Internal Market – the EU Internal Market has been a key element of the European Union since the beginning – but surprisingly there has not been a single legal framework for payment services until recently. It is only for a year and a half that there is a European Union Payment Services Directive, which provides a uniform legal framework, which we are also enacting in our law with this legislation here. It is really amazing, however, that a single market has existed for many years without a single legal framework. But now this law comes at the right time, it is about creating legal certainty and restoring legal confidence in financial markets, and, of course, harmonising payment services within the European Union is a contribution to strengthening confidence in financial markets, contributing to greater legal certainty – and also to customers something quite positive. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, we have to say, of course, if we adopt this payment service law today, this is not only an important step for the bank customers in Austria; the time limits of the credits are reduced to three days, starting from 1. ==References====External links== January 2012; after all, progress. Of course, many people are wondering why this takes so long. – That’s why it takes so long – I first wondered – because there are incredibly complicated new computer systems to install. The banks say that this alone costs about € 130 million in the next two, three years to convert the computer and implement completely new computer installations. [[Abg. May. Kogler: If you make it ten times as fast, it may cost ten times as little!]] – This is of benefit to the customer, Mr Kogler, to the extent that he has his credit to the account more quickly in the future. I even say this as a very old-fashioned bank customer; I still fill out the transfers, and with paper it takes a day longer. If you do this electronically, then the above deadlines apply; if you carry out the transfer in paper form, another day is added. Overall, it is an essential step forward that there is legal certainty in this area now. And this applies to payments within our country, but also to cross-border transactions within the European Union, which is particularly important for our companies that have invested in Central and Eastern Europe and continue to say: Thank God we have invested in these growth markets! Of course, legal certainty is a great advantage for these companies, especially in the field of payment services, even with Central and Eastern European countries. Since I have spoken about the fact that we are giving a new legal framework here as well, I would also like to mention that we are naturally maintaining proven structures – the concession system, for example. This is a combination of proven structures with a uniform legal framework for the whole of the European Union. One word at the cost: The cost to the institutions is of course significant, namely € 130 million. However, this applies to all EU countries, which is why these additional costs are not actually competitive, because in each country these costs fall, so this does not affect competition. Summary: A good investment in payments, a good investment to strengthen confidence in money markets, in financial markets, and therefore we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12591	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Haider. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12613	Mr President. High house! I do it very briefly, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: We are going to get this law very, very often, here for submission, as it is very much in need of repair before the decision is taken. And, Mr President, my pity for the banks – whether they have a cost of € 130 million or not – is also limited. However, the problem with this law – and that is why we cannot agree – is that there are serious violations of the underlying directive. You have to keep this in mind: We decide here much worse, much stricter rules than the EU directive would actually give us. For example, this draft law here provides that the validation rules should also apply to currencies other than the euro and other EU currencies, for example, in order to make it quite specific, including the US dollar. That is, if we now adopt this law as it stands, our Austrian banks will have a huge competitive disadvantage compared to other EU countries, which adhere precisely to this EU directive. We don't give up for such a thing. And this is also the reason why we already know now that we still have this law very, very often for repair here. The same applies to transfer periods; the deadline for the dollar is now the same. So not only for the euro, not just for the EU currencies, no, you decide here that the same transfer periods also apply to the US dollar! It is also the case, ladies and gentlemen, that a right of termination is excluded, that is to say, in this proposal for a law: Only if a right of termination between the payment service provider, i.e. the bank, and the customer is expressly provided for can this right of termination be used. That's what this proposal for a law says. Only if a right of termination between the payment service provider, i.e. the bank, and the customer is expressly provided for can the right of termination be used. That is to say, Mr Ikrath, Mr Auer and Mr Maier should listen well now, because then their own colleagues will make hell a little hot when it gets through, so the bank would have to write it into every single contract, otherwise you won't get out of the contract at all. An exclusion of termination rights is contrary to the general civil legislation which we have always pursued in this House. That is why we will not take this law into account. On the subject of a year's early introduction of the 100 000 € limit for the legal deposit guarantee for private savings funds, Parliamentary Königshofer has already said a lot. In this context, I shall now make the appropriate request:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12714	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12782	The next speaker was Mr Krainer. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12804	Mr President. The law on payment services simply lays down rules, as my colleague has said, on how long transfers take. I believe that regulation for Western Union and other payment service providers, which had not yet been regulated, is important and correct. Now, of course, we can discuss whether the deadlines are too long. I think there is an amendment by the Greens, in which it is said that it should go faster earlier. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Just because it's earlier, is it bad?]] As someone who comes from the consumer sector, I can see that. Some of these deadlines are too long for me. What I think is strange is the position that my previous speaker has here represented, it is so bad that we have more consumer protection here than the European Union requires – and this is something that never comes from Europe – from a party that always says something good. Now we are stricter than the European Union, are more consumer-friendly, and that is now the reason for the rejection by the liberals. I don't quite understand. I have no problem at all with deciding a regulation that is more consumer-friendly than it may be in other European Union countries. This possibility does not always exist, but with very, very many European framework legislation, we here defy nationally and say that we want to be more environmentally friendly, we want to be more consumer friendly. This may be a bit more difficult for the banks, but the question arises: What page are you on? Are you on the consumer side or on the bank side? The banks are not wrong to “pity” – under quotations – that we have a very efficient banking system. “Efficient” I mean that there are high-quality services that are provided at a very low national cost. This means that the margins in the banking business are very low, and it can be made relatively little money in Austria in the banking business because we are very efficient. But this also means that customers, both small customers and companies, especially compared to other countries have relatively favourable conditions for financing and the like. And I think that's good and right. That is why I have no problem with the payment service law being more consumer-friendly than the European Union would require. On the issue of deposit guarantee: We don't see this as having this extended, because you have, of course, also a moral hazard with this unlimited deposit guarantee. If someone promises you high interest rates, then everyone should be clear, high interest rates mean high risk. But if I turn off the risk by the deposit guarantee, so you'll definitely get your money, so it's not going to lose money, then that's because a rational-thinking market participant says, then I'm going to go where they pay me most interest, regardless of any risk, because I don't take a risk that deposit insurance pays everything anyway. In this respect, it is good that this is going to end, the better the past. The only reason why this has been increased indefinitely was that there have been individual states in the European Union who have announced this, and we have not wanted a competitive disadvantage here. And it is good that everyone has calmed down now and that we have a relatively uniform set of rules in the European Union, as far as this is concerned, and that we do not have this problem, that everyone is going where you are promised the highest interest rates. We only need to look into the past: Riegler Bank et cetera. There were some examples where extremely high interest rates were promised. For a few years the system worked, but in the end the cat came up and could stand the deposit guarantee straight. High interest rates mean high risk. This is a principle that is eliminated by an unlimited deposit guarantee. That is why it is reasonable that it also expires in an unlimited amount. However, it is clear that we need stability and trust, trust and trust throughout the banking system. That is why there is also the guarantee of deposits, and I therefore believe that the amount of € 100 000 is the right one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] To me, yes, it would have been best for all of us, it would not have been necessary for the state to take up a lot of money to help the banks in recapitalisation. Yes, it costs the taxpayer a lot of money. Now I don't see a single bank as an enemy, just because it's a bank where another political party is behind it or is behind it, but that's just about the question when a bank writes losses and I want to help this bank keep its equity half reasonable, and I force them to give me money, then I don't help this bank, but then I'm sorry to her. Then I will not help her with the equity ratio, but I will harm her if she explains these capital resources. I don't know these contracts either. The general suspicion, for the banks there's always enough money, I don't put in the way you do. There may already be reasonable reasons why, in certain situations, I say to a bank that you do not need to pay interest now, because that would contradict the real purpose of helping a bank to recapitalise and cover equity in reality. I don't know the contracts in detail either – it might be that they are too bank-friendly. But I don't see that because of the principle of how you do this. There is, of course, also a difference between foreign and equity. In the sense, the participation capital is of course to be valued as equity. In this respect, there are very different rules. It's not like a hoteler. If someone takes part in a hotel, but doesn't make any profits, he won't have a profit either; that's just an example. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12858	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Lugar. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12880	Mr President. High house! In principle, a single payment service scheme should be welcomed. The extension of deposit guarantee is also to be welcomed, and I personally wish for the EU's advance, which seeks the greatest possible liability for all deposits, because that would be better in line with reality. But what matters in detail here is something that we do not think is so good, and this law allows for the possibility that non-banks, i.e. simple service providers, can also provide credit frameworks. This, in our view, is an extension of the rights and, in view of the financial crisis, a step back than a step forward. I'm already in the financial crisis. I really wonder if I look at the law, where even enlargements are in it, what we have learned from this financial crisis at all. We now have a financial crisis that is going through us, a decline that we have never experienced to this extent, even worldwide. And that. It has been caused by the fact that devils have come out, not only in businesses, not only in investors, but also in the private sector. I'll be right there. What have we learned from it? [[Abg. Clickovits: We learned!]] If I look at the BAWAG, for example, then I have to say that the BAWAG advertises for a savings book – you have to imagine that! – which brings 4 percent interest and is linked to the super-fuel price index. I looked at this in detail. You have to imagine this: There is an unlikelyly complicated structure, and the interest rates are linked to this index that is run by Deutsche Bank. There is then a foundation and all possible terms and terms, overruns, all possible. – I wonder: Who needs such a thing? Who needs such a thing with a savings book? That's exactly the habit picture in our society. We have the problem that simple savings account lovers are told all kinds of things that have nothing to do with a savings book. If that's not the case, then simply modify the savings books so that they depend on any indices to bring back a speculation element. That's exactly the problem we have. We must now finally learn from the financial crisis and finally introduce rules so that such things can no longer happen in the future. Now I'm coming back to the simple final consumer. I have a case in Lower Austria: Someone bought a house, i.e. more a break-off, around 80 000 € and then got 200 000 € in credit for the renovation of this house. It is now true that the house is no more than €100 000 worth, but the bank, as I said, has provided €200 000 in credit and this young man must now go into private bankruptcy. This is exactly the problem that we had in the past. Loans have been granted without considering whether this is at all in a relationship with the valuables, whether this is in a relationship with credit quality, often through external financial advisors. It was driven Schindluder on the back of the simple people who might not know it better out of youthful zeal. That's the point! Before we adopt such a law, which I believe is very interesting and valuable, but far too little goes, we should consider what we can do in the future to avoid such crises. There are a few points. It is crucial that we need more rules for the banks and no less. And whatever we need is more protection for the citizen and no less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12919	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e12941	Ladies and gentlemen! We would have forgotten very slowly that this is the implementation of a directive. A number of comments on consumer protection aspects will then be made by Mr Schatz. Now the EU Payments Directive in the Internal Market. Yeah, plausible, passable under the line. It is, of course, useful to have uniform standards on these points in the different countries, because, in reality, cross-border payments are to be regulated in particular. This may now be – and that is already new in the form – other than banks. The banks can live by what I heard from Mr Ikrath in the committee. We can therefore live with it because a suspicion has been removed, namely that the possibility of de facto credit creation is also relatively limited by so-called payment service providers, similar to that of banknote companies at the moment. And in the end, it is also about speeding up payments. This already has a certain benefit, and for that it needs a few conditions, ready, and something useful. But it was also raised, because this was also regulated, the question of the security of deposits. I would like to comment on what I have said. Connect the brains. We already have to be careful here in the house that we do not always seem to overrun each other positively, who is forever demanding the even longer one hundred percent deposit guarantees. If we were to do this and continue to do so, we would be the cause of the next financial crisis, as good as we can. It can't be. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At some point, there has to be a responsibility for what you can promise – regardless of which financial service provider. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] It can't be that 10 and 15 percent interest are promised. That's never sustainable! There would be many going on if that were such a great story and everyone knew that at the end of the day the taxpayer and the taxpayer would pay anyway. This can only lead to a predicament. Yeah, also plausible. That was the attempt to appeal to the previous speakers. Let's see if it's helpful. The last and last point. Inevitably, the banks have been addressed. At the Hypo Alpe-Adria, it was clear to everyone that there is not much to do. That is what we will see in the reports in the main committee. We do not always want to deal with everything publicly, but according to my information, this is the only bank where the Republic has, so to speak, secured a right of change. As is the case with the others, then we can be excited. Last sentence. It will then really be time for, after several efforts over winter, Parliament to drive a little bit and to keep an eye on what happened with the implementation of the bank package, which will be put on the table by some card or other. Mr State Secretary, as simple as that has happened in the Committee on Budgets, it will no longer be possible. I recall that we have already been able to prove that the government is already reckoning with a 25 percent default rate of those repayments that are de facto as interest rates, more likely to be called dividends of the surrendered equity. Mr Ikrath! So if you already call in between, that is equity to bring the FPÖ to the Raeson, then it is valuable in the sense of the education contract, but it still comes out that Mr Pröll said that the Minister of Finance told us a little bit of a shame. But we'll know exactly when the season is over.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13008	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. I would draw attention to the fact that at 3 p.m. we are going to interrupt the speech to call for the request. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13035	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I'm going to get a little on the gas. – a brief comment on the topic of education policy. I remember having a very good friend, Mr. Königshofer, who helped me in mathematics again and again and again and again and was desperately desperate if I had not understood it again the third time. I would ask you to keep a close eye on what is a credit, a foreign financing, and what is own resources financing. That's just participation capital. Then we can finally talk at one level, otherwise it is and remains extremely difficult. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] If I get 8 per cent or 9.4 per cent interest, then the risk is reduced by what I have in the case of own funds investments. In the case of a loan, I would therefore not naturally receive such a high interest rate. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] But I do not want to continue to address this question. We have already dealt with them in committee. Unfortunately, I am sure that we will talk about this subject again. Mr Kogler has already mentioned this. The consumer clearly benefits from the Payment Services Directive that we are now implementing. We create different civil, regulatory and consumer regulations, so we harmonise them. This creates legal certainty, which creates a unit of charge and a certainly greater variety of offers, which only the consumer benefits again. However, I see a problem that has to do with the long preparation of this EU directive, which is the paying agencies. We have recently heard from G 20 the statement that in the future all providers of all products and services will be subject to the same regulations. Unfortunately, this is not the case with the payment institutions. You can say they're not that system-relevant. But I am sure that if the EU were to regulate this now, it would not grant supervision light and no reduced own resources support. This will be observed, but also at European level. One last word on deposit insurance: I am of the same opinion as Mr Kogler and Mr Kogler, who have stressed that, if the crisis permits, the situation is more relaxed than it was last year in autumn, we need to restore the relationship between yield and risk – also for investors and savers – in order to avoid a misdevelopment of risk awareness.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13108	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 10 of the agenda. [[15:00:47]] Short debate on the response to the question 1267/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13129	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth with the order number 1267/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that their reading by the author is not sufficient. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mrs Dr. Moser as an applicant for the request to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13163	Mr President. Minister for Economic Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the answer to my request, you can see at first glance why I would like to request this answer. The answer to points 1, 2, 4, 5, 8 to 10, 12, 13 and 18 to 20 is that you, Mr Minister, are not responsible for this. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Good answer!]] [[Abg. Grosz: That didn't give it under the beardstone!]] [[Call to the ÖVP:Fact is fact!]] Mr Mitterlehner, it is clear that I would like to ask you so that you can really speak and answer me, because you are very responsible for the climate-related measures in the field of housing renovation – say thermal renovation, envelopment, improvement of thermal insulation of buildings – because you, together with the Minister for the Environment, also represent the so-called rehabilitation check as a measure of the economic package II and also budget 50 percent of these 100 million out of your department. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: What's weighing, that's it!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Bartenstein would have known that!]] I mean, you don't remember. Minister Mitterlehner, you are responsible – and then answer that you are not responsible for points 1, 2, 4, 5, 8 to 10, 12, 13 and 18 to 20. – Where are we, Minister?- Oh, my God! They have quite competent and diligent employees who could accept it. I am already half satisfied if you tell me, for example: In Question No 3, you may ask my colleagues, or: In Question No 5, I am of the opinion that, in agreement with my colleague or colleague. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, we have once again a typical example of how members of the government, like ministers, deal with the simple interpolation rights of Members. [[Abg. Amon: No, so that's!]] Please do not let this happen, not at all you, Mr Amon, who want you to represent the workers, who are very likely to have a right to their means of taxation – this is what it is all about! – are used so that they have a personal benefit of it. [[Abg. Amon: Yes, that's right!]] [[Abg. Amon: This is country matter in some areas!]] [[Call at the ÖVP: That happens too!]] This brings me to the second aspect: It is not only about finally getting the answers to questions 1, 2, 4, 5, 8 to 10, 12, 13, 18 to 20, but also about the matter. First of all, I am concerned with the matter, because you have given me a very good answer, Mr Minister, and I am grateful to you for that. The answer is: “The Federal Government will provide a total of €100 million of funding for thermal rehabilitation measures in the course of the II economic package.” 50 percent for private and 50 percent for commercial objects. And you, Mr Minister, said yesterday to the media that these €100 million had actually been completely consumed by July. I know, I have the documents with you, I can show you. A thousand applicants come every week. I think we are now about 10,000 applicants. Mr Berlakovich, the Minister for the Environment, and, I believe, you, too, have predicted during the budget debate that this €100 million federal funding will generate an investment of €700 million. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Right!]] And this €700 million – Mr Minister, you just need to count! – bring VAT revenue. Calculate 20 percent VAT revenue of 700 million, then you are above the amount of funding! You intend to implement the unique Win-Win project of the Greens – starting with! Since 2002, we have been saying that there is a single project that creates employment, saves people money – through energy saving measures – and at the same time is an economic engine, brings innovation, especially helps small and medium-sized enterprises and relieves trade balances. This win-win project, which is very common in the Chamber of Commerce, which is very well known in the WIFO, has thus also found its way into your reflections, but only when the economy not only went down massively, but into the graves. Now you have lowered the most effective measure to improve the economy, this most effective instrument - I think that is per billion jobs in the 25 000, says the WIFO, if I can only mention the workplace dimension here - to minimal status, to these 100 million euros. This already shows that the 100 million € went out to you within three months. This is already the best sign of the fact that this is a “wonder” – under the lead sign – the best economic means, the best means of ensuring regional employment, promoting regional economy, at the same time – and this I stress three times – to bring environmental protection and climate protection measures into line, while at the same time saving people costs and heating costs four times. This project, this central green heart project, has equipped you with 100 million € first relatively narrow, and second, don't extend it, and that's why I have a problem! There is an urgent need to rethink budget resources. – Just think about the revenue from VAT purely calculated! It's a very simple milkmaid bill. Think of it purely mathematically, then you know that this is the real eco-employment economy turbo that we have in our hands and which you need to do well. Talk to your colleague, Mr Pröll. Also within the People's Party: Mr Bartenstein, you are very well-informed in economic matters as well. They will certainly and hopefully also insist internally that we not only double the funds in this success project, but more investment, because, above all, we have the great advantage that in this area federal funding brings a lot of private investment, a lot of private savings capital into the economic cycle, and that people still regard this as a provision for the future. Mr Auer, as a worthy former mayor, you know that the house builders in your community are waiting for them to receive funding. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Amon]] Then it will be improved, then they can save themselves a lot of heating costs in old age, and then the countries – I like to talk to the 78 mayors here in this House – can also save the problems with the many, many housing allowances and heating subsidies. If you really take money into your hands in time, you can be anti-social policy prevention, and this is also felt by the communities, which have to be less dispelled from the Social Fund and have to invest less in this area. That's why my plea: Apart from the fact that: Please send me the remaining answers, Mr Minister, at least now orally at this meeting, you also promise us here, now and now, where all the arguments are on the table, that you will at least double the €100 million check, at least continue, and that as a teaching fee for the fact that you, I believe, have committed €25 million in total to the scrapping premium! The scrapping premium – you said that yourself in a press release – has had an effect of € 44 million. The €100 million for thermal renovation will trigger €700 million of investment. There are houses in between! There are, in the truest sense of the word, metaphorically houses between these different uses of public funding and their employment efficiency, their economic efficiency and, above all, their eco-efficiency and their social efficiency. Please learn! I am also happy to provide you with more ideas – also in other questions and parliamentary contributions. In any event, I am glad that this green project from 2002 has become so successful, and I hope, Minister, you will now get closer to it in your reply and put these additional budget resources in perspective, because I rely on what the “Salzburger Nachrichten” writes: In view of your experience with the so-called eco-premie or scrapping premium, you are thinking of doing what is useful to many people – in the sense of a III economic package – which also benefits the budget, see VAT revenue, which, in particular, relieves the environment and also protects the climate a little more in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13339	On a point of view, Minister of State Dr. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13361	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Gässner: Service posts for Mrs. Moser for consultation!]] Mrs Moser, I would like to thank you for your presentation or for your instruction on the situation of competence, but I do not accept it without contradiction, because the situation of competence is different, and you have been aware of it. You have addressed a question to me and, at the same time, to Mr. Nikolaus Berlakovich, because you were very well aware that only some of the points were competent in the field of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but the other part falls within the competence of the Ministry of the Environment. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Someone has to...!]] The answer was therefore exactly the same, because it was ours on 7 October. ==References====External links== ==References== It should therefore be noted that points 1, 2, 4, 5, 8 to 10, 12, 13 and 18 to 20 of the request do not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. On the other hand, as mentioned, you have received from Mr Berlakovich the answer to these questions. If you are now asking me – or if you notice that you are curious – what the content is, I have the answer to the question, in which you are given a precise opinion on all these points. If you want, I'd like to hand it over to you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the subject that you have asked about thermal renovation, I can partially confirm what you have said – insofar as thermal rehabilitation is indeed a full success. ==References== June 2009, i.e. de facto until yesterday, 9 193 applications submitted to us. The average funding amount is €4 400. The average investment costs achieved by this support amount to €35 000 per case. In other words, we have actually spent € 40.5 million or 80 percent of the budget, and we have made 250 requests a day. Therefore, it is expected that the entire action will be exhausted in a few weeks. However, I should also like to talk about why I said “partly confirm”: It has not required your initiative or suggestion to implement it or to foresee it, but it was an initiative of the Federal Government, and it was only part of it. The second part is the € 180 million for the thermal renovation in the area of the federal real estate company, which will be applied or implemented accordingly. In total, we therefore move around € 280 million in the entire topic field. This not only delivers a drop on the hot stone, as is sometimes argued, but it is implemented in a material way, but also “awareness”. I believe that the point in this action is that one sees not only unilateral applications and promotions, but also what is actually being moved by investment projects. There is much more in motion, because the promotion action simply creates a good image for thermal renovation and many people take money into their own hands without any support in this context. It is therefore clear that the action was a full success, both in terms of economic policy and sustainability. So, of course, the question is whether this cannot be continued. In this context, I say that we would like to continue. But they all know the debate about the federal budget and also the criticism of the opposition that the budget must not fall out of the joints and that everything must be financeable. That is why the border will probably also be there, and if you give me a hint – because we have decided on the budget for two years – where additional funds are to come from, I am very grateful to you. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Is not necessary at all!]] This is one point of approach that concerns the content of the site, but it does not change the fact that the action was, in principle, a huge success from the point of view of accuracy. We also see what is happening in the country – because you have also mentioned this – which are additive. There are considerable additional support from the countries, which are also being extended beyond this action and the resources we have available, and are therefore being continued. All in all, what we achieve by these measures is a range of several million euros and creates some 7,000 additional employees. That is why I can summarize my view of things in order not to add to the time: The question has been answered correctly by both Ministries in accordance with their respective competences, and what you have mentioned is a political responsibility for implementing the economic packages, which we also fully and fully support. Satisfaction of the public is perceived, and this satisfaction would, of course, be heightened by other means – to which you have no further proposals either. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Sure, the VAT! You can't do it! VAT alone!]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13446	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who are now speaking in accordance with Rules of Procedure is 5 minutes each. Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13476	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! The thermal renovation of private buildings is a real success model. It is one of the most efficient and affordable ways to reduce greenhouse gases. This domestic climate protection measure will increase value added and secure jobs. In addition, thermal renovation also massively reduces operating costs for tenants and businesses, and it is the cheapest way to meet our Kyoto target in the long term. Since the start of the thermal renovation operation in mid-April, more than 8 500 applications for the renovation of private buildings have already been submitted. Most of the funding is used for outside walls to around 40 percent, around 34 percent are used for windows and about 12 percent for top floor coverings. However, the funding, which was actually intended for 2009 and 2010, was almost exhausted by commitments at the end of June. There will, of course, be a need for continuation, but from my point of view, new criteria for the award of private housing will be needed. Since I mean that multi-storey housing needs to be promoted much better, for example by promoting district heating connections. [[Abg. Hornek: That's already happening!]] - That doesn't happen! [[Abg. Hornek: Landesförderungen!]] In addition, it is necessary to go from the purely grant system and create a new form of credit facility. In this context, it is also important to do the management development law with the actually planned € 60 million per year, because now we have € 0 for 2009, € 10 million for 2010 and € 20 and € 30 million, and that is definitely too little. The aim must therefore be to change the construction regulations and not to spend housing support for the subsequent renovation of the single and two-family houses, because we need this money for the new building apartments. The demands made by the Greens to rework housing funds for climate efficiency purposes in the form of an increase in the recovery rate in residential construction from 1 to 3 percent would mean a massive redistribution at the expense of the new building without an adequate increase. This, in turn, means very strong social policy implications. I mean, for example, a standstill in the new building and, in addition, an apartment shortage, even an apartment shortage. An adequate supply of quiet housing could no longer be guaranteed in the future, as social housing as a whole would be disposition. With regard to the renovation of the building, it is falsely often given the impression that the greatest potential for CO2 savings in the building is the result of the renovation of the building. However, it is not mentioned that, contrary to commercial/service space heating in the space/living sector, greenhouse gas emissions have already been reduced. The linkage of federal housing support to the development of the building cost index, the increase in the new building rate according to the household and population forecasts or, for example, the increase in the Federal housing funds to the extent of the desired restructuring rate are just some of the measures that need to be developed together with the federal states. Another proposal would be to set up minimum reserves for residences in order to finance a thermal renovation. It is possible to orientate on the non-profit housing, where this deposit formation is the case. It should also be noted that the regulatory framework provides sufficient opportunities for conservation and improvement work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The demand for energy-efficient housing rights raised by the Greens therefore goes beyond the widely accepted climate protection. Domestic changes in favour of thermoenergy measures are therefore only a pretext – as an excuse for interference in the legal protection of homeowners. Thermal renovation is closely linked to energy efficiency. You, Mr Minister, are invited by us to finally submit the Energy Efficiency Act set out in the Coalition Agreement. It is clear that we can only achieve our EU commitments in the field of renewable energy if we get under control of the increase in energy consumption. This will certainly not work without an energy efficiency law. In Germany, for example, such an energy efficiency law is discussed, and we could certainly focus on these ideas also in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13525	Mr Sonnberger has now come to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13547	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The countries must have a key role to play in this area of thermal renovation, but we have two ways of solving these problems: on the one hand, through the construction regulations and on the other hand through the promotion of housing. It is quite possible to talk about an ecologisation of housing promotion in multi-storey housing. I recommend everyone to read the study by Lugger/Amann, which is very precise in what has improved in recent years. In addition, in the last 30 years, the share of Category A housing has increased from 40 percent beginning to 90 percent. We are also world champions in the field of passive houses: We have well over 2 000 passive houses with 1.1 million square meters of living space. However, I am in favour of not giving these incentives in the area of passive homes, but of giving them incentives and thus bringing about swings. There is a climate: active agreement with the Association of Non-profit Construction Associations, which provides for the reduction of energy requirements in the housing of non-profit companies by 10 percent by 2012. This means an annual savings of approximately 200 000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent and a climate-relevant recovery rate of 3 percent per year. This has been quite successful in the field of non-profit housing. We also have the Energy ID template law, which has been adopted since 1. January 2009 is in force. In the area of housing development, about 70 percent are in the new construction sector and 22 percent are in the renovation, while 8 percent are in the subject promotion area. In this context, I would like to mention the exemplary function of the BIG. I think there is really a lot going on here in this area. Where we have a deficit – I think we all know that – these are the one and two-family areas and the dwellings. This is about 1.1 million objects in Austria. This is why it is precisely the last initiative of the Federal Government that has led to nearly 10 000 applications in the field of private housing, an average funding of €4 400 per application, and an average investment of €35 000. 80 percent of the funds have already been allocated. That is to say, there is actually an approach to environmental investment promotion, since in the area of federal funding, the funding is not taken into account in the social situation but is granted regardless of income. The funds will certainly be exhausted at the end of June. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Well, that's the problem!]] I think that here the building savings banks and the municipal credit public consulting, CCP, do very good work. However, I believe that in the legal field we still have possibilities to make improvements, such as the fictitious maintenance concept that exists in the WGG, to also transform into the MRG or the WEG. I also felt that Mr Hakel's proposal was a very reasonable one, which spoke of home ownership deposit formations, for example, based on the house's energy state. I think a lot has happened, but there's still a lot to do. The practice proves that these 100 million € are very, very well used for thermal renovation in the area of residential construction and in the field of farms. Of course, we all want these measures to continue. But on the other hand, we also need to see the budget responsibility. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not going to pay! VAT!]] We have decided on this budget in this House, and we already have to comply with these decisions. But, of course, it would be a concern to me, as a resident of our group, to be able to start a few more impulses here in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13600	Mr Themessl is now speaking. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13621	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Mr Federal Minister, if your figures, which you mentioned earlier, are right, then this is a success project. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: They vote!]] However, it would be time for you to increase these funds, because if your colleague Berlakovich's statement is true – and I assume – that 100 million € will generate funding for 600 million € and will provide additional 7 500 or just over 7 000 jobs, then an increase would be expected by itself if you now say that 80 percent of these 50 million are already exhausted. But what I don't understand: There is a brand-new study by the independent market observer Kreutzer Fischer & Partner, which was published about two weeks ago and says something quite different. The study states that, compared to autumn 2008, the renovation projects in the construction and renovation sector fell by 12 percent and that only 37 percent of the population are really willing to invest in additional times of crisis. This means that over 60 percent are now saving and putting on their red pen. In addition, the person who wants to clean up his house – if we are going to go out from private individuals – does not have the money liquid and needs a bank loan, is still hampered by the credit terminal and then, of course, cannot take advantage of the funding, because he is still unable to finance the construction project. This market study clearly states that this support does not provide a real incentive. I'm allowed to quote: According to the KFP experts, “The promotion of thermal rehabilitation” – that is, Kreutzer Fischer & Partner – “does not change anything about it. The grant (maximum €5 000) is clearly too low as a ‘real incentive’, is the criticism. More than 90 percent of the €50 million available in private households this year and 2010 would be used as a ‘acquisition effect’.” What he concludes as a summary sounds absolutely not good – not good for this federal government and not for you as Minister of State: “A real stimulus was never planned from the political side,” said study author Andreas Kreutzer. We know that 300 applications have been submitted so far from the commercial sector – as of last week. If you say that 80 or 90 percent of the budget has already been exhausted, I wonder how many additional jobs this has led to. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: at least 10,000!]] Or: Has it led to the fact that thousands of workers are actually in employment? If so, I wonder why you don't raise the funds. Take money from the bank package that has not yet been used! In any case, it will be used there as a backup and not for investments by small and medium-sized enterprises or for private businesses – we know that is unfortunately still the case. Perhaps you will also take up my proposal once again to support the communities. We know that 80 per cent of all municipalities in Austria have an insidious need for follow-up to the community's own projects, be they kindergartens, schools et cetera, and of course much has to be done in the thermal rehabilitation area. But these are exactly those 80 percent of the communities that do not swim in the money anyway, are not blessed with a positive budget. That is why you have to use resources to get these communities under the arms, and of course you have to change the requirements for the call for tenders accordingly, so that the money actually benefits the domestic economy, the domestic real economy and the labour force in our own country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, if you are talking about a success of this project, I would like to give you this – and I hope so in the sense of the unemployed or the employees in Austria – but then you will increase this package accordingly, so that you can initiate investments that would be comprehensible to several million, which your colleague, Berlakovich, has also admitted. I don't understand when half the year is over and 80 percent are exhausted, why you don't continue there. It is fundamentally financed by itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13677	It is now coming, Mr Magistrate. Widmann with 5 minutes to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13698	Thank you, Madam President. High house! The magic word is in all mouths: thermal renovation – as a job engine, as an all-healer against CO2, as an energy saving engine and as a possible way to ultimately bring Austria to the field of energy autarchy. This is important and correct, because space heat consumes almost 40 percent of Austria's energy requirements. If we manage to do well here, we will get away from oil and also from natural gas, but perhaps from the areas of industry. Mr Mitterlehner, Minister of Economic Affairs, you said today in the news that thermal renovation is a real success. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Right!]] The ÖVP says: Right, but unfortunately we don't have any money for it. I'll show you a model a little later on, how you can get money for this sensible measure, how you can land many more, much bigger hits in thermal rehabilitation. Mr Minister, you are spending 100 million from the II economic package. This is not even new money, it is in principle – between quotation marks – “stolen money”, namely a special dividend and money from the KLI.EN, from the Climate and Energy Fund, which ultimately goes elsewhere. There are 50 million left for private households for two years, 80 percent of which have been consumed, as you have said. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: stolen money!]] “Stolen money” – between quotation marks – Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs, because it is missing elsewhere. It is. [[Abg. Auer: Borrowing money, Mr. Widmann!]] The bankers should then talk about whether it is borrowed or stolen. I have deliberately put it between quotation marks, but I see that the ÖVP is particularly appealing because it knows that this is the point where the money is going elsewhere. 9 100 applications are there, from households, 300 businesses are there – and the money is actually already gone in June, although the programme is set up for two years. It is well known, Mr Auer, that in Austria we have 1.5 million homes in need of renovation. 1.5 million houses, but with this program you can only create 9 000, 10,000 houses. I do not want to insult the Mickymaus now, but this rehabilitation programme is a Mickymaus programme, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am speaking now to my colleagues. Auer and Ikrath, who are bank experts: You could use 100 million to create a non-profit-making credit model that would allow you to set up an annual funding volume of 3.3 billion if you wanted. 3.3 billion – at 1 billion, there are 11 000 jobs, at 3.3 it is almost 35 000 jobs that you could secure each year if you had the courage to really take on more money and use it in the long term. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This would be important if one considered that there was 47 percent more unemployed in the construction industry in May 2009 compared to May 2008. One thing would also be important – you said yourself, you get up to €5,000 from the state, but a renovation costs €25 000, €30 000 –: Note It is also increasingly the social component in the process of thermal renovation! There are many people, elderly people, minimum pensioners, pensioners, families with many children who live in such homes and are unable to raise their own resources to this extent. Therefore, if you allow people to get a non-profit credit for their house renovation, which they can repay with the help of energy savings, then you have hit several flies on one stroke. That means that this model would be forward-looking and would also be implemented, it would be feasible and manageable. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I know, Minister of Economic Affairs: You lack the money – another minister of your party gets it because these investments of 600, 700 million that you have now triggered also cause more tax revenue, more social security contributions and save us the disbursement of unemployment funds. Under the rule, this thermal renovation is actually a tax-money-purchasing machine to start. Therefore, our proposal: Create You can use a Spatial Heat Rehabilitation Fund, which will feed you every year with 100 million, so that you can use a volume of 3.3 billion annually for thermal rehabilitation promotions! There are, however, other measures that are important: Information or mandatory advice on energy savings as we have them in Upper Austria. There will only be housing funds if the builder has previously been obliged to consult. Or: The support systems are complex. We have federal funding, we have the CCP, we have the environmental promotion domestic, we have nine national funding stations in residential construction. In addition, the complex situation in the field of competence in the housing funds comes. We have an EU Building Directive, which has only been implemented in four federal states – Salzburg, Lower Austria, Burgenland, Vorarlberg – and has not yet been implemented. And we have – it has already been addressed – nine construction regulations with different standards. Mr Minister, you have the power to have the opportunity to intervene here and to create uniform minimum standards! The 15a agreement exists, but it is not implemented, and that is the point. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Remember, too - I am at the end of the sentence - that all rehabilitation expenditure should generally be taxed in order to boost the job engine! Come on. You finally get away from the cricket of thermal renovation, go on the trail of overcrowding and thus make Austria energy-autarchy! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13791	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Brunner. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13813	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! There is no doubt that thermal rehabilitation is a very important measure in terms of climate change as regards economic recovery, employment development, and also an important social measure. I think that is undisputed, that has confirmed many experts, and I hope that we will agree here in the house too; if you give faith to the broadcasts and Sunday speeches, you can at least close it. If you say, Mr Minister, that it did not need an initiative by the Greens to actually put in place such an initiative, then I would like to say that the Greens already pointed out in 2002 how important thermal renovation would be. We have already proposed a reorganisation billion at the time. Due to the positive effects, this is important, but of course - as you have correctly said - because of the possibilities in the field of awareness, awareness-building. Until this awareness, this awareness, arrived at the government, it just lasted until 2008. However, they use only €100 million for the renovation instead of 1 billion – so the formation of consciousness has not yet arrived. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kößl: 2002 it was Schilling!]] We have already heard it, there are thousands of applications per week that are submitted by the population, and this clearly shows how important this measure is, how effective it is, and that many people are insisting on spending less for oil and gas or for energy in general in the future. However, these many applications also show that far too little resources are available to ensure that the approach is not sufficient in the case of an item. Now to your answer to the question. – You have stated that you are not responsible in some respects. I think it is very interesting for Question No 1 as regards payment of penalties to be economic policy, whether we are using our resources for measures from which we can obtain something again, or whether we have to make criminal payments. If you do not deal with the criminal payments at all, I wonder, as an environmental spokesman, whether you simply assume that any penalty payments, which are likely to come, will then be paid out of the environmental budget and that all the other budgets, including your budget, will not be affected, nor where the excess in the CO2 sector is largely caused by the economy. On question 2, I think your competence is already deduced, it has already been given through the housing law of non-profit. You are also responsible for this, namely the promotion of housing. The question 18, I think, was simply a question about how They will use them in tax reform to ensure that the costs of thermal rehabilitation are deductible. This must have nothing to do with competence, but it is simply a political measure. We say that this is an important measure, including for your area of responsibility, and this is an important measure especially for the regional economy. I therefore believe that this question is very likely to be accepted. Now on a question you have answered; it is about the inadequate implementation of the Building Directive in Austria. You have written that, as a result of the summary report you have delivered, you assume that the evaluation of the European Union will be positive. I would be interested in how your statement looked out and why you are based on this assumption. The fact is that thermal rehabilitation is effective as an employment measure, especially in regional enterprises, in SMEs. It opens up savings for households, for the population. In the area of space heating there is also great potential as regards climate protection, with regard to CO2 savings. That is what the Court of Auditors described. It is all the more incomprehensible, in my opinion, that this measure will no longer go into here if it is calculated by itself, as my colleague Moser has already said. There is already an investment volume that has been triggered in this respect of almost € 700 million. And, as mentioned above, VAT revenue is the subject of this measure itself. We are currently experiencing an economic crisis, but there is an area that is booming, which actually has effects on the regional economy. It is therefore simply not understandable to me that we are no longer going into this area. I would ask you once again to extend, expand and extend the measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13858	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13890	Mrs Collaborative, I just don't want to leave anything in the room. The one point, the one They have spoken about whether I will be committed to this, is not a point of political execution, but essentially not so important. More important is the question of overall energy efficiency, as we come to this answer. I should like to illustrate this briefly, and I would like to point out that I have not used my speaking time before. So allow me to do that! EU Directive 2002/91/EC on the overall energy efficiency of buildings has been fully implemented in Austria. The Federation has complied with its obligations with the Energy ID Template Act, which is still being addressed here. The federal states have adopted regulations within the framework of the relevant materials such as construction law and air law. The EU Commission has been notified of all these arrangements. In the infringement procedure, the EU Commission received a note from the Federal Chancellor's Office on 26 June. A summary report on Austrian implementation was submitted on February 2009 and, prior to final evaluation by the EU Commission, it is expected that this procedure will be terminated accordingly. There has never been a trial before the European Court of Justice. The question is finally open in the assessment; the likelihood that our implementation will be sufficient I consider to be relatively large. That's still a supplement to my initial answer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13935	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:44:47]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13956	I take the negotiations on the 13th. Agenda item again. Mr Jarolim came to the floor with 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e13981	Ladies and gentlemen! I can join this emotional debate. We are again on the subject of the Financial Committee on the Government Template to the Payment Services Act. This is essentially a measure to harmonise European standards, which is intended to ensure that Europe – and I believe that is one of the key points – the payment services, that is, banks in the area, the same conditions, especially in the provisions, have to be guaranteed in the field of deposit guarantee and can thus, in the competitive situation, ensure equal treatment of this very essential aspect. On the question of fees, fees and also the question of transfers, we can all remember unloving events revealed by consumer protection, where transfers took place in an incomprehensible manner only a few days later. That should not be the case in the future. On this occasion I would like to refer once again to one which is especially dear to my heart: We are now talking about improving information overall for customers, for consumers. And we are currently running a process – I am now talking about the Causa Meinl – in which we are almost daily being poured out with information in the various media, where we read: The fact is – and then the opposite is of what has been established within the Judicature through judgments, through decisions so far. If we are already talking about information, if we are talking about the fact that consumers are to be informed of what is actually a matter, I believe, we should also consider something like this, as I mean, very threesome, because it is simply and simply what has been decided by judicial judgments that can no longer be challenged, in such broadcasts, in such advertisements, and so that consumers will be massively behind the light again. I think we should still think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14020	It has now become Mr. State Secretary Dr. Lopatka in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14041	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, thank you for your speech. I should like to begin by referring to the first speaker, Mr Königshofer, who took this item on the agenda to discuss our bank package again. I may begin with a quote from the Governor of the Austrian National Bank. University professor Dr. Ewald Novotny last week stated that “the Austrian banks have used to strengthen their crisis resistance in recent months. The granting of around EUR 6 billion of state capital measures, in addition to private equity grants, the lending of approximately EUR 16 billion of the Federal Guaranteed Bank and the activities of Clearing Bank have contributed significantly to this.’ Second point – because You once again mentioned the disclosure of the contracts with the banks –: I have also given my opinion on this on several occasions, especially at the meetings of the committee responsible. All essential content as regards the terms and conditions of the instruments are laid down in the law, in the regulation and also in the EU grant authorisation. And in the National Council's main committee, we also report on the content of the contract in a very detailed manner. - That's the one side. The other side is: We also need to see that it is not quite unproblematic if we go beyond that, because, of course, the banks as contracting partners can also claim a right to safeguard the silence of office. The fact that we are here on the one hand complying with our reporting duty to Parliament, as far as it is possible, but on the other hand we also keep in mind the need to maintain the silence of office, I would ask you to take note of it from your side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] The third speaker – also a speaker of your group – has criticised the fact that we have organized payment services in the form of this negotiating document, the Payment Services Act, which also regulates in-depth payments in US dollars. [[towards FPÖ]] I can only say that's wrong what you're saying here. – Rather, it is true that this applies, of course, when payments are made in euro, or in an EEA currency, but not in the US dollar. So the claim made by you here is lacking the legal basis in this law. [[Abg. Neubauer: You need to talk to the Chamber of Commerce! She's making the broadcasts!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to every Member to find out himself and not to refer to issues of institutions. [[Abg. New builder: Yes, yes!]] I think you're voting here on a bill that you should read yourself. I believe that this applies to all political groups. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Where does this law bring substantial improvements? We decide, on the one hand, to implement this law – as Mr Kogler has rightly said – in order to implement two European Union directives, on the other hand, we also have a knowledge of the Constitutional Court, which causes us to come to this decision today. Where do I see the major improvements? On the one hand, in the security of deposits, on the other hand in the information requirements and thirdly, as mentioned by Mr Krainer, above all in the consumer policy improvements that are being made. We now have a new category of payment service providers with this law. In this context, of course, it can also be seen that this also increases legal certainty – for customers, but also for banks. There is more transparency and better comparability of products that are offered. These provisions, which you decide today, are an essential contribution to strengthening confidence in the financial market as a whole, as they promote a smooth functioning. The increase in deposit protection among legal persons is particularly beneficial to SMEs, which is also a necessary and important impetus in the economic situation in which we are now. The reduction of payment obligations for secured deposits is to be seen in the sense of consumers. Thus, this law is one that has in mind, above all, the interests of consumers, but also strengthens our small and medium-sized enterprises and, in total, makes an important contribution to continuing to strengthen confidence in our financial market. Ladies and gentlemen, on the financial market, which was certainly in a very difficult phase last year, has now returned a lot of stability and normality – thank God, I say. That is why I think it is right – as far as deposit guarantee is concerned – that we are taking action here, as provided for in the law, and that this full deposit guarantee is done, because it is also an expression of the functioning of the banking sector and the financial market if we can take this step. I conclude with the words I started with. Our banking system has proved itself in this crisis. This is not only what the governor of the Austrian National Bank sees, but also international. In the United States, for example, we only have a 4 percent commitment to a total of €14 billion, while our commitment to our Czech neighbours in this area is €39 billion and, of course, our relationship to the real economy is much more direct and stronger than to a financial market where turbulence was particularly strong, as in the USA. With today's decision-making, another important mosaic will be added to have the financial market in Austria in a calm water as possible. That is why I say it is good that we come to this decision-making of the payment service law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14114	Next, Mrs Mag. Treasure to word with 4 minutes of desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14136	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of the present draft is to bring improvements for consumers to the implementation of the relevant EU Directive. That is why he does the most, and that is why we are quite right to do so. However, there is a point that is already to be questioned and that concerns everyone who uses the service of banks directly. We have the situation – still – that in addition to the fees already due for transfers, the banks involved – that is, both the bank of the client and the recipient – are affected by certain delays in the transfer, we say, something like a basket money. In concrete terms it is like this: You give the transfer order – be it through the debit from your own account or through a cash deposit – at least you will immediately make your money available. However, the bank does not directly release it, but it still takes it. It is similar with the recipient bank. There it is again that the money, when it finally arrived, is not immediately valued. That's where it's gonna take again. Ladies and gentlemen, this delay is fully at the expense of customers, consumers and consumers. The banks, on the other hand, benefit! You'll benefit three times. First of all: They save themselves the interest of the account that is transferred from, because the money is gone right away. They then make the second, because they have the opportunity to invest the money in this interim phase in the short term – money that they do not actually belong to. Thirdly, they often earn by means of fixed interest, which they calculate from the account of the person who receives this transfer, possibly overlaid his account, but the credit comes and does not come. So he has to pay longer overdrafts than he needs. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Sourry!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this problem has been known to us for years. We Greens have already made a request for this in the last legislative period. But as so often this request was postponed – then with the argument that the implementation of the EU directive we have here today would be anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, this argument led us to wait over a year and a half, where customers pay and banks benefit. That's really bad, and it's the last time we've lost it. Now you are in line with the EU Directive, at least in terms of its immediate value, i.e. the page concerning the beneficiary bank. There's a shortening. However, Mr Jarolim, we must point out that: If you reduce the period of transfer, you will continue to allow the banks a transitional period until 2012. This means three more years in which customers pay again and the banks profit from the back. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you are saying that electronic changeovers do not work from today to tomorrow. No one needs that anyway. But that it should take three years for such a change to take place, that is really unbelievable. If that were true, I would have to worry enormously about the technological standard of our local banks. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a further delay is simply not to be seen, and we therefore call for this shortened transfer period to take effect as early as November of this year. It is not to be seen why customers are expected to wait even longer until 2012. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to accept this request in the interests of consumers and customers.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14219	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14290	Mr Steindl has now come to terms with a request for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14311	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Honey, one thing we have to do, too. Calculate in the event of a Europe-wide changeover: We have 27 European countries with completely different standards, especially in the IT sector and in many other areas. We simply need a certain time to set out the measures now so important and uniform framework conditions for banks, for consumers across Europe. It is gratifying that this can now also flow into Austria. We have equal conditions for all our consumers and market participants, and there can no longer be any further distortions of competition. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to me that there is also harmonisation in the area of deposit guarantee, including harmonisation in small and medium-sized enterprises vis-à-vis private individuals. Here we have this 50 000 € deposit guarantee for the first step, and with 1.1.2011 we will also be raised accordingly, i.e. 100 000 €. Thus, legal persons and individuals are equal. I'm also very much in favour of having us with 1. In January 2010 the total amount of deposit protection for natural persons was reduced to €100 000, because there could not be a hammock here for people who would have to pay the State or the taxpayer over and over again. We know what this banking crisis caused throughout the world last year in the acceptance of liabilities by the national states and security services of the states. For example, we know that in Europe around €2.5 trillion was necessary to take over corresponding liabilities and collateral. In the U.S., it was €1.2 trillion, in China €465 billion. I believe it is very important and essential, Mr State Secretary, that we should do everything we can to ensure that we have, at least once, a financial market surveillance at European level, as well as at international level, that such speculations and banking operations, which have really caused us serious concerns, can prevent us from coming in. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14356	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law in 207 of the Supplements. Mr Hizu is an additional request from Mr Weinzinger, colleagues, and a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Honey, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to vote on the supplementary proposal, then on the part of the amendment concerned, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. The vote will now be taken on the additional amendment tabled by Mr Weinzinger, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the insertion of a new point in Rule 3 and the resulting renumbering. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall come to the vote on the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen, referring to Article 2(42). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Government's proposal and the title and receipt. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[16:07:08]] 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (168, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Civil Fund Act 1996 (214 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14436	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Jakob Auermit's speech is five minutes' desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14469	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this amendment of the Civil Society Act, we guarantee the fire brigades a kind of budget guarantee, regardless of the economic power, regardless of the tax revenue. This ensures that €93 million per year, composed of fire protection tax revenues and from the resources of the disaster funds, are available for fire brigades. There is therefore a medium-term guarantee of investment planning. We are all happy, ladies and gentlemen, when a force is needed, whether it be mountain rescue, fire brigade, red cross, and quick help comes. But it's also sometimes said: So much money and so much vehicle and new stuff and what do I know, and if not too much would be made available there. I expressly say that is the minimum we have. The minimum requirement! Along the highways, noise protection walls – I claim, sometimes too many – are made, tunnels, over tunnels and so on. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Neubauer]] This is quite gratifying for the workers in terms of noise protection, but what difficulties that poses for the rescue forces are unknown to most people. We need other breathing aids, with greater air volume, because here not only the access path or the access path, but also the withdrawal has to be calculated. We need other equipment, we need vehicles that are specially equipped. We need special vehicles, for example helicopters, to be able to make rescues from high-rise houses. Climate change is also noticeable, disasters occur at shorter intervals – hot water, snow pressure disasters, storms. In the process of processing, in the opening of traffic routes, in the demolition of roofs in front of company objects – the fire brigade is in demand everywhere. The firemen are often in use for weeks. The number of chemical transports, the transport of dangerous goods, is increasing – a particular challenge to expertise, a particular challenge in terms of the corresponding equipment in terms of technology. I would like to give you a small demolition from the May of this year’s “fire journal”, which shows what challenges, what width of requirements and what needs are given. A forest fire in Tyrol in the high alpine terrain: 870 forces – the erasure of this forest fire is only possible with the help of mountain rescue, because high alpine terrain, eight kilometers supply required, extreme stress. Ladies and gentlemen, or another case: a train accident. 1 000 volts of wagon voltage, 15,000 volts of railway current. What know-how is necessary here in order to get out of this danger potential can probably be thought of by anyone. Or a tractor storage in the Danube: This is not a dangerous situation thanks to God, because there were no people in danger here, but the challenge for the diving team was greater than perhaps assumed. Campus Vienna in full fire: 60 containers burned, ladies and gentlemen! Or recently a fire in a cultural property in Linz, in the Ursulinenhof. Or Arenberg Castle, also a cultural property: Roof-chair fire. How difficult the removals in such cases are, it is likely that only a person who has been involved in such an operation and has been able to find out what challenges are being put on the forces here, which technical requirements are necessary. Or, one last example: a bus in full fire. Ladies and gentlemen! If you yourself – and I don't say that to indicate – since the 15th century. Year of life is active in the fire brigade, has trained candidates for decades, even has commanding training, and perhaps has some knowledge of what is necessary, also knows that this support for the fire brigades is absolutely justified. I hope that we will vote unanimously, and I will continue to say: It's the minimum equipment! By 2011 we will secure a corresponding investment opportunity for the fire brigades in Austria. And I would like to take the opportunity to thank all the military forces, the fire brigade as well as the rescue of the mountains, all the volunteers, especially on behalf of my group and, as I hope, on behalf of all of us here in the house. We may sometimes not appreciate what great work these people are doing!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14566	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gäßner for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14588	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already told Mr Auer today that I could, as I speak directly behind him to the fire brigade, make it short and say that he is actually quite right with what he said. If you might need a little support regarding the noise protection walls: Let's start in Upper Austria – I'd like to help you build less there in the future than we already have. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Jakob Auer as well as representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Auer has already pointed out how versatile the area of use of firearms is. If it is stated in this legislative proposal that, as a basis for the calculation of this sum, the fire protection tax is also used, I believe that this is almost old-fashioned, because the fire brigades of the fire brigades are actually already the smaller part. The technical missions in all areas and, above all, the knowledge that the volunteer workers of the fire brigades have to bring with them are particularly important here. There are great achievements that are being done for us, and I therefore very much hope that there is unanimity here. It's exciting already: Whenever it comes to fire brigades and what they cost when the costs are discussed, it is very common to hear: That's too expensive! Is that necessary? Is that necessary: three fire brigades, four fire brigades in one place? – However, when the disaster occurs, it can not go fast enough that people, well trained and with the best equipment, are there immediately and provide help! Especially in the use of disasters, the recent years have shown what the voluntary firemen and women were able to do. They have been serving for weeks to help the people who, for example, are really under pressure, especially in floods. That is why all of them should be grateful and all of them should be truly respected, and it remains only the wish that we will have enough of those people who volunteer – in all areas, ladies and gentlemen, very much in the future. I have read a comment in the draft law or in the form, which I may wish to correct; that is what it says: "Effects on employment and economic location in Austria: The law has no direct impact on these areas." Well, I very much hope that these €93 million will have a very direct impact on industry's workforce in this area and also on the economic location! I am convinced that, in Austria, we have enough companies, although I would like to add that these institutions, the instruments that these cars can produce, do not want certain companies to have a competitive advantage. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there are many organisations that make themselves available in the event of a disaster, and I am certainly not the only one here who has also received a letter from the Red Cross indicating that the Red Cross is also in use in the event of disaster. This has already been discussed in the Committee. It was said that the Red Cross would not pay a VAT in many areas, and increasing this amount from €90 million to €93 million would be so much compensation for the fire brigades. I believe that all organizations, especially those who volunteer Serving in all these areas, getting to a table and looking at: What is really necessary in equipment also in other areas?, in order to then perhaps spend some million different. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14658	Mr Weinzinger has now come to speak with a 3 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14679	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I could also make it easy for myself and say that what my two previous speakers said is completely right. That's right, too! However, we still have one aspect to highlight, namely that we do not only employ young people to an ever-increasing extent through the fire brigade, but also encourage them to do something for the community. I was at the Ried-Nord section fire brigade last Saturday. Over 100 youth groups there alone! Over 100 youth groups have participated in this competition! It is extremely fascinating and impressive to observe how young people there are enthusiastically, with enthusiasm for use and with discipline – the little g’stuffs up to the 16-, 18-, 19-year-old boys and girls who are trying to cut off those who want to join the community. This is a great job for our youth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, such measures as increasing the disaster fund must be taken, even if we all know what financial situation our Republic is in, when we know that we are writing a deficit significant in the current year, and next year, and possibly the deficit is expected to be even higher than before. But then you have to say: What is the task of our state? The task is, among other things, an essential part of ensuring the safety of the population. And for the safety of the population, the fire brigade is also acting. It is therefore necessary to take appropriate measures in the case of fire brigade. But not only in the fire brigade, as Mr Gaßner said quite correctly, but of course this also applies to other rescue organizations, who are there and are fully committed in the event of disaster. There is also a consideration that we have often presented, even during the previous legislative period, whether we could not do away with VAT in the acquisitions of the equipment by the firearms, but also by other rescue organizations, because these organizations are carrying out state tasks. If it did not exist, the state would have to jump into it with any organizations, and that would be much more expensive than before. We have therefore tabled a motion for a resolution; the resolution reads as follows: "The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council a government proposal to refund VAT on the purchase of equipment which: intended for the operations of firearms and rescue aid organisations.’; Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to consider whether we cannot do something in this direction and accept this motion for a resolution. Live our fire brigades! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14758	The request put forward by Mr Weinzinger is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14819	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14840	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! It has already been mentioned by Mr Auer: It is a minimum measure provided here for fire brigades. Because this fire brigade is very important to us, we will, of course, be very happy to agree to this minimum annual 93 million. It has already been said a lot about the importance of fire brigades, but I would like to add something that has certainly been too short. I think voluntary fire brigades are indispensable. Just consider what cost it would cost if each community had to set up a professional fire brigade. These costs would be impossible for small communities. So what these volunteer firemen do here cannot be counted high enough. Especially in my profession as executive officer, I have often seen what is being done there. In addition, I have a son who has been active in the volunteer fire brigade for several years and often has to get up three times a night, bring his engagement and go back to work the next day. I have already noticed the problem, which is very often related to employers. My son had to take a vacation – voluntarily – in order to help his colleagues in the fire brink in 2005 such as Bregenzerwald and Montafon. This is even the smaller evil, but I know from colleagues who have great problems with the employer because they are not left out of the workplace. If some of this help is banned, we must consider how we can give employers a bonus or a sugar, that they are willing to even risk the voluntary use of these people who use time and health, to support their lives, and to compensate them for this loss of work. I believe that this would be an important contribution to society. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I would also like to make a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In Vorarlberg, the ÖVP state government, especially the head of state Sausgruber, repeatedly emphasizes the honorary office, and especially the people in this voluntary fire department and in these aid organisations are volunteering. Therefore, in particular, I would like to ask my ÖVP colleagues from Vorarlberg – unfortunately there is no one here now; ah, but, Mr Kopf is here, sorry – to support this motion for a resolution. Here you can prove that you do not speak differently in front of the Arlberg and behind the Arlberg by supporting our request. That would be an important sign for the Honorary Office, which would be an important sign for the ÖVP. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I therefore expect from you, especially from the ÖVP, a clear yes to our motion for a resolution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e14942	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Hagen is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15049	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler with desired 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15070	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! It won't take 4 minutes. The intention of this law is to establish planning security. This will be achieved. It is not new that on this occasion, when it comes to payments from the disaster fund or to the provision of ‘firemen’s speeches’. I also believe that this has its authority, where it is concerned with the recognition of voluntary benefits. However, one point remains open: At the latest since the so-called "century high water" in 2002, these agenda items have repeatedly led to social, labour law, all possible improvements for those concerned. There are now a number of motions for resolutions which, from our point of view, are going back to it in part or beyond the objective. But an intention of the applicants is already to be honoured: here again to create pressure that there is something going on, because in the large In fact, it is the case that precisely these problems arise. I am not aware of any initiative that would have brought about some special improvement, although in autumn 2002, all the stones and legs had sworn, which would not be done in this area. You've got to say that. Nevertheless, I think these proposals can be improved because, of course, we already have to look at how otherwise they fit into the legal framework. But it will be up to the government to take initiatives here at last. Everything has already been said in the matter itself, and that must have been it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15108	Mr Obernosterer is now speaking on request for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15129	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that all four previous speakers from the other political groups have really raised this point: The 300,000 firemen in Austria today are given the financial assurance by this law that the emergency reversing investment can be made that the allocations are not dependent on the economy. Mr Weinzinger has raised a very important issue: the companionship for our young people. There are already a lot of fire brigades where there are fire brigades. You all know this, I don't need to explain it to you. And I would just like to highlight this comradeship, which is maintained and taught in the fire department, and these clear hierarchies that exist there, as a very important part of today's society. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein, at the FPÖ, as well as at representatives of the BZÖ.]] This is something that the state cannot regulate, but it is taught only in the voluntary associations, such as in the fire brigades. These hierarchies are not kept as clear by the young people as they have said in these voluntary associations, starting from the fire brigade to music groups. That the fire brigade gives us, of course, a sense of security – which we sometimes do not know at all, except it happens in our circle – is what we should call ourselves into consciousness again. That is why it is important that the fire brigade can plan clearly for the next few years and acquire the appropriate equipment in order to cover the disasters that have long ceased to have to do with fire alone. We must remember that from 1995 to 2008, the number of fire brigades doubled. Especially the snow disaster in my home, in upper Carinthia – that was not long ago, you all know it from the media – has once again clearly shown how safe you can feel when there is a working fire brigade in every village. [[Demonstrative applause with the FPÖ and with representatives of the BZÖ.]] That is why I would like to thank you very much for the unanimity given here today on behalf of the fire brigade – I myself was active fireman, now I am only more support member – and to close my speech with the fire brigade, with a “good salvation!”.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15189	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl, Member of Parliament, with a request for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15211	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate High House! I believe it has already been clearly expressed by the previous speakers in terms of the importance and recognition of the voluntary fire department and the blue light organizations. I myself am also more often involved in fire brigade competitions and can only confirm the excellent performance of the fire brigades as a whole, but above all in the field of youth education and youth training. This law guarantees the volunteer fire brigades a minimum security for the years 2009 to 2011 of € 93 million annually. We know that the fire brigade is state-owned, but also that the federal government has to provide about €20 million for the years 2009 to 2011. I think it is not possible to assess and evaluate this activity and the operations. The fire brigades, an important social point In addition, there is a great deal in the field of youth education, which is very important for the Community and for the communities. I would like to thank you very much for the great achievements, and from my personal point of view, I can give you an example of this, namely one from my district of Neunkirchen. Here, through the regional use of the volunteer firearms and also the operational fire brigades, it has succeeded in limiting a large fire in a company in such a way that more than 200 jobs are now secured. But this commitment not only safeguarded over 200 jobs, but also diverted fates from families and family members. From this point of view, I would like to thank the volunteer firearms as a whole and the Blue Light organizations very much – the fire brigades with their greeting “Good Wehr!”.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15253	Mr Doppler has now come up with a request for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15274	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! We have thought enough; the importance of all these organisations is out of question. But we have forgotten one point, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I think this is very important, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15317	The request just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15378	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann with 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15399	Thank you, Madam President. High house! Much has been said about the need for fire brigades, the performance, the great results of youth work, the community life in many villages, where the fire brigade is often the only really functioning association, and I can only underline that. 93 million € for two and a half years, this is a first step in the right direction for minimum security, but with medium-term planning, which I say also as a business owner, I understand something else. There you start up at three to six years. That means, in principle, that is to be welcomed, but it will ultimately be expandable. In addition to this financial support, fire brigades also need many other framework conditions that have already been mentioned. I would like the National Council to initiate a survey which invites those concerned and asks: What do you really want? What do you really need?, because there are many areas that are thought of, but are never thought of, wiped out and then cast into the form of law. Let's think of the firemen themselves: This is about insurance protection. This is about social and labour security. This is also a question of recognition, credit for the pension. It is also a question of giving us protection and assistance to people who exercise the office of honor for all of us, in some cases they prefer to take up the public service. Second point, the fire brigades themselves: The availability of donations is still not possible. The VAT refund, which has been referred to, still does not take place. Since we buy expensive equipment, we build bases for fire brigades, where VAT has to be paid everywhere, in order to eventually subsidise them again via tax money. That's when I wonder if that's really good. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or the question of exemption from the basic telephone fee. There are so many cases in Austria where people are exempt from the basic phone fee. Why not the fire brigades too? Third, the companies themselves who are willing to release people for the fire brigade. You should really benefit from a bonus on a tax basis, or at least you should refund them the wage costs for the time in which their employees are working. In other words, money is important, but not all, we still need to take a lot of accompanying measures to further support the Blue Light organisations, especially the Fire Department. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15454	Now comes Mr. Ing. Chapel for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15475	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment is the intention of all, it is an important change that we all, of course, will be happy to support. This innovation is also absolutely necessary, because it ultimately ensures the functioning of voluntaryness for the future. The fire brigades do not only work in their main competence, the security question, for our society, they often work. They are, of course, primarily on-site safety expertise, with their experts in fire, for technical, chemical problems, but also for problems related to natural disasters. However, they are also a very important economic factor. Not only these 93 million, which is today, will ultimately flow into some form of economy. This amount is increased significantly by contributions from the municipalities, by own resources that the firearms themselves raise through various events, also through contributions from the population, so that the amount that is under discussion today is significantly higher. In the end, this is the basis for all the facilities, firehouses, technical equipment and equipment to be purchased and kept in operation. The fire brigades are also an essential cultural factor, in many communities, in small communities they are often the only cultural promoters. Not to be forgotten is the fact that 26 000 young people are being cared for by our fire brigades and are kept away from many other temptations precisely by this care. I think that these are all very, very important achievements for our society, for the protection of our people, and this, of course, is in the interest of all of us to secure for the future. Therefore, there is this minimum amount of € 93 million. However, this measure is also necessary by other developments, namely the fact that tax revenue from the fire tax is declining, as is the income tax and corporate tax, which has been drastically reduced some time ago, and tax reform also has a negative effect on these tax revenues. It is therefore absolutely right that fire brigades do not have to suffer because the legislator makes changes here. However, the fire brigades are still burdened, with often up to a third of the costs for various purchases. Therefore, we should also consider whether there are other ways to ensure the financing of fire brigades without always having to become bitters somewhere. Today's contribution is a step in this direction. In this sense, thank you to all the volunteers!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15526	Now comes Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15548	Madam President. – Mr Lopatka, I ask you: Be careful that you don't fall off the chair! [[State Secretary Dr Lopatka]] [[an arm on the leaning of a chair next to him]] [[telephoned.]] You're so deep! [[Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka: Thank you for your concern!]] You're welcome! But it wasn't meant to be evil. [[Abg. May. Kogler: For that he has a second!]] – Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Many of you come from Vienna and will not be able to understand what I am now saying – those who come from the country. You remember, many years ago it was claimed that the fire brigade only drank alcohol and did nothing else. That is what those who were not with the Weirs said. If this really has only ever been a little in the approach, then this time is definitely long, long, long over. The challenges to the weirs are very great. There are more and more technical uses. There are thanks to God, also more and more young women who choose to become active in a volunteer fire brigade, and this is very beneficial to this body. There are also enormous mental strains, because it happens again and again that young firemen, young firemen, also young firemen in accidents, have to experience what it means when people are seriously injured, encounter death there, often even after motorcycle accidents, are busy collecting body parts. So really a big load! That is why the proposal we have made also takes account of the pension system. Many will ask: Why the pension system? This has nothing to do with the pension! If someone is actually active in a blue light organization – not only in the fire brigade, also in the Red Cross – and is regularly active, and looks at difficult operations there, it is a great burden, even for someone who has only a normal office job. When he gets up at night when alarm is, and he is on duty, and he does it for many years, then it is very stressful, and he provides a performance that brings us, the state, very much – for that could not be organized in a different way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why our proposal – I very much ask you to come closer to it; I know that you will not agree to this request today, but we will also make this request as a self-employed one, and therefore I would ask you to consider whether it can be supported – that if someone does this regularly – and this can be understood by using the application protocols – he will then also acquire pension-based times so that he can also accept a small thanks from the company for his commitment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] VAT has already been mentioned. The Red Cross is free. I think we should find a uniform system by which we can ensure that blue light organizations, when they buy equipment, are exempt from VAT, but also when they build buildings essential for their activity. Often, the voluntary associations end up in such a way that the building material is purchased and then the volunteers also build the building. There you can also exempt the purchase of these materials from VAT. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much to all those who are active as volunteers! As politicians, we have a great duty not only to thank words but also to do so. This is what we are doing today with this decision, and there will certainly be further follow-up.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15628	Now comes Mrs Mag. Rudas with a desired 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15649	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Quite clear: Those people who risk their lives every day to help others must be supported at least in their equipment and financially as much as possible. That's why it's to be welcomed. I am particularly pleased, however, that the debate was so harmonious and that everyone agreed, including Mr Weinzinger, who, in my opinion, has taken the right approach, that we can be happy when young people get involved in the voluntary fire brigade. That's how I see it: It is also better for young people to learn to help each other to stand up for each other, look at each other, than when they walk around in any kind of burgers. That's why: Yes, absolutely, promotion of voluntary fire brigades! [[Abg. New builder:... burgers at the fire brigade!]] – For so long the excitement has been waiting for itself! I've been waiting, yeah! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Burschenschaft and fire brigade do not exclude each other!]] Therefore: Thank you to all firemen, thank you to all the fire brigades! We should give them every support, especially to show young people that they stand up for each other, that they keep one another together and that one looks at one another. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15732	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 168 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on VAT refunds on the purchase of equipment by firearms and rescue organizations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, colleagues, on the implementation of a package of measures for volunteers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on the appropriate consideration of the times of voluntary benefits for blue-light organisations under pension law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[16:48:28]] 15. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (158, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Increase in Austria's quota for the International Monetary Fund (215 d.a.) 16. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (195, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Performance of an Additional Contribution to the International Agricultural Development Fund (IFAD 8) (216 d.b.) 17. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (148, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the State of Israel on mutual assistance in customs matters and Annex (217b) 18. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (157 d.a._Other Organiser Protocol in accordance with Art. 34 of the Treaty on European Union amending the Convention on the Use of Information Technology in the Customs Sector as regards the establishment of a system of proof of documentation for customs purposes (218, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15861	We now come to the items 15 to 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Grastaur's speech with a desired speaking time of 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15891	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! My very appreciated predecessors Kurt Gaßner and Jakob Already in the Committee on Finance, I have already broken a lance for the firearms – quite rightly, I have to say. I also do not want to warm up the subject, but I would like to make a few fundamental points, including with regard to the budget. I have recently noticed that the demands and wishes are endless, that everyone demands and wants funding, which is only possible in some way. On the other hand, we know that the economic situation is falling dramatically and that revenue from taxes remains very low. This example, with the voluntary fire brigades and the security of €93 million as a minimum contribution for the next years, could ultimately – and this has already been mentioned – also lead to the Red Cross, the rescue of the mountains, the Samaritans and other social institutions to come up with such a demand. If you look at this from a budget view, you have to say: If everyone comes now and insists on the things he believes he has to get, then we will never be able to close the budget hole! – From my point of view, that will not be possible either. I can remind you – especially the ladies and gentlemen who hold government responsibility – that this year and also next year we will probably be up to €20 billion. Bringing together deficits in the government budget and debt levels as high as before and that we will have debt of 80 percent of GDP due to planning by the end of 2013 – at least € 250 billion, in the worst case € 300 billion. [[Call the FPÖ: A madness!]] This debt can no longer be deducted if we continue to operate in the state in a hundred years. I am asking whether we are acting responsibly, whether we are acting responsibly towards our youth and toward the next generations coming after us. Is it not our duty to immediately develop strategies that are sustainablely reducing this debt? I do not understand the indifference shown by the government, and I do not understand that the government is simply indifferent to this development. The situation is more than serious, ladies and gentlemen, and I believe that we are all – everyone! – our contribution to the situation must be different. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just think of what Professor Felder said on Sunday in the press hour: It is a very worrying development in Austria as regards state debt, and it is a frightening situation. – He expressed that personally. I think the hour's commandment is the following – even if it always says, there is no alternative to the current process; I think there is one –: First of all, we must begin to reduce expenditure considerably. As a politician, I think we have to go ahead with good example. We just need to see that we give the population a good example, and say: We reduce our salaries, we reduce party funding, we reduce all our representation costs and so on – temporarily definitely. Only in this way will we achieve that the population, when burden comes on them, is also ready to temporarily tighten the belt a little bit closer. And that also concerns the fire brigades – that is what we are on this issue again. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: How does this fit in with Mr. Hofer's comments?]] - I'm still coming to talk. Secondly, the coalition must deal with the big pieces of reform. What prevents Mr. Faymann and Mr. Vice-Chanceller Pröll from moving forward the state, administration and health reform? What prevents her? Do they lack courage? Is there a lack of will? – If we don’t do anything, we’ll definitely blame the Austrians. The third point I would like to put forward is the following: All the money flows going abroad – and I am on the subject – have to be considered whether it is necessary to allow these funds to flow even in times like this, in such difficult economic times. We are therefore strictly opposed to increasing the agricultural development fund, and we are also strongly opposed to increasing the share of the IMF. However, we are in favour of accepting the system of proof of proof of customs purposes and the agreement on mutual assistance with Israel. The two mayors and all the other mayors who are here in the National Council should also be interested in the sustainable restoration of our state. And I would like to see this energy, this momentum that was determined for the fire brigade, used even when it comes to the renovation of the state budget. In view of this development, as a responsible person for the debt mountain in Austria, I am sure I could no longer sleep quietly. I'm surprised the government can do that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15950	Now, Mr. Dr. Bartenstein with a desired speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e15971	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grastaur is right in some cases, but in some cases it is not – especially when I am thinking of the words of his colleague, Mr Hofer, who said: VAT refund for fire brigades! In other places it was meant: TV duty exemption for fire brigades! – Not that I am also one of those who really want to give the firearms as good as anything, but just there you have to ask yourself: What can we afford and what can we not afford? And so it is with the question: Are we making our contributions to international organisations? Are we stockpiling our shares in the International Monetary Fund as planned? And here, I think, is what the opposition, at least the FPÖ and Mr Grabauer have said here, very, very short-sighted and, at best, short-term politically usable, because: For example, let us consider what the International Monetary Fund to stabilise towards Central and Eastern European countries and their finances only a few months ago! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Romania, Hungary, Poland, Serbia, Ukraine, the state bankruptcy – with all the consequences for Austrian investors and Austrian banks operating in these countries – would not have helped the International Monetary Fund together with the World Bank and the EBRD. And so it is more right than cheap that we participate in this with an increase of more than 240 million shares. – This does not cost € 220 million, but in reality the central bank is involved here, and it is only about replacing the loss of interest of € 3.5 million per year. We have to do this and we'll still be worth it. Normally, the Monetary Fund is for us a structure that reports on us once a year – in the framework of so-called Article IV reviews. We also know the Monetary Fund as a financing institution for many developing countries. But precisely now – and the times are not normal – in the crisis the Monetary Fund has proved to be a whole, very important instrument for stabilizing the economies of Central and Eastern Europe – I have already called the respective countries. And that's why: Any support and commitment to the International Monetary Fund! The Monetary Fund is a global structure. Let's be so honest to know: We are not yet members of the G 20, nor are we members of the G 8, but we are members of the International Monetary Fund! That is to say, when it comes to the new financial and financial control architecture in this world, we are at least at the table about the International Monetary Fund. Not everything is gold that shines. We have also been annoyed by the International Monetary Fund. It is right that Pröll, Austria has criticized the IMF. Why? – Because Austria is probably indirectly, perhaps even directly, damaged by something that is commonly called false analysis. There were double figures, because false calculations were made, and the situation in Eastern Europe, as dramatic as it is anyway, was presented even more dramatically, with direct feedback on our banks and indirectly on our credit quality. We have not forgotten this to the Monetary Fund, and there Mr. Dominique Strauss-Kahn, head of the Monetary Fund and the Monetary Fund, has something like reparation towards us – at least in the political sense of the word. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Speaking of Dominique Strauss-Kahn: We should also be aware of this as Europeans: The International Monetary Fund is still a structure, a financial institution that is dominated by Europe; usually a European head of the Monetary Fund. Let's see if it can stay that way in the future, but now it's the case. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That means, even if in a few years after the crisis, some things will be different, including regulatory policy, that the International Monetary Fund needs and will be worth it as at least a European financial structure. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are also in the future self-confident and proud members and payers of the International Monetary Fund, which, for example today, says that the severe recession in the USA is good Finally, in 2010 a careful upturn was possible and it was seen that the risks would far outweigh the opportunities in the short term! This too is the International Monetary Fund: a very, very important think tank, which is similar to the OECD for our policy decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16056	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16077	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! I'm allowed to turn to the two customs fields. First of all: Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the State of Israel on mutual assistance in customs matters. This Agreement shall cover all forms of assistance in customs matters. There should be a significant improvement in cooperation and thus an increase in efficiency. Secondly, Amendment to the Convention on the Use of Information Technology in the Customs Sector as regards the establishment of a system of proof of documentation for customs purposes. A file of documents is intended to achieve significant improvements in the customs sector. Information on ongoing or completed transmissions shall be provided. There are possibilities for questioning, of course, while respecting data protection provisions. It is much easier to make a specific request for assistance and to coordinate investigations. With regard to both points, which represent a significant improvement, there is consensus in the House. In the same committee, where these two points were negotiated, the 2008 product piracy report was also completed, so it does not get into plenary. I can speak to him here because he can be seen in connection with it. The Product Piracy Act for the Protection of Intellectual Property is a more than toothless instrument. This report is to be seen as a call for help from the customs authorities. Product piracy is not an official offence. There is the possibility to complain privately. This was done in 2008 only in five out of over 1,500 cases. The majority of the goods are destroyed by the destruction of the goods. There is no further procedure. And in 132 cases the product was returned despite finding that it was forgeries. So that's where everything ad absurdum leads! It would therefore be urgent to make this offence an official offence, because the reference to the Financial Penal Code – also in the Product Piracy Act – should be read; Result zero – is dead right. Here is a case that will not and cannot actually occur. Mr. State Secretary Lopatka, you are faced with the demand that you should delete 625 posts in your department during this legislative period. It therefore also raises the critical question: What to do What about administrative simplification? Or: Will this also affect the density of controls by reducing the control effect? I believe that Jacky Maier from SPÖ was clearly re-establishing this from the speaker's desk. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. This is now regulated in a way that can be done in a total of four ways; also product piracy – all in all hardly dissuasive, because an announcement to the district administration authority is in no way dissuasive in what is being circulated here. In this area, organised crime is now worth more than in the drugs sector. I believe that it is therefore high in time to oppose effectively, i.e. to find a new standard of penalties, especially in drug counterfeiting, where overdose or underdose occurs, where people are actually deceived and harmed health. This should be done as quickly as possible to create a new regime. The staff you have in the Ministry of Finance, Mr. State Secretary, damaged by the last two years of your reforms in your home is increasingly turning away from his employer. They have made a survey themselves and have had to find that there is hardly any more identification with the employer. They should therefore finally counteract the balding in the form of the removal of 625 plantations. If you ask where the savings will be, you get the answer, you don't know yet. I have already come to know from normally well-informed circles that the “scripers” in your ministry are already working on designing these post marks. They wouldn't find themselves in the ministry, in front of the department. Control density will suffer. I'm afraid the commitment will continue to decline. I must therefore urge you to counter this trend.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16151	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16173	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! First of all, a few brief comments on the customs agreement with Israel. I do not wish to hide in plenary that we in the Committee have asked whether this agreement ensures that actions by Israeli authorities beyond the national borders, in particular beyond the 1967 borders, do not result in Austrian customs authorities dealing with such acts. This was expressly denied and the compliance with these standards, in particular on the basis of UN resolutions on the occupied areas, is ensured. Now to Agenda item 15. Mr Bartenstein pointed out the enormous importance of the International Monetary Fund, particularly in times of a world economic crisis, as a result of a global financial crisis. And the example of Eastern Europe has shown very well how important this fund is. I should like to make this very clear in the example of the neighbouring country of Hungary: If Hungary had not received the 20 billion euro credit a few weeks ago, then a kind of state bankruptcy would have been the result – with all the consequences, not only for Austrian banks, but also for Austrian businesses, for employees, for consumption. This was only possible because the IMF has become a leading organisation. With the help of the European Union Solidarity Fund, whose funds were also doubled due to the Austrian Government's activity, this loan could be granted. I admit that the International Monetary Fund has not always boasted over the last few decades. It is only to be remembered what proposals and guidelines have come from there, for example, in the crisis in South America and Asia, what the problem for the population, for which there has been economic activity in these countries due to the IMF's advice at that time. Yes, this institution must continue to reconsider its kind of recommendations, but also its actions, which it demands from States which are seeking assistance. The IMF is already doing that! And at this point you just have to admit Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who is not very long in this office, that something has happened. This made it possible for the ongoing talks with a number of countries to be resumed. But for us, the IMF is even more important – Dr. Bartenstein has already pointed out –: In a globalised world of free movement of capital, a reasonable regime of global financial and capital markets will not be possible nationally. It will be an important step if we are given uniform supervisory structures in Europe, perhaps a common supervision. But this will still not be able to ensure that speculators do not operate across the globe with billions of people, benefit from the gaps that exist and can subsequently destabilise entire financial systems, banks or countries. That's where we need international institutions. And we do not currently see anything other than that of the Bretton Woods Agreement in 1944, and with that the IMF becomes a decisive hinge to create a new world financial order. We all hope that, following the decisions of the G 20 summit in London, the expansion of the Financial Stability Forum will create a Financial Stability Board of those institutional frameworks, which will ensure the necessary regulation for global capital markets worldwide. And if we, as Austrians, want to see our interests there, then we have to stand by the decisions we have taken, and we also have to participate in the capital increases, because only in this way is it guaranteed that the IMF can fulfil its function – in the interests of the whole world, but also of Europe and Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16231	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16252	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter, as far as the last part of your speech is concerned, I am right in any case, including from a green point of view: There is no question that international rules are needed to ensure fair handling in the financial sector. However, the focus will be on social and environmental factors and also on sustainability in the future. To date, however, there have only been lip confessions in this respect. I am also responsible for keeping international financial institutions active and operational. Completely correct! But it is really shortsighted, Mr Grastaur, what you are presenting here, and also the situation is not appropriate. It is, honestly, a poverty certificate for the FPÖ if you have such a narrow view on these important international financial policy issues. I would also like to make this clear to you on the basis of a few specific points. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grainy.]] Criticism of the international financial institutions is also necessary and has always been practised by the green side. I am thinking only of a truly non-essential voice, namely Joseph Stiglitz, the Nobel Prize winner and former World Bank Chief Economist. It has rightly criticised the neoliberal model of globalisation and has also discussed the need for fair trade relations and development links, which should also take place in the financial sector. All of this is still on! I take a very specific example, Mr Grastaur, where you are opposed: The International Fund for Agricultural Development, the IFAD, is an institution that is particularly committed to what we stand for here, namely for development precisely among those population groups in the developing countries most affected by the current development, namely the rural population. In 1977, this fund was set up, mainly small loans granted, provides health care funds, regional small projects. It therefore pursues exactly the strategy that is useful and useful to prevent the problems of over-developed urbanisation in these countries in order to increase the opportunities of rural regions to improve the living conditions of people in the regions. Such projects are concrete development policy! But They don't want to make money for it. [[Abg. Grain Duration: In times like this we have no money!]] – “In times like this we have no money!” – This is shortsighted, there is no perspective of international solidarity! Finally, our economies also benefit from growing economies in these countries. Only cooperation, only cooperation is an opportunity! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Grossmann.]] We do not see an alternative to this, and therefore we will, of course, give our consent to these two points. I do not want to hide that the recently published World Agricultural Report is really a unique product where the World Bank, the FAO, the World Health Organization and UNESCO stand behind it. This report makes it quite clear that business as usual in the development policy promotion of agricultural development is not possible, but we need a course correction. Ladies and gentlemen, this is already a strong signal from international organisations. But the promotion of environmental and social processes must first be implemented! The promotion of women in rural areas and rural areas is also a very important priority in this report. With regard to technology development, it is clear from this report that only sustainable, ecological development and research, and not agro-gen technology, will secure the future of world nutrition. If this is said by an international organisation, we are all invited to make available the funds to my colleague, to strengthen and advance this strategy accordingly. I would just like to mention that we will also give our approval to the agreement with the State of Israel. For data protection reasons, however, we will reject TOP 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16301	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16322	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grastaur, in his speech, also Referring to the previous item on the agenda concerning the Civil Fund Act, it is reasonable to point out that, especially in times of budgetary problems, declining economic performance and declining economic power, we have every right to have the budget under control. I'll give it to him. He then meant that others could come and want support, and Mr Gaßner mentioned the Red Cross. In order to inform all Members of this House: In the Upper Austria country, the rescue contribution per head of population is fixed at €7.04 for 2009. By law, therefore, the community is obliged to deliver or pay a certain amount – to which we also confess – to the rescue organization, to the Red Cross. The fire brigades don't have this possibility! – That's what I'm saying. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the Federal Law on the performance of an additional contribution to the International Agricultural Development Fund, IFAD. To the contribution of 11.03 million, Mr Grabauer said that in times like this, we would not have the money. It is true that we have budgetary problems, but it would be very short-sighted if we did not commit ourselves to development aid within the framework of an international community, because this is precisely the poorest of the poor. He is supposed to look at the pictures of the refugees on the Italian coast or on the coast of Spain, then he knows what dramatic circumstances in those countries of the world that benefit these funds. – I deliberately say so, because these people are so poor. We should know the following, ladies and gentlemen, and that is what I am saying, because the Committee also said that we have surpluses in Austria and in Europe – and that is also a saying: If you give me a fish, I'll be full for a day! If you teach me how to fish, I'm tired every day! Ladies and gentlemen, we should do everything we can to enable the people of these countries to learn something. However, we need these additional resources to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16377	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16398	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Appreciate viewers on the ranks! In this Act, the Republic of Austria undertakes to pay about €11 million in the International Agricultural Development Fund. That is good in itself, that is a real contribution, because the developing countries need help – but do not ask in this way. One must already pay great attention to the fact that Austrian companies also benefit from it. Mr Pirklhuber, since the start of IFAD's funding activity, Austrian companies have achieved only 5.1 million US dollars of contracts. That's, please, nothing at all. In fact, there is an investment in inferior, simple technologies. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No! 700 projects...!]] Mainly countries such as Italy and France deliver Ural land machinery that deliver physical services, and with our money the spare parts are then purchased in these countries. That can be it, please, not! That's just where the house mind is demanded. We Austrians should also provide services such as breeding cattle or agricultural machinery, such as Fendt and Pöttinger. In order to secure jobs in Austria, developing countries have been helped in the long run. Above all, however, we must offer training. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: They don't need a truck in the Sahara, colleague!]] Yes, in Sahara they don't need a truck, but there they need irrigation systems, as a company offers fields in Tyrol very well. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Please inform yourself before you talk such a nonsense! Furthermore, if we invest in such projects, we must control them ourselves in Austria: The Republic is being asked to control what is happening to these funds. Of course, development aid is also very, very important in agriculture so that people can fish every day, as the colleague said. But we need to benefit from it! If we deliver Austrian machines, then also in Austria the spare parts are bought and not with our money the foreign industrial companies are promoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16457	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16478	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! To my previous speaker: It is not necessarily the real and first idea of development cooperation in order to promote the Austrian economy. To my previous speaker from the FPÖ: Building walls, shooting ourselves internationally, not wanting to understand that we are living in a world and that we have to live on a world that is not a future promising concept. – I believe that we simply cannot make politics. That is why I find it very positive and very welcome that we are increasing both our quotas and our voting rights in the IMF – a lot has already been said about their effectiveness. I believe that it is necessary to think in parallel about how we can achieve better coordination with our, of course, very small share, at least in our voting rights group. And once again, a coherent Austrian development policy is necessary for such a policy in the IMF – that is to say, the coordination of different policy areas among themselves, and the fact that they do not interact. There has recently been an investigation by the ÖFSE, the Austrian Research Foundation for International Development, and there will be a proposal by the OFSE in summer, how this coherent policy could be better implemented in Austria. I am quite excited about these proposals, and I think we should continue to discuss them here in Parliament, because there will certainly be some cleverness in this. Secondly, to the International Fund for Agricultural Development, where we make this additional contribution of €11 million in the course of the 8. Refill, a few basic remarks. Not only that agricultural development is very important in so far as it is very often possible to achieve very large yield increases with very simple means – For example, in the field of farming with simple fertiliser methods or for example in the course of mast programs also in the field of meat, milk, egg production et cetera – there are very often other effects, especially in the field of agricultural development, which one does not think at first. I'm just saying: For example, if it succeeds to make it “salinable” – under quotation marks; more likely capable of sheltering – that the cattle is not fed by a child on the way from one feeding site to another all day, but that one proceeds to produce hay to grow protein-rich food in the backyard, then these children can go to school in the future instead of being on the go with this cow, this goat or whatever. This has quite different, much more important developmental effects, such as the fact that girls – especially those who are traveling with the cattle – get education. To have education, to have a vocational training means also to have the opportunity to get a paid job. And paid work means getting married later, getting children less and later, and smaller families make an important contribution to combating poverty, but also to ensuring food security is easier. I know that quantitative and qualitative improvements in food supply can be made in agricultural development, but I also think it is very important to point out that the issue of coherence is very important once again, because even so good agricultural development in the south does not help if we in the north make an agricultural export policy that makes it impossible to compete in the local markets with the products we highly subsidized, such as milk, and often poultry. I believe that the two things must go hand in hand: a replenishment with a common agricultural policy consistent with development policy in the EU and in Austria. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16546	There is no more mention of words here. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote; each committee proposal will be dealt with separately. First of all, we are voting on the draft federal law on the increase in Austria's quota for the International Monetary Fund and the title and receipt in 158 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill, I ask him for a sign. - That's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you also agree to the draft law at third reading, I ask you to give you a sign of this kind. – The draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft federal law on the performance of an additional contribution to the International Fund for Agricultural Development, together with the title and receipt in 195 of the Supplements. I would ask you to give me an acceptable sign. - That's accepted. If you agree to the draft law at third reading, I ask you to give me a sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request made by the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Agreement with the Government of the State of Israel on mutual assistance in customs matters and Annex in 148 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask for your consent. - That's accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Protocol in accordance with Art. 34 of the Treaty on European Union amending the Convention on the Use of Information Technology in the Customs field as regards the establishment of a system of proof of documentation for customs purposes in 157 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I'm asking for your conciliatory sign. - That's accepted. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish language versions of this State Treaty are to be made known by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. If you stand for it, I'll ask you for a sign. - That's accepted. [[17:28:17]] 19. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG) and the Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. 1975) (644/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16641	We're coming to 19. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The floor was given to the applicant, Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16668	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Martin Graf as the third President of the National Council is unbearable. [[Abg. Weinzinger: For you!]] This position has a minority of Parliament, a minority in this House before its election, it is now more than a two-thirds majority of the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: How do you know?]] SPÖ and ÖVP have ignored warnings, Martin Graf have nevertheless chosen, and now from my point of view they are relatively desperate looking for solutions. [[Abg. Großruck: We also chose you at the time!]] To this day, Martin Graf personally shows himself totally inconspicuous and also unwilling to see that, as the third President of the National Council, one simply has to show different standards of responsibility and a different sensitivity in dealing with our past, also to a religious community, of which thousands have been murdered and expelled between 1938 and 1945, as a FPÖ Secretary General. Provide the evidence It's almost weekly. The overall FPÖ is: Obviously, you can deal with criticism very hard – political criticism and withdrawal demands, so you have great problems. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Strache: That's perverse!]] [[Abg. Strache: You have problems with a democratic election outcome!]] They ignore constitutional bases such as the State Treaty or the Declaration of Independence by the FPÖ. They are extremely wretched, while in other political fields you are dealing with brutally verbal hardships against people of religious communities, but also do not hesitate to act in this way against people – whether they are children or young people – who do not have the Austrian passport. That's remarkable. The SPÖ has now made a clear declaration; many Members have also made a clear declaration in person: They want Martin Graf's resignation. The ÖVP now still spreads the protective coat over Martin Graf. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] You have even done the piece of art, although you are always opposed to event legislation, to propose an event law that does not even touch the occasion again. It is already a special piece of art to propose something to Mr Kopf, which refers to an occasion, but which can not solve the occasion, but goes by it very specifically. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head:... Event law!]] This is very, very questionable, from my point of view, because the last thing we need in this discussion is such a typical approach: You attack something, but you don't attack it either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] There is a need for attitude and clarity, and You should also state openly here today how far this improbability of Martin Graf actually goes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] Is he unbearable, yes or no? – In this regard, you should declare yourself today and not seek a way out of a constitutionally completely absurd excuse that can in no way solve the problem – in any way can not solve! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We offer a way out, namely that exactly those who have given you the confidence – and that is the National Council – can withdraw you with a two-thirds majority of this trust. This is an absolutely system-compliant, reasonable, sensible proposal. The EIA's proposal, I believe, can only be crushed in a matter of fact, and one can only crush it politically. First of all, I do it objectively: It is quite possible to discuss at a constitutional level what choices and what options certain institutions of the Republic have and what responsibilities they have to bear, but what you are doing here is the replication of the kind. 142 Federal Constitutional Act. [[Abg. Grossruck: Mrs. Oberlehrer!]] With a two-thirds majority, the National Council de facto is able to make an appeal to the Constitutional Court for violation of the federal constitution, and the Constitutional Court should then decide. There are already some questions, and you may also be able to answer them. The question is why you compare a President of the National Council with a President of the Federal Republic of Germany who is directly elected by the people. Why can't the National Council itself, which gives its representatives the confidence to withdraw this confidence itself? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller.]] This makes sense with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany: The people have chosen, and a special procedure is needed to withdraw confidence. But why do you take this road with the President of the National Council? – That is completely incomprehensible! They also compare him with national leaders, with government members, completely ignoring that every country captain is responsible for his, so to speak, national legislation: Every head of state can be selected! Each member of the Federal Government can be elected by simple majority at any time – at any time! – that is, it can be expressed to him in distrust in order to be quite precise, but at any time, exclusively for political reasons. [[Abg. Head: “Selected”?! ‘Selected’?- Oh, my God!]] You have no problem at all with the fact that the President of the Court of Auditors can be selected at any time by a simple majority in this House, which obviously does not bother you at all. [[Abg. Head: Do you want to compare this now?]] – No, I am just thinking of the absurdity of your legal argument because it does not solve the problem and is actually an exclusive refugee from political responsibility. [[Abg. Großruck:..., Mrs. Oberlehrerinde!]] It is nothing but an attempt to evade responsibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A former President of the National Council, Mr Khol, would probably call such a constitutional provision and such an approach a constitutional shooter. What kind of occasion do you think? It is not the problem of Martin Graf to break the Constitution or refuse to vote in the context of the Presidency – perhaps an occasion for you; therefore, I have no idea – that the problem of Martin Graf is a political one: that he cannot draw the border on the issues of our political past and the responsibility of the fourth highest representative of the state to religious communities in Austria, whose believers, as said, have been murdered and expelled. [[Abg. Strache: Whoever doesn't fit you is defamated! Whoever doesn't fit you is defamed!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] Mr President-in-Office of the Constitutional Court of Korinek has also expressed himself in another way, not to your proposal, because he has classified himself with a personal letter among the 32 000 people who have called for Martin Graf's resignation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have the choice: You can continue to hide behind this proposal for hiding, or You clearly confess your attitude and position. At least you could be for 30. In June, in the Constitutional Committee, your fellow Members release the vote so that they can freely decide whether they can withdraw confidence from those whom they have given confidence.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16919	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16952	Mr President. High house! We have had the opportunity to discuss this issue again on Sunday evening in the “ZENTRUM” TV discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e16973	Excuse me, Mr Deputies. – Your message could be perceived; I ask you to withdraw the Transparent. [[Abg. Grosz: The photos for the newspaper are taken!]] Please, Mr. Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e17005	There have been two remarkable statements. The one was the announcement of Klubobmann's head to make a legislative proposal here, but he himself said in the discussion that he did not solve the situation now, but it is once a proposal that we will naturally look at ourselves in peace. [[Abg. Head: That was not the intention!]] The second statement I was concerned with was that by Mr Hofer, who said that there had been a discussion here in plenary, which was very hateful. – I have to say that I reject it. I think five democratically elected parties are sitting here, and these representatives and these representatives of these parties, who have been elected democratically, are really going to discuss this matter in an objective and very responsible and very precise manner. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and the FPÖ.]] – I find hatred really has no place here in the high house. However, I would like to address another point, which seemed to me somewhat underexplained, to which Mr Graf referred in a public debate, which was the question of the basic antifascist consensus on which he meant that he did not see it as the basis of our democracy. I was concerned about this because I looked at the documents again. And whether it's the Constitutional Law of the 1st century. May 1945, in which “all the laws and regulations containing “typical thoughts of National Socialism (...) have been repealed, or whether it is the State Treaty in 1955 to remove all traces of Nazism, in “economic and cultural life”, and in which point 2 is said to be: "Austria undertakes to disband all the fascist organizations that exist in its territory, both political, military and paramilitary, as well as all other organizations that engage in any of the United Nations' activities or which are seeking to rob the people of their democratic rights," I could continue to do so, up to the law of bans we have taken very seriously. This depends not only on printing, but also on radio and media, where one “publicizes in a way that it becomes accessible to many people, denies the National Socialist genocide or other national socialist crimes against humanity, seeks grossly outrageous, approved, or justified. ” That is why we insist on this prohibition law, because this has a much, much greater dimension, beyond the re-establishment or financing of national socialist organizations: It is also about this point, § 3h. That is why this is an absolute limit for us, and there can be no relativization and nothing at all. But the basic antifascist consensus is a consensus based on democratic consensus, and that, of course, means exclusion of every dictatorship, every totalitarianism, including the communist dictatorship, that is a matter of course. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Yes!]] [[Abg. Strache: No, that doesn't mean it!]] - Yes, it is! If you are not for the basic antifascist consensus, you should answer the question as to how you feel about Italian fascism, which today is still proud that South Tyrol is with Italy and not with Tyrol, in order to formulate it this way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] That's where I wonder. We could also work out other fascisms in history, but I would just like to focus on it because it is an aspect that is not insignificant in this context. So, this is unclear, and this is an area that needs clarification. I assume that Mr Graf will certainly comment on this at some point in time, but he says that basic democratic consensus. Ludwig Adamovich emphasizes in the “Handbuch of Austrian Constitutional Law”, 6. Edition, page 82 – I really quote that now because it seems very important to me –: “But democracy, as was rightly emphasized, is not only a particular form of state organization, but also a particular form of thought and life. Their spiritual basis is the idea of tolerance, is an attitude which, free from any class and racial hatred, meets with respect for each nationalist overeminence to which fellow human beings and willingly approves of the same degree of rights that each one uses for himself. Only when this mental attitude, this will, has prevailed and strengthened in all layers of the people, will become the programmatic guiding principle of this kind. 1 B-VG has been fully implemented.’ If you are therefore committed to the basic democratic consensus, Mr Graf, we must also discuss certain statements, election forms, posters, advertisements, statements, discussions. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Now we are back in the election campaign!]] Then this is also the subject of a discussion. I say this because I want to discuss it with you, Mr Vilimsky. I did not come here with a judgment or prejudice, I am not one who says he does not want to have anything to do with you, no, on the contrary, I assume that this dialogue is necessary. This dialogue has also determined the history of the Second Republic. Some have made critical remarks about this type of dialogue, some of which have characterized it positively. I assume from the following: Here are 183 Members, and they should be responsible for our constitution, for our history, for our democracy, a reasonable, non-fulfilled, honest dialogue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why I'm trying to get here, and that's what I'm standing for. That's why this isn't an attack, not an attack, nothing at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A Friendly Counsel!]] I would just like to suggest that we discuss this once. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A friendly advice is that, say it!]] Friendly we can then ask Ewald Stadler, who is also on the speaker's list at this point, to hear a brief interpretation of what he meant in 1945 when he said that this is the liberation from a supposed tyranny. The quotations are there. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Wrongly quoted!]] – You can make this clear here when you pull off the antifa number again, Mr. Ewald Stadler. I would also like to make a point of order. I am therefore concerned that we have this discussion here, in all clarity and without escape in the role of victims, without escape in martyr roles, without producing images through simplifications that do not bring us forward, I also say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] This is also addressed to the Greens. I would just like to have a debate that will continue and help us, which will help us to send out to the people, to the many young people, to the signal that there is an effort to show history in the right light, to work out that there is no prejudices and clichés, and to confess to the basic democratic consensus, to the Constitution. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “Mister minus 10 percent”!]] Mr Grosz and Mr Westenthaler, there is nothing to laugh about. If you find that as funny as on a football court, that's the wrong moment. That's really the wrong moment! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] It is not the right instrument to swirling about this question, to shut it down and to limit it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] We should try to work this out seriously. Mr Petzner, I tell you the following: At the time, we felt that the statement of the “Employment Policy in the Third Reich” meant the breach of this basic consensus. That is why the election of the head of state Haider took place at the time. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] - Because you're making an intermediate call: In the discussion, because employment policy in the “Third Reich” was forced labour, the preparation of a racist war of attack was. You have to get through to this picture of history. I believe that this is also justified if it is part of our basic consensus. If we send this signal here in this House, I think we are making a contribution to that which is contrary to what this study about the Austrians, which has just been published in a book, shows that there is growing distrust of democracy, 20 percent can suddenly again imagine leading personalities, growing distrust of Parliament – only 28 percent still have a positive attitude towards Parliament and 14 percent to the parties! - No, that's what's happening to all the parties. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Update your story once!]] Sure, also us. But that's what's happening to all the parties here. We've been working on it, we've published a whole book on it. We've been working on this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I say to you that only 14 per cent is consent to the parties. And now I want to know if we can make it here today... – We do not work with calls, assignments, clichés, punctures, but we try to open our hearts to discuss this once today, because I think this issue deserves to be dealt with here in this thoroughness, out of responsibility to the Austrians, to the older generations, to the future generations. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Heinrich Gross, what about that? Excellent with the Victor Adler board!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “Mister minus 10 percent”!]] For me and for all of us, this is a very, very serious issue. After 1933/34, we Socialists and Socialists – historically – were in Lower Saxony, and after 1938 many of us were in concentration camps, and they are interested in a clean process. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] And on behalf of these, but also of all the others, who are millions of dead in the concentration camps, but also of this racist war of attack, it is justified that today without hatred, open heart, honest and sincere about our history is discussed, and that there is a clear statement, a debate on events and statements that have also been made today. There has been a public letter from the president of the Cultusgemeinschaft, who, I believe, was addressed to you and in which the call for dialogue is being made – I think you should start this dialogue. But You should first of all come out here, Mr Graf, and take your position and position. And the most important thing would be to apologise for these attacks on the president of the Cultus community. That would be the most important thing not only to sit and listen, but to get out, and that is why I ask you to participate in this discussion process.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e17279	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e17310	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, in fact, on this item on the agenda, we are talking about a very serious issue, namely two issues, one about unacceptable statements by the Third President of this House, inter alia, in an article in the Free Party News and the other also about constitutional matters, democracy policy matters. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We are talking about you not helping! You are...!]] [[Call:Kogler, say, you still feel]] I will try to discuss these two things separately and yet interconnected. Again: Dr. Graf, what you have written in this article against Ariel Muzicant, among other things, is unacceptable. It is also not apologisable to say that Ariel Muzicant is also unacceptable and in the past. They are the third President of this House and have to behave in accordance with this function. There is everything to be said: from the sharp condemnation of these statements to the withdrawal requests, which are repeatedly expressed, including from the quoted old VfGH President Korinek – yes, he has signed that, but that is the one side. Once again, Mr Graf: I do not accept this, the ÖVP does not accept it, and we refer this to the most decisive. I've asked you several times: Take a clear stand on this! Take it back! Sorry that would be most appropriate! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And yet, ladies and gentlemen, we are still not prepared by the ÖVP to anchor in our constitution a "Lex Graf", with a free choice of the Presidents of the National Council, to which Korinek, the same, has said that he does not mind, because then there is the danger that a National Council president will be elected from purely political motives. In this House we have the good democratic tradition that the three strongest parties after the national elections put the three presidents of this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] And these are – if we are so honest – in many cases not elected by a majority – and everyone needs a majority here – because of their political conviction. Sometimes one could even say: in respect of the democratic tradition in this House, even in spite of the political conviction with which in many cases one does not agree. [[Calls to the Greens.]] That is to say, one has chosen it out of respect for this democratic tradition. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the EIA will not continue to agree with this idea of a free choice of purely political motives, because Parliament must be and must be operational at all times, it must also be able to act in difficult situations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner]] And that's where the trias of the national council presidents belong. That is to say, we will continue to protect the high political authorities from arbitrary, even arbitrary majority formation in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to our proposal: Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a direct response to Graf's comments, absolutely not. [[Call: Not at all]] Among other things, I have said that clearly and clearly in the TV discussion on Sunday. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's just so easy!]] [[Call:This is the typical trickery of the ÖVP]] The occasion for discussion is Count, but one thing is clear: We have a discrepancy between the possibility of the Federal President's redemption and the non-existent redemption of national council presidents. In this case too, Korinek says again to our proposal: This basic idea is hot! – And I think we of the ÖVP will continue to pursue this misguided idea.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e17428	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e17449	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I feel it is really unbearable, as the Green Group in this House today is trying to take this House into a political hostage. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say this quite openly, because today we have tried to abuse the Rules of Procedure and have spoken of “black shirts”. I remember that during the last plenary session you were sitting here in black shirts and living in an incredible way the uniforming. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I experience developments that are currently going on from you, where hatred, greed, hate against dissidents occur, even with leaflets safari, speak of a hunt against dissidents, where there is no fear of contact, together with people who throw stones, eggs and other objects on dissidents. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: These are the typical FPÖ...!]] I say to you that I condemn it, because these are Nazi methods, and Nazi methods we condemn liberals – but you unfortunately apply them to God again and again. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] These are methods that are unbearable. I say this in this clarity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] Only because you do not agree with the outcome of a democratic election, because you obviously do not agree with the basic democratic consensus in this House, because you do not agree that there is the use that the three national council presidents are elected in the sense of strength, and you therefore, because you have been “reelected” from place three to place five in the last National Council elections, do not make a president because you have lost the right to the People’s Procuratorate in the future – that is the background – today you are giving such hate campaigns against better knowledge. It's about posts, functions. You want to occupy the role of a national council president, you want to continue to appoint a popular attorney. This is the political background, which has been admitted by Parliamentary Kogler in the TV programme “In the Centre”; he has admitted that it is precisely what you are talking about and nothing else. In this case, you are not at all uncomfortable that you are harming democracy. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] No, you deliberately harm democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] There you proceed with methods, as Alexander Solschenizyn, in his book “Archipel Gulag”, has very, very well put to the fore. Solschenizyn wrote that communists criminalize politically dissidents, but the real criminals continue to spare. And that is exactly the method that you unfortunately apply to God again and again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] One can dispute and discuss the opinion expressed in an article by Dr. Martin Graf, also in a heated and emotional way, and one can accept it or reject it, but it is a political opinion that one must discuss and discuss. You can be different. There is in all cases an agreement between Dr. Martin Graf and the President of the Israeli Cultural Community Muzicant that after his stay abroad there will be an appointment that a conversation will take place. And on a proposal from Mr. Muzicant, it was also agreed that Dr. Martin Graf would not give the public an opinion until this meeting, and Dr. Martin Graf. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] To what you said, Mr Klubobmann Cap, you have to state: We liberals have always held up the basic democratic consensus – and that is a very essential point, the basic principle of democracy. As a democrat one always rejects fascism, as a democrat one is an antifascist. But the antifascist is by no means a democrat, Mr. Klubobmann Cap. And that's a very important difference. We also live the basic democratic principle, because we reject fascism as much as any other totalitarian attitude, including communism, including Stalinism. Stalin was also an antifascist, but with God no democrat. I therefore ask you to note that the basic democratic principle in our Constitution is the decisive one and not the antifascist, because the democratic principle does not exclude other totalitarian regimes and ideologies. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The basic democratic principle, the basic principle of the constitution behind which we stand, includes that fascism – regardless of where it comes from, whether from the left or from the right – is to reject the fact that there must be no anti-democratic niches here, where one might be tolerated with the twinkling of the eye and perhaps blind to the left eye. [[Abg. Oillinger: “Three Beers ”!]] There is no eye to be blind, as the greens are permanently on their left eye. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As you have also deliberately addressed our campaign: Yes, you can also discuss and argue about these. One can discuss this very well and have different opinions on it, but it cannot be that you are speaking the word here of censorship. It will certainly not be wise to speak the word here of censorship, so to speak, to forbid dissidents to position the free opinion in the sense of a campaign. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] We have addressed problems with our campaigns. You may not take these problems seriously, but people take them very seriously. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am often with the citizens outside who take these very problems very seriously. And you and your party, the SPÖ, should perhaps think about why you have only achieved a negative 10 percent vote in the elections to the European Parliament. This is certainly also because you do not take many problems seriously. And when others address the problems that concern citizens, this is often exactly what we are experiencing today: There are criminalisation attempts. You turn problems under the table, talk a little nice, and then you try to criminalize those who show the problems. It's a debilitating democracy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would already expect that if one has to experience what has happened here today, namely that concepts are used here against a democratic party, by which one is insulted as a Nazi, and other incredible insults take place, all the clubmen come out here in this House and say that they condemn that this has not lost anything in this House. And I also say clearly and clearly: It cannot be assumed that in this House such blasphemies from the Greens simply take place without penalty. That's what I'm trying to keep from doing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have nothing to do with this thought, and please take note of that! Stop your undemocratic diffamation and manipulation machinery, which will give you the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e17599	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e17621	Mr President. High house! In Stakkato: The ÖVP application actually regulates something completely different. Yeah, it's just a coincidence that this is being brought in now! I mean, you should just confess color. That would be simpler: just say yes or no! [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] Yes to the proposals of the Greens – I say no to them. You can also say no; then I wouldn't start to work around with some pseudo-approach. Just have the courage to do so! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What are you afraid of? - I don't understand. Second note: It is true in this application that only the sentence in paragraph 2 is the statement of reasons in which it states: “A President of the National Council has a special responsibility as one of the highest representatives of the Republic.” – This is the only sentence I would sign. That's right, yes, I apologized. I also told Martin Graf I apologized. He's making the conversation with Dr. Muzicant himself now. I wouldn't have done that, I'd have publicly apologized. I don't need to talk to him. This is also a special form, a special treatment, I do not see it. Mr. Dr. Muzicant is a citizen like everyone else. He does not meet Martin Graf personally, he meets the Third President just because he is mentioned in an article. I don't see that either. I would have apologized, and that would have done the case for me. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: A one-sided excuse!]] I'm just saying how I did it. Mr Strache, it is permitted to see it differently. [[Abg. Strache: I'm saying it!]] I would've done it differently. But I can't see why Mr. Dr. Muzicant needs to be given special treatment now. I don't see that either. [[Abg. Strache: Because you're looking for the dialogue?]] Yeah, that's all right. I would have apologized, and that would have done the case. Next Note: You can talk about everything within the framework of a democratic package, which institutions are to be called up in the Republic with a contrarius actus, but not as you do. That's what I'm doing with the next comment: It concerns the unbearable equation between every civility and any corporation and in the future also every CV connection and every MKV connection – the blacks do not know that they will be equated there in the future – with right-wing extremism. [[Call to the Greens: Who says that?]] But, of course, you do it on every occasion! Look Once you have the speeches of Mr Oellinger, you see how wrong they are, and that is still the noblest thing I think about it. [[Call the Greens:Cite precisely!]] They're not accurate at all, it's simple and just wrong. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Well, Mr Cap, to the hypocrisy number you delivered again today! It is true that after 1933 many social democrats were imprisoned and held in camps. It is true that, after 1938, many Austrians, including Social Democrats, came to camp and were killed; by the way, priests, however, talk about this as well as never. But it is as true that after 1945 the Social Democracy as no other party in this House – and I emphasize, really no other party! – has made sure that a bunch of Nazis have been high-rankingly denazated! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr. Cap does not know that!]] You know that very well! This is not done with this booklet; it deals with the special problem of the responsibility of the BSA. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Blind on the left eye!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: No!]] But, of course, I looked at it. [[Abg. Dr. Cap:... two books!]] In this one booklet with which you go home, it is not explained how it was possible that high-ranking Hitler boys who were still proud that they were high-ranking Hitler boys could play state captain and state captain deputy! It is not explained how a parliamentarian who had previously been a member of the Waffen-SS was able to sit here for 28 years in the ranks of the Social Democracy, who as a former National Socialist himself provided for it when he became head of the Entnazifications Office over a Social Democratic mayor that a bunch of former National Socialists in the nationalized industry had found shelter! In addition, there is no other party in this House, Mr Cap, who has gone election fights with a clearer slogan, which has never been exceeded by FPÖ itself. I can remind you: “Whoever was for Adolf has chosen Adolf this year too.” – Adolf Schärf, Social Democratic, no Freeman, no Black, no BZÖler! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Listen, hear!]] And the murderer Primarius Gross has been protected by you – and by no one else! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Twice, a Minister of Justice of the Social-Al-Democrats has made sure that the proceedings against a murderer have been beat down. Until the end, he was not even recognized of his awards. He was one of the highest leaders of this republic, and he was not recognized! And then you come out and you're hypothetical the number you've given the best? – Not really credible! Last comment: If you're quoting me, colleague Cap, please. I said – it may have been unfortunately formulated – that we went from tyranny to tyranny in 1945 in Austria. Oh, yes! Then I'll invite you: Go through the Lower Austrian villages with me, and I'll show you today old women who have been raped as girls in a row and survived only by chance! [[Call the ÖVP: So it is!]] I will show you villages in Burgenland and in Lower Austria where people have been “freed” from everything they had, where they even shot the brother of the former SPÖ Minister of the Interior Oskar Helmer in the back, because he has put himself on protection against women – a heroic act for which he was never awarded, unlike Mr. Primarius Gross. That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen. If you prepare all this, we can talk about everything. But this hypocrisy number, Mr Cap, please don't deliver in this house any more!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e17832	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e17854	Ladies and gentlemen! You can learn from history, you can develop further. But one can also stay in history and make one another's pretenses, with which one certainly does not come to a green branch. Dear Josef Cap, your speech was a model example of how to take a step back. In my opinion, the step back is that the SPÖ has already been further on this issue. Today, we are no longer discussing whether Mr Graf's statement was inappropriate to Mr Muzicant and should follow her apologies. Today we are discussing the fact that the statement that Martin Graf has made to Muzicant was a link in a chain of statements and attitudes that have not yet reached its end with the statement about Musicant, but that it is always going on: whether it concerns the person of Mr Graf, his environment or the attitude and positions of the FPÖ as a whole. This is the point, dear Josef Cap, and not: Please apologise, Mr Graf, perhaps we could get the story out of the way! [[Abg. Strache: The political judge, almost as in Iran: Ayatollah Oillinger!]] Mr. Kopf has been living up to this all the time. He goes out again and says: The last and the last time I asked you to apologize, and actually that is unbearable, please apologize! - He's not doing it! I say to you, Mr Kopf, that it would also be an excuse to be too brief on this question. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Think about how musician came to his statements! He has previously tried to argue rationally, which disturbs him at the FPÖ, which constitutes anti-Semitism in certain positions of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Kickl: Oh, that's it?]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Only then, when he did not receive an answer, neither from the ÖVP nor from the SPÖ, did he read to the comments about which one can discuss in detail about the sound, but I say: I understand it if Mr Muzicant, who does not find an answer from the political dignitaries in this Republic, is not only unheard of, but also shows emotion. Yeah, that's what it's supposed to be! This has nothing to do with hate, dear Josef Cap. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am now reading a letter from the “profile” written by a Mr Franz Strohmeier: With what right do the national councillors of the government parties blaze our children at lectures and discussion sessions in schools with heroic words on the topics of antifascism, civil courage, “become full of the beginnings” and so on, if they seem to be too cowardly or, perhaps, characterly indisposed under the coat of a secret election cell, even in the protection of an election cell, even under the protection of a secret choice, not to elect a Mr. Graf, and thus their greatly superior principles on the very worst occasion at the post and the equinox of the altar in the Constitution on which they were swornd, with no word mentioned right of habit of a party, garnished with a bar of no criticism whatsoever, critically followed club pressure. - Quote. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I say that you can have different opinions about this letter of readers. But, in fact, this House, this Parliament, in the debates of recent months, apart from individual Members, has not at all given any sign of how it intends to deal with such attitudes as it represents Mr Graf as a person. If a tram maker in Vienna makes a false sign, he is threatened with a very brutal means of dismissal. If a student or a student is on a class trip to Auschwitz there are statements about which one can at least discuss and which are probably also indisputable, there are massive consequences. However, if the Third President of the National Council for months, through his staff, through his personal attitudes, makes visible through more and more ongoing activities, that the basic antifascist consensus or democracy counts for him only as long as it protects his right and his attitudes, otherwise not... [[Abg. Strache: But that would be the case with you! There you confuse your attitude with another!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This also applies to you!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] By the way, Mr Graf likes to keep the border crossing. He's a borderliner. All his statements are always aimed at crossing borders, to say then I don't know what you are talking about, I wasn't there; I wasn't at the "Olympia" Burschenship, when the Nazis were there and gave their hands, I also want to say to Mr Ploner – who is still an employee of Mr. Count and who has just performed with the Smiley mask on the weekend – nothing but: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But no, I'm fighting for her anyway!]] These are precepts without substance! This is the statement that comes from you when an employee appears in neo-Nazi travels and – you can't say otherwise – scans Neonazi sayings. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I said more!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] If an employee of yours does such a thing, Mr. Graf knows nothing, then Mr. Graf can't help himself except to say: I haven't been there, and by the way, I'm not saying anything! This is the problem the Republic has with you. [[Abg. Strache: That you're accusing people as Neonazi and staying unlit because you have immunity, that's the scandal!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This is the problem when we discuss why, in recent weeks and months, incidents in schools and public life have increased. Then each expert will give you an answer: As long as the Republic does not place its signs from above, all the efforts you make together as government parties to anchor political education in schools and to anchor them better will bear no or few fruits. You are required by the ÖVP! Make Finally, you have the right to vote on this request, Mr Kopf. Make freedom of expression in your party, also on this question! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And don't come to us with the excuses that the proposal that the Greens had would follow in 1933 and the historical experiences of that time. I say one to you, Mr Kopf: That's impossible, and you know it. Even if three presidents were to fail, we still have the elders who would make the presidency. 1933 is not repeatable in the form. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I also say something else to you: They say that this would be political occasion legislation. In several federal states in Austria, there is the possibility of a simple majority of the presidents of state days. Has this led to any country day that a president would ever have been arbitrarily dismissed? – In many European countries, there is the possibility to elect Presidents of the National Council or Parliament. I know that there is no such possibility only in the Federal Republic of Germany, as in Austria. But one thing you should also know – and you also know, Mr. Kopf: In the Federal Republic of Germany, a Martin Graf would never have become the President of Parliament! He would never have managed to be elected President of Parliament. This was only possible here in Austria because the ÖVP agreed to it quite closed. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So you also have to come to your door as regards Martin Graf and the prospects of political life in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e18036	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e18057	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Konrad Paul Liessmann wrote already in 1992 about “the good people of Austria”. You should know it. He said at the time: The good man can be characterized as the progressive consciousness after the loss of his utopia. He doesn't have a goal anymore, so he has a fundamental legitimization crisis. There is only one thing that helps: the ghost of fascism, because the sincere antifascism is all that the left remains. Then Liessmann goes on to say: The more fascists there are, the better; so he acquires his authority of existence. He picks him up, builds up politicians to neo-fascists. He thus saves himself the employment of those problems that allow real or supposed neonazism first. - Quote. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Right there you are at home with your constant death-beat argument “Nazi”! I too, according to the president of the Cultusgemeinschaft, am a “Kellernazi”; well, should be so, then there are a lot of people. I'm a Democrat. If everyone is Nazi is: Where does this expression come from? What do you want to do with it? Do you want to water the term “Nazi ”? Do you want to treat him inflationaryly? [[Abg. Oils: Who says that?]] Do you perhaps want to criticize what the president of the cult community has said, or do you like it? – In any case, it waters down this term, among other things, and you do. [[Abg. Street: The victims are insulting and deceiving!]] They use it inflationaryly. What do you want to do with it? Do you want it impoverished? Do you want to make fun of the victims of National Socialism? What do you want? Is that what you're doing? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Who Nazi is, of course, you determine that if it's right, isn't it, you determine that. They also determine who may be criticized in this Republic and what may be said. Maybe you'll give out a list of the words we're allowed to use, or, I don't know, the hand movements you need to make. Please give it out so that you know what you can do in this Republic! Because the main problem you have is really a totalitarian attitude. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: A little less regret might also be good!]] That's the problem! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you... [[Abg. Oellinger:... from where the term ‘Kellernazis’ came from for the FPÖ!]] [[Calls at the FPÖ.]] It's totally meaty for me who he's from. But if you put the word “Nazi” in your mouth and so call democrats, what do you do with it? [[Calls to the Greens.]] – You want to distance yourself, I am glad. Please take the following minutes to register: Oillinger is distanced from it, distanced from the president of the Cultusgemeinde. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Oils.]] You just said, “I don’t, ” you just said. But what is the essence of this accusation of “Nazi ”? What is it? The totalitarian attitude, the use of force... Yes, exactly: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Violation against dissidents, the claim to have the only true opinion, and to ban others from taking the view. That is it; and if the definition of “Nazi” is, then it is you here in this House, and nobody else! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – Probably want You are now reporting to the Rules of Procedure that I am getting a call for an order. But if it's not, you can say it. [[Abg. May. Rudas: You know the responsibility...!]] The event law is at all the next boxes of the Pandora, which is opened. I just want to make one point. If it is possible to elect the President-in-Office of the Council, then it is likely that the President-in-Office of the Committee will have to be able to vote. There, I think, Greens are the most likely to have the problem that is illegal, but because committee presidents cannot be elected, they can remain in their position. [[Abg. Stache: Like Mr. Peter Pilz!]] I would strongly advise you: Don't open the Pandora's books, and don't start making political decisions where there should be rule of law! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Democracy is the one thing, but the rule of law is the other, otherwise we would have the dictatorship of 51 percent. But we have thanks to God for the rule of law that can be relied upon. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] If one begins to undermine the rule of law in such a way and to misuse the rule of law politically in such a way, then one is actually harming that state. You then have to attach that to the flag, you can be really proud of it! The way in which the elections continue and how the population is judged to behave in this way has already shown itself.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e18220	Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek spoke about business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e18247	Mr President. You have just heard the speech by yourself, I assume. How does a political group in this House come to be insulted as Nazis? [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] It is your responsibility to suspect such words, and I demand that the consequences be met. Where are we going?- Oh, my God! I mean, it's a border hurt sometime. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Exactly! Where are we going?]] You could also give your office a certain emphasis and at least here one, if not two calls for orders, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e18293	I asked colleagues from the Stenographical Protocol to send me the corresponding extract, because the interlocutory calls did not make the comments clear. The next speech is from Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e18322	Mr President. High house! We want to discuss this calmly and objectively, ladies and gentlemen. What Mr Stefan has just said is that his regret about the rule of law, which is in danger, goes completely beyond that. We do not at all take Mr. Graf's right to sit in here. He's democratically elected, it's out of question! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Thank you!]] [[Abg. Blow: Love of you!]] It is quite simple and simply about whether Dr. Graf can be representative of this House or not. [[Abg. Strache: He's an elected representative!]] And he cannot do that because of the statements he has made, because of his past, because of his environment, he is simply for this high position and simply not suitable, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Street: Ahmadinejad Walser!]] If the ÖVP thinks it's unacceptable statements, that's right. For years, there have been FPÖs for months, there are unacceptable statements from Mr Graf. But it is unacceptable to choose such a man in such a function. This responsibility you have and this responsibility has a large part of you as well. [[the speaker turns toward ÖVP]] [[the speaker turns towards SPÖ]] That, please, should you take note, and now you should finally speak plain text, since you should finally do what is justifiable to this House, namely to allow it to come out of this office for the election of Martin Graf. Occasional legislation – every law has occasions, that is perfectly clear. What you're saying is a special class fog grenade. They're trying to distract you from the problem. In fact, you want to keep a coalition partner warm, and I also have a little suspicion of you, a coalition partner who will keep you in Vorarlberg in the comfortable coalition bed and which you want to be prepared for Austria, for all cases. [[the speaker turns towards SPÖ]] You never know how the upcoming elections will go. What else does someone have to do to be elected from this office, from your point of view? Does it really have to be a breach of the constitution? That's almost absurd. He has been elected politically, it is a political decision – and it is not a legal decision that we have to make here. We have the political decision to make whether we can accept Martin Graf or not. In the Kampl case, it came to an insight. That's where this House has, even its own party has found: Yes, this man is unbearable, and the High House has jointly determined that this can't be so. There have also been statements from the BZÖ. [[Abg. Bucher: Kampl left his office alone!]] Also a reference to the story. You're completely wrong here. In 1933, the three presidents joined forces. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Not together, but together!]] That's not the question! This is the election of a third President of the National Council. The reason was, by the way, a mistake in the vote, just as Mr Vilimsky did before us at the last sitting. This is because the cards have been broken down and two equal votes have been taken. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Please go, that's ridiculous!]] It was a mistake back then. At that time, the President made the right decision and declared the votes invalid. He has known the Rules of Procedure in contrast to President Graf and has made the right decision. It was the Christian Social Party that then prevented the High House from coming together with police force. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: And the German national president wanted to hold the meeting at that time!]] This is not what is absolutely up to, but it is a clear political will-consultation of this House. We should finally decide on this. Ludwig Adamovich said that he would not see this, because there is no legislative act or constitutional change without reason. – I mean, clearer and clearer, you can't express it. Would you like to say that Mr. Graf did not give an occasion?- Oh, my God! I think there are occasions weekly and again and again the same words that we hear there: This is intolerable, and we ask for an excuse. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I didn't call to strike!]] On the other hand, you say for yourself, it's indebted. So what is it now? Martin Graf is not a representative of this House, Martin Graf is a third president elected! Create the opportunity. You have the responsibility now, it's the ÖVP! We cannot release you from this responsibility, and from this responsibility you will not release the Austrians. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Deputies Grossruck and Dr. Stummvoll.]] [[Abg. Street: The Greens are preparing their next election defeat!]] You have done massive damage to this House, by the way you have chosen Martin Graf, by the inconsistency you have shown against the arguments we have presented to you. Martin Graf deals with right-wing extremists, invites people to or belongs to a burgery where people are invited to sing: With six million Jews, the fun starts first! [[Abg. Strache: This untruth is told again!]] Such people have chosen you, and parts of you have also chosen them. [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards SPÖ]] Get this drift to an end! Choose Martin Graf! Create the opportunity! It's up to you! Otherwise, you – and you don't have to be a prophet – will be responsible for the damage to Parliament's reputation week after week, month after month. Karl Ollinger has already pointed out: Trust You're going to a school? Do you trust yourself to go to a school to make it clear to the citizens or students that it needs to be civilized? Trust yourself there to say: Yes, we must support the rights, we must stand up for the basic antifascist consensus!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Street: The basic democratic consensus!]] And at the same time, you protect someone who rejects this basic antifascist consensus. [[Abg. Strache: Obviously you feel like Stalinist!]] Please, as a “Stalinist”, I do not have to be described by Mr Strache. [[the speaker turns towards the President-in-Office of the Council Neugebauer]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Strache has in his own brown sauce, I think to stir enough and should think about who he calls what. I suppose that's going to call for an order. [[Abg. Strache: It was not a statement, it was a question!]] Mr Stadler, it is a special-class distraction maneuver to refer to the rapes by Soviet soldiers in 1945. They were the ones who spoke of an “prejudicial liberation ” in Austria. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There was murder and death!]] Austria has been liberated! Now, Mr Strache, after the European elections, you are obviously leaving the democratic coat. Now, obviously, a little more radical tones are coming again. This is what you're talking about: Has Austria been liberated – or has it not been liberated? Of course, there have been crimes, of course, what happened back then is unforgivable, but do not constantly distract. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Unlike you, I have no Nazi in my family!]] The key issue we are discussing today is Martin Graf. That's what you have to decide. Again, the reference to the ÖVP: It is in your hand to create the opportunity to do so! Eliminate this abuse our house has to suffer this week after week! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e18629	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e18650	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! So whenever the colleague, who has appeared without a T-shirt today, is, on the other hand, without a T-shirt – because he is likely to be stupid himself when he celebrates it in permanence – and some other colleagues of the Green Group speak here and make their comments as far as Austrian history is concerned – always only a certain period of time – then I will not be completely rid of the feeling that it is a kind of psychotherapy before the public. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you think of us here in this way has long exceeded the measure of tolerance. You like to talk about boundaries and things that you want to go into the right light, but you will not all seriously believe that you are the instance that sets these limits and that brings this light to light somewhere. You're the last instance! And I am incredibly glad that the voters at the last National Council election have proved such a good feeling that they have demolished you where you belong, namely to the last place here in this House. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] Actually, ladies and gentlemen, I am an optimist. I was almost trying to believe in this EU election for a second that you and your group's left wing, Mr. Cap – Mrs. Rudas and other ladies and gentlemen, who have nothing else to do with the past professionally, and make it extremely easy for them to do so – perhaps there is a running process: Maybe you're starting to think, maybe someday the insight will take place if you've already hit the electorate so neatly? That would have been a possibility. But Your behavior today and here – and I am sure that it will continue to be so in the future – shows that you have not understood the lesson of the Sovereign. Keep going, and he'll put you together! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And now they shoot out of the ground like the swams, one after the other: bizarre self-accompanier – that's what you really have to call – with these T-shirts – I don't know what he actually wants to express – self-proclaimed saviors of a supposedly democratically threatened democratic order, yes, self-insectors and would-be resistance fighters. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Do you know what you're doing with what you're doing here? – This is a blow to the face for all those who at the time stood their husband and wife in the really hard time and acted in resistance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead, you focus on standing out here, opening your mouth against a democratically legitimized party and untamed personalities and then perhaps wanting to stick to the Stalin order or anything. That seems to be the opposite of the beatification with the greens. Well, what award will Mr. Ollinger receive for his antifascist resistance struggle? How, then, will he be shown the corresponding virtue in the green rows? There must be something if he makes himself that way in this antifascist defense fight. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger is, as it were, a special “carrier” in this area: He is a link-connecter, over from the revolutionary Marxists to the socialist youth – and it is basically not paying off at all to separate these different associations, because they do not differ in content at all. Today, with your approach in front of this microphone, you have shown that you are basically pursuing an ideologically motivated drive. If it fits you, then you sit down unscrupulously over everything that is inside here because you are acting under the cover of a sham morale. If you do anything, everything is all right if another does it, then the fascist or neofascist appeal is. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They've been the ones who've been running hetcers for weeks and months. To say it briefly: You do nothing but run a program under the cover of a pseudo-moral and a pseudo-democracy, in which clearly the only ideological purpose you pursue is to somehow restrict the estrangement movement of the electorate of you – something that you make more and more of choice – and for this purpose you are buying all the means. You can't save this accusation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, your ideological displeasure, let's call it that – I don't want to say now, your ideological waste – the brand Frankfurter Schule, the fact that the border of Adorno, Horkheimer and so on defi-nerates, which means being good in this republic, which means being democratic, this plate edge keeps you high. This is your world view, from which you obviously cannot move out, and this is the only background of this campaigning that you are running against the person Martin Graf and subsequently against other people. That's what we've seen today. Ewald Stadler is the next – and sometime ÖVP representatives will be in line. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I was already on it! You even demonstrated before the People's Procuratorate!]] You will continue this fight, but not because you believe in anything, but because you do nothing else than act purely party-politically motivated. That's hypocrisy to the square, and you can't save this accusation at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To put yourself here with moral habit and to believe that at first one must only throw a ghost on the wall, the ghost of fascism goes around in Austria... – Yes, perhaps in your head, but certainly not in reality out there. And that's not how people feel, and that's why you're going to suffer shipwreck with this method. I would also like to say one thing, because the SPÖ is now very entering next door: There have already been correct words. Mr. Cap was long enough in the Renner Institute, since he had enough time to work things out as far as his own party history is concerned. Not too much happened. A book has been written, we have heard. Well, that's probably somewhere around now, but the Julius Tandler medal is still giving you. And once you have looked at what this Julius tandler has given of himself, I wonder how you come to the idea every year, that this tandler medal is then also for merits to give humanity. That's basically obscene. That's where you need a long time from the SPÖ! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you could have already renamed some place in Vienna if it would be so serious to you with what you give of yourself here in the "Causa Graf". But I think that's the point it's not about. That is why it is also a crucial point for me to address Mrs Prammer, who is now sitting in the back and not in the front and not in the back, but also in the back. This is also an important point. I listened very closely to your speech, which you held on the occasion of the commemorative day against violence and racism. You said, Madam President Prammer, a very interesting sentence in which I wonder how it would be interpreted if a liberal said it. “We need a broad moral consensus that goes far beyond the legally indictable.” I'm telling you, if Martin Graf had said this, he wouldn't have even finished the sentence and the first would have cried out: The FPÖ comes through the back door with the “healthy feeling of people! ” - That's exactly the point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What kind of morale do you mean? And now I'm asking the SPÖ: What kind of morale do you mean? That would be interesting to know if you at the same time reject from your ideological background something like a truth that exists for yourself. What kind of morale is that supposed to be? There can be no such thing as that. What kind of morale is this supposed to be if everything is basically relative and the political means of fighting of the left in nothing other than the breaking up of Tabus? One after another must be removed – but then you talk about morality. What is supposed to be a moral, which ultimately must also be an absolute instance, which basically must also be overstated by social developments, so that it can claim this validity at all? What's that supposed to mean? It would be interesting to know about you once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I suspect that with what is meant by morality such a kind of container is being constructed, and in these containers ideological shifts of the left come in – and that is then the morality that applies to all of us. - I'm just telling you: You can't do it that easy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one more word: What has been said here today, where we experience a part of a long staging, is not an isolated phenomenon, because now an expression has fallen towards Ariel Musicant – which is not particularly narrow when distributing. There, too, the ÖVP has already experienced their experiences with comparisons about which one can only wonder and where I wonder that one has not heard any words of removal or condemnation at all. But, please, what is probably in order on the one hand, on the other hand, is completely “unobservable. ” So it's not, and this story doesn't start with today, but it's part of a long escalation strategy that you staged for a long time, in which first of all employees are stifled and facts are twisted, where you're not afraid of being able to catch Martin Graf, so to speak, attacking his environment, rubbing on employees who are basically unable to resist and who are the weakest link in the chain – yes, yes – and then holding themselves in their own club people like your Lord Lukas Wurz, the social representative of the Greens who runs around with a body with the inscription: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] Kill the Nazis! Mr Ollinger, you would have enough to do if you were really serious, but it's just that you don't seriously mean it – and that's the problem of your entire argumentation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has been called for here today, and if you take it honestly, then what is required of the Greens and where parts of the SPÖ will be certain to do nothing about the protection of democracy, democratic order or anything else, it is about the possibility of setting up a political tribunal here. Mr Cap, I'm telling you: Never take the term “protection of minority rights” into your mouth here in the house, because what you are doing here is calculated and only designed to stop a third president, whom you do not place – and the Greens obviously no longer assume that they will achieve one at any time – and therefore basically to provide a bear service to this minority protection. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the first reading today. I assume that this issue will continue to follow us. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: “Imitate”?]] Perhaps sometime the insight will also be in the Green Resurrection Club. It may still be that, if the debate goes on longer, some voter's voter's vote will still give the appropriate support.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e18838	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e18861	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Here I say my personal opinion: These debates, which have been taking place for weeks now, are unbearable, really unbearable! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] However, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, also what you are doing. I'll tell you: Both groups, which are now making these debates, do not make this inadvertent. One would like to distract here because one obviously no longer has any other issues when it comes to really working for the population. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ and the Greens.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, see your right to exist only more in that you are making policy against a party and now against a President. Is the meaning of your work, your role here as elected Members?- Oh, my God! Mr Walser said that he supported it for political reasons and called for the third President's election. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, what is this democratic concept? [[Calls to the Greens.]] For political reasons, you want to convene a representative, a president or otherwise a staff member. Who then decides whether this is an acceptable political means or not?- Oh, my God! In a democracy there are elected representatives, elected by the Sovereign – and the Sovereign is the people! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then there is a legal order, Mr Walser, and if someone violates this rule of law, then there are sanctions. But there are no political reasons in democracy that can lead to the election of a elected representative. Write it Once you're behind your political concept of democracy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] And why, Mr Walser, is it so difficult for you to discuss the crimes after 1945 when we talk about the past? Why is it so difficult – not, Mr Oillinger – to condemn violence as a means of politics, no matter who it is from? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] [[Abg. May. Korun: You're distracting a little!]] These casual “walks” of some left-wing organizations also know me, ladies and gentlemen. I too have been influenced at political events where left followers, including those of your youth organization, have agitated with stones and chains against pensioners! This too is anti-democratic, even this is not an opposition to violence in politics! [[In the case of BZÖ and FPÖ, as well as of the Abg. Hörl.]] You have to consider whether this is a balanced relationship. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Of course, this discussion is also wanted by the FPÖ – because they like to provoke and just as you believe that you are there with the martyr image and with questions like: Violence – yes or no?, and: Who is against whom?, can try to cover empty contents. That's the problem! I'll tell you both: They misuse an important point of our history, and they misuse the memory of the victims of violence and fascism in Austria! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] You are abusing this story for your party policy, both of you, ladies and gentlemen. And that's the bad thing about these discussions! Therefore: Stop with these points at last! Mr Stefan – even though [[Abg. May. Stefan talks to Abg. Grains]] You have risen up now – this is a problem that many, including us, have with you: Of course, FPÖ is not a National Socialist Party – this is also a reproach of hundreds of thousands of voters, that is not all right – but: You, too, know that you can do quite differently against currents in your environment, which go in this direction. There are many ‘ coincidences ’: ‘Three "Bier" is a coincidence, birthday celebrations on 20th. April in some youth cellars – all chance, raised hands at FPÖ events – all chance. It may be, but a little bit of chance. [[Abg. Strache: Are you talking about Haider events now? They're just these evasions, they're absurd!]] Mr Stefan, if you do not then – no, we have done something about it, you know it! [[Abg. Strache: Are you talking about Haider events now, or what?]] At the time, we have not allowed any tendencies that really go into the far right camp to be supported! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Stefan, we have not made any jokes or outrages either. And, Mr Stefan, if you have no other definition of National Socialism, I am sorry, too, because of course there are regimes of violence everywhere. Attack wars have been waged. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Do you define “War of Attack”?]] There's torture, murder, everything. But there's a little definition feature that I might give you: At least according to my historical knowledge, there has never been an ideology in the history of humanity where millions of murders have been founded – Mr. Strache, do not interrupt me! – by saying that this would be justified because it would not be human beings, where millions of people agreed to human beings and who ordered them to one level among the animals, so somewhere in the area of bacteria and viruses that can be eradicated. [[Abg. Strache: Two ideologies have existed: National Socialism and Communism!]] Mr Stefan, that is perhaps what makes National Socialism unique with its criminal ideology in history; this should also be said when comparing it with other ideologies! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] I am really opposed to the fact that this really delicate question is being dealt with today by party politics. This has been done by the Social Democrats over and over again – I remember various presidential elections and your campaign in 2000 – regardless of what was done to the reputation of Austria. That's what you're doing now: They're playing with all these things and yelling at them. You're insulting the youth. Suddenly, articles that act that young people are all right-wing, which problems arise, that people reject democracy and suddenly want a leader again. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not all right! This is a reproach for the people here in Austria – and that of representatives of the people! You should really think about what we're for. We should open up history accordingly, not a question; we should learn from the past; and there must be an antifascist basic consensus, of course, here in Austria! [[Abg. Street: A basic democratic consensus!]] However, there must also be a fundamental consensus that violence as a means of democracy or politics is not acceptable, that electorates can naturally be accepted in a democracy and that political means of dealing with Members are not acceptable. But: We must avoid mixing this memory and learning from history with party politics – for that is really abuse! Everyone here who has been for hours, for days, for weeks, is thinking about this debate, whether the population does not demand anything else from us at this time. One should not be surprised if the population turns away from politics and goes less and less to the urns. This is a democratic problem, because people demand something else from us! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Abg. Strache: Do not make the voters responsible if you only get 4.7 percent!]] People do not demand that we carry out our party-political sham hats here, but they ask for answers to the questions of the present and the future, Mr. Strache. And that is something that is going on to you too, namely, to consider, in addition to issues such as foreigners and security, what people need in the future to think about the question of jobs and the question of how young people get training, how our environment looks like with energy policy, how it looks like with security policy! [[OBJECTIVES]] These are questions that we should deal with! However, I must say, Mr Commissioner, that you cannot even vote. I hope your left Toe's gonna be better now. But these are the points we need to deal with. And when everyone writes behind the ears, we will also have more restraint in the population. Such debates, as they are held here by the left and the right, dispel people and then lead again to the need for us to talk about democracy indifference!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e19147	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e19168	I'm just for that we're about to discuss this. This is probably only one intervening debate. [[Abg. Grosz: At the SPÖ we need centuries!]] – No, no, I have followed this speech by Mr Scheibner very closely, and there were many points where I voted in favour. She was just a little contradictory. Then: If, on the one hand, he speaks of party political abuse of National Socialism as the subject of a dispute, I agree with him. That would be an injunction. We have also always found critical words about this Eichmann comparison and about this Goebbels comparison, because this is an incorruption! Both were mass murderers, and the uniqueness of the crime of the National Socialist ideology cannot be used to lead cheap party political conflicts here! Only the questions ask themselves: Where's the abuse? And: Where can one really have the right to speak when it is addressed? This is the moment we have to discuss. I think you can't make yourself there and now generally call it abuse. Therefore, one should not easily deal with allegations such as: Nazi party, you're a Nazi, and so on. National Socialism means gas chambers; these are millions of industrially killed people of all kinds of ethnicity, religions, and political confessions; that is a racist attack with countless millions of dead; that is a whole, unique, racist, repulsive, repulsive ideology. It is therefore necessary to deal with this problem very responsibly. The more often one uses the term, the more it becomes a language use, is impoverished, is simply somewhere, then one no longer recognizes the speciality of this ideology and this crime. I therefore think that it is precisely because of responsibility towards younger people that we have to deal with it carefully. But I come to a second point. It is always spoken of as a electorate. The electorate is that 54 or 56 percent did not vote! In absolute numbers, almost only losers sit here, that is the decisive. [[Abg. Strache: We have also won in absolute numbers!]] And the investigation in the book confirms it: There is a growing distrust of the institutions of democracy in Austria. No matter what historical root each of us here defines – this must concern each one of us, who is truly committed to democratic basic consensus and parliamentary democracy! If a mood is on the rise where people say that I am a leader and a leader company rather than parliamentary elections, than constitutions and a parliamentary system, then you have to oppose it! Then you have to ask yourself the question of how this longing for a leader arises. And we can discuss this more often, because I think it is very crucial that we work this out. I'll come to the next point. Everyone – of course we too – has condemned the crimes that occurred here in the country after 1945! But one thing I have to say: We also need to see the sequence. The racist war of attack, which killed Europe in 1938, 1939, 1940, 1941, was, please, triggered by the Hitler regime, by the National Socialism. This must be seen in this sequence, with the countless crimes that have taken place there in the occupied territories, in Poland, in Ukraine, in Russia, in the Balkans, wherever they may be. And that's to say! [[Abg. Strache: That does not justify any rape! Crime remains crime!]] Also the term Holocaust is finally pronounced, the targeted, planned destruction of millions of Jews – no, that must, I believe, be said once in all clarity! [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] That is why we are so sensitive if it is said that a dictatorship would have been replaced by another dictatorship, or if it was spoken of the “adequate liberation of Austria”. Although it is argued that we were only able to bear responsibility with the State Treaty from 1955 onwards – that is equality, that is not right in the causality and in the historical sequence! [[Abg. Strache: Figl has already said: Austria is free!]] I therefore call on you to use the terms correctly, and point out that employment policy in the “Third Reich” was nothing but the preparation of this racist war of attack – with countless forced workers and the dead! That, I think, is crucial, and I think you have to find clear words. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What morality is, Mr. Kickl? I can tell you that by example. Because you went to the President-in-Office of the Council: Morally, when you publish the two books on the revision of our social-democratic history, too. And we are the only ones here, the two books – BSA, Caspar One; Alfred Gusenbauer: Brown spots – have been brought out! Morally, if you don't cut this off from the speaker's mouth, you're saying that we've worked it up. Read these two books! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: Julius-Tandler-Medal!]] We don't have the claim to be flawless. We can read the minutes of the first Federal Government after 1945 into the subject of the anti-Semitic statements that have been made. We can all work this together. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] I think that is good for us and that it would be good if it were to happen here in this framework – yes, I say! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Start one!]] Now I come to the very last point. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Start one!]] – letter You as BZÖ once a book, that's once at the time, because we can work up a lot! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] And, Mr Stadler, you've been there all over the place, and I don't even know what kind of mind you still belong to. Go back to the Pius brothers! That's just ridiculous! - Now I have to get angry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I come to the last, last point: We've accepted the use. We were there and we said: The voters decide who is the first, second and third presidents. No one can blame us otherwise, Mr Kickl, we have accepted this. We have said that is so, the proposal has come, and yes, we have accepted these uses. Mr Graf has a responsibility which he does not assume. I think this is quite reckless of the 109 Members whom you have elected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] – You have not taken responsibility as you have behaved here in the function of the Third President! Here you are not football president or anything else, but the Third President of the Austrian National Council and therefore have special responsibility! Therefore, you should also be assessed according to specific criteria if you make statements or signal a certain attitude. That is why I believe that if you choose a president here, you should choose him here as well. That is why we stick to our proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e19417	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e19438	Mr Cap, I thank you for the offer. I hope it wasn't just out of the emotion right now. In fact, we are preparing a corresponding revision – even after 1945! I'll tell you: From the point of view of the victims, it makes no difference whether one is raped and killed by Red Armists or by National Socialists! - Or by ordinary criminals. [[Abg. Krainer: Or of ordinary criminals!]] – But again: This is a political system behind it! This is an insurrection: to equate ordinary crime with nationalism! This is an insolence, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Ui, scandal!]] This has now come out of the red rows. You see, my dear colleague Cap, that you still have a lot of work to do in your own ranks, you don't need to give us pedagogical support! - But let's stay serious. I would ask you to take this offer seriously. Let us also talk about which currents and which politicians have prepared the spiritual soil here in the years before 1938 and before 1933. The ÖVP also has its share to play. It still awards a prize named after Leopold Kunschak. If we have already criticized teeth – rightly, Mr Kickl – I would also like to mention the following: Leopold Kunschak gave speeches in this house, a few more rooms, which were merely so indulging in anti-Semitism. All this was a preparation of a soil that then led to the fact that people were no longer regarded as humans, but even worse than animals. That's why I say – and that's my appeal now: If we want to make a profit from this debate – for it has so far been fruitless, because it goes beyond the problems of people outside at all! The political class here again shows that it debates completely removed things that no human can understand outside. At a time when people don't have a job anymore, they have to fear that they can't pay their rent anymore, we'll discuss whether the greens or the liberals are the more radical. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] I looked at these two books. I do not make them down, but it is a bit alibrative; it is also alibrative, about like the request of the ÖVP. It's worthy of recognition, but it's not enough. Let's work things up serially, because around the time after 1945 and about the responsibility before 1933 and before 1938, we never really cared about the ideological preparation of the soil! If we want to do this, I'll tell you: We're happy to be ready for that! All the political groups in this House – that would be a fundamental consensus. I think that we can all meet – if we approach each other without letup, and from the point of view of the victims, many thousands of Austrians and Zig thousands of Austrians, the crimes that occurred in the 20th century. Century has happened in our country, all worked up once and also put the causality in the right order! I have nothing against it at all. By the way, I have never denied it – nor in the speech – and insist on it. I'm just saying that there can be not only one category of victims, but: From the point of view of the victims, it is always dramatic – no matter who is abused, abused or killed; it is always the same drama from the point of view of the victims! That's why I want one to have the 20th. From the point of view of the victims in Austria, the first century worked! One last sentence: Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, what Mr Scheibner said, has already been authorized. My appeal is simple and simple: Even if you still have a national basic family like Mr. Weinzinger, you have to realize that nothing, but nothing, in the 20th century. At the end of the century, the great cultural achievements of our people have become so pervasive as the National Socialism. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's what we say.]] – No, you don’t say that in terms of clarity! You now tolerate a margin that is becoming ever wider, becoming a problem, and it is increasingly a problem of this country. [[Abg. We've gotten rid of you as a margin!]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] My appeal is to deal with this margin harder and clearer. If you do, you can also step out of here with a corresponding moral claim and say: Please, we're actually victims here! – But you are not doing this right now, and I really regret it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e19600	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it seems important to me to maintain respect for the speakers in the debate with regard to various statements and also in order to avoid inflationary distribution of calls for order. Mr Oellinger, with all the emotion, but: The term “full suitcase” in the direction of a speaker is inappropriate. Mr Kickl, "Smell" is in itself not the appropriate expression to proceed properly in a discussion. And whatever I don't approve is Mr Mag's statement. Harald Stefanim, with regard to “violence against dissidents, the claim to have the only true opinion, and to forbid others to express their opinion. That is it; and if the definition for 'Nazi' is, then it is you here in this House, and no one else!' he made in the direction of the Green Group. This is unacceptable, and I therefore give you, Mr Stefan, a call for an order. Mr Walser, it is not acceptable for you to use the term "brown soup" towards the Liberal Group. I'll give you a call for order, too. I accept Amendment No 644/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[19:02:26]] 20. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Alev Korun, colleagues in relation to a law amending the Constitutional and Residence Act (NAG), BGBl I 2005/100 (602/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e19673	We come to item 20 of the agenda. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Korun with a remaining speaking time of 1 minute.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e19700	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The previous debate, which was about nothing less than the partial abolition of the antifascist consensus in our Republic [[Unrest in the hall]] It was an infidel and obscene circulation of the circumstances when the liberals in election struggles against minorities with proverbs such as “Abendland in Christian hand” and “Day of billing” hotten and then stylize themselves to the victim and say: We're lupen-clean democrats! - That's the situation we're in. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With this proposal, we want to ensure that family members, retired people, are able to lead mostly women a self-determined life. They need an independent right of residence. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] In order to be able to combat the much-conjured violence in migrants' families well – yes, there are some – we need a handling with which we, in particular, women are staring at. know and can give them a self-determined life. They need an independent right of residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e19751	The next item is Mrs Lueger's speech. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e19773	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is true that in § 27 of the Constitutional and Residence Law, the right of establishment derives itself from the right of the or the merged person in the first five years. It is important to distinguish whether they are family members of Austrian, EEA or Swiss citizens who are permanently sedentary in Austria or of third-country nationals established in Austria. The residence title Family members receive spouses – with a large “I” – from Austrians, EEA citizens and Swiss citizens who are permanently resident here. This residence permit shall include full access to the labour market and may be extended by 24 months after two months. This five-year stay can then be converted into the permanent stay of the family members. This gives rise to considerable differences between family members of third-country nationals and family members of Austrian, EEA and Swiss citizens. Each year, the Federal Government defines the country's quota places for the various residence permits, with members of Austrians, EEA and Swiss citizens not covered, but members of third-country nationals already falling under them. In addition, it may be possible for a quota place to arrive at a waiting period of up to three years. I actually wanted to show you by these examples what different variants are already available in this law. Mrs. Korun, your concern to create your own right of residence of the spouse as early as one year of marriage is one of these many variants. There are already exceptions in the current law. In § 27 para. 3 there are reasons worthy of consideration, which are set out in the para. 4 are regulated. That is why I am convinced that we should not put this issue on a single scale, but, in general, discuss it in committee. Of course, I give you the right to protect every woman, man and child exposed to domestic violence. In addition, I would like to point out that in the government programme we have the passport to introduce the Red and White Red Card, which has already been considered that the existing quota system does not exactly reflect the needs of the labour market, but also the needs of society. It is important and correct to take into account the relevant parameters such as the impact on the labour market, the performance of the economy, but also the expected integration capacity and the security-related aspects. Immigrants who meet the criteria of the Red and White Red Card should be given additional support for integration and easier access to the labour market. The Red and White Red Card is also intended to facilitate family members who have been retiring. At the same time, the National Action Plan for Integration is being drawn up in which participation in political, cultural and economic life is the goal of successful integration. Respect for democracy, the fundamental values of human rights and human dignity and, above all, equality between men and women are an essential basis for integration. That is why I am looking forward to the discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e19827	The next item is the speech by Mr Kößl. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e19848	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Korun, we certainly cannot take your request into account. We believe that, in the present situation, we must do everything we can to prevent asylum abuse. [[Abg. May. Korun: It's about family integration!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] And precisely with this your request would open the door and gate again to abuse. [[New call of the abg. May. Korun.]] You have not presented the request in any way here, your calls for proposals are not at all a matter today, but a subject is your request, and this request is rejected by us because it would not be acceptable for the Social Minister to take account of the consequences of the labour market – even in the current situation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] You are much better off if you support the novel on asylum and foreign law, which is now under review, so that we can stop the abuse. [[New calls from the Abg. May. Korun.]] We also need to speed up the procedures, we need to reconsider all the laws to prevent abuse. We must try to do this and make sure that we bring the people who are in suspense out of the country as soon as possible. I think we still have a lot of work in this area ahead of us. Whoever abuses our hospitality and becomes a criminal in our country has no right to asylum. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] We must also take this into account in the new asylum and foreign law. I think in Austria, who has an asylum grounds, is undisputed, will get asylum, but we have to stop any abuse. This will also be the subject of new asylum and foreign law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e19923	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e19944	Mr President. High house! I have to give Mrs Korun the right to: It was a minor failure by Mr Kößl, although what he said was quite right. Even from the point of view that this is a change to the Constitutional and Residence Law, the Greens' request is to be rejected because in the grounds there are things inside that open the door to abuse in this area. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] At once, it is enough to claim that violence in the family is merely claimed; it does not have to be proved criminally, not even the police need to be informed, but it is enough to quote from your request alone; perhaps you do not know it anymore – when an authorised advisory body describes the facts, and already the blessing of a permanent stay in Austria is given! – Mrs. Korun, there will be a door and a door open to abuse! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] The regulation as it now exists is generally sufficient – and even in individual cases for special things. As Mr Cap is here now, I would also like to refer to his comments. Mr Cap said that it must be discussed here in an open debate without emotion and without hatred. - I'm telling you, I'm holding on to it. I was very proud when I was praised here in October of 2008, but may I say to you: Already this constituent session was only overshadowed by the topic of National Socialism and Fascism in Austria – and at that time there was nothing from an Ariel musician or from other discussions for it at all, but you have brought it from the beginning into this legislative period. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why you've done this by the Greens, we also know, precisely because of indiscretion from your own club, where it was said that we should be thrown and defamated liberals. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Now to you again, Mr Cap. It is already a little difficult for me to discuss without emotion here when I read – and I would like to refer to the statements made by Mr Scheibner, who said that this is something objectionable – when people are called “animals”, “bacterias” or “viruses”. The socialist youth, however, issues such a leaflet. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] – You don't need to smile so sweetly, Mrs Rudas, when it says: If we are lucky, we also see a few of them – and that means the burgers – in the wild. What do you see in the wild? - Animals! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In the wild you can see animals. It is obvious, however, that the Socialist youth does not want to see them in the wild, but rather they are locked in and behind bars. I would therefore ask you, Mr Cap, to talk to your party youth about it, in the sense of a genuinely open and serious dialogue, and of course also from my side, so that, even if Mrs Rudas still smiles so sluggishly, she will not take such a choice of words! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e20039	Mr Dr. Strutz has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e20060	Mr President. High Landtag! [[Rejoicing and calling:Where are we?]] - Excuse me: High Parliament! – It has not been so long since I was transferred to Parliament. [[New calls.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Silhavy and Mr Riepl.]] - Okay, let's do this the next time. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] – If you have calmed down, I would like to come to the actual item on the agenda. The current proposal for an initiative is nothing more than a recent attempt to bring about a massive weakening and erodement of the asylum legislation. Clearly, it is not enough for the Greens that the European Commission is planning to make a easing of the family concept of family members, to open the door and gate of asylum seekers, to receive a claim for social assistance in addition to basic care in the future, and that opportunities should be created to stop detention and that in the future people should experience special protection if they declare themselves psychologically ill. All of this is at the expense of the citizens of our state! We therefore strongly reject all these initiatives. Look The daily headlines in the newspapers – and you will remember: The security situation in Austria has deteriorated for months, in a rather dramatic and alarming form! No day without violent crimes, no day without burglaries, no day without theft! [[Calls of the Abg. May. Korun.]] Mrs Colleague, this is the difference: They of the Greens are committed to the interests of the asylum seekers, are committed to the interests of foreigners – on the other hand, we represent the interests of the Austrians. That's the difference! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The population is thinking in a massive way, is rightly concerned – and is increasingly uncertain about this situation. [[Abg. May. Korun: Don't take the whole country hostage!]] In police travels, it is increasingly often complained that among those who have recently committed numerous violent crimes, among those who have recently committed a large number of asylum seekers, who, hardly in Austria, are applying for asylum and are seeking asylum by means of alyl-law proceedings – and despite prosecution! – withdraw a deportation or at least delay it. I can show you these dramatic numbers so you can see who you are for: Since 1975 alone, the proportion of foreign convicts has increased from 9 to 30 percent, more than tripled. In April 2009, the proportion of foreign criminal and investigating prisoners increased to an incredible 43 percent. It is therefore necessary to take steps to effectively combat all these abuses. We support the fact that, in view of the enormous increase in the rate of crime in Austria, criminalized asylum seekers are not being facilitated, they are unable to stay in our country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are concerned with stricter asylum laws in Austria, but not with a reluctance to do so. Similarly, we want to reintroduce border controls, which is really the most important measure to stop rising crime in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, take note that Schengen has actually failed and that the EU's external borders in the Eastern states do not work! We from the BZÖ support measures to strengthen security in Austria. We are in favour of reintroducing border controls at Austria's borders. We are in favour of stronger asylum laws, because we represent the interests of the Austrians – not like the Greens those of the asylumers or those who are going to be punished in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e20165	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 602/A to the Committee on Internal Affairs. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:19:16]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00026_d7e20200	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 659/A to 670/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2418/J to 2458/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 17. June 2009, 10 a.m. This meeting will be started at Question Time. The agenda will be forwarded to the Members by means of the clubs. This meeting is closed.
