ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e1788	The meeting was opened. The Official Protocols of 21 and 22. Meeting of 19. On 1 May 2009, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Board of Directors. Mr Haberzettl, Mr Praßl, Mr Gartelgruber, Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, and Mr Strutz, have been reported as a prevention. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e1819	For this meeting, I will present the representation of a member of the Federal Government who is present in another Member State of the European Union, as follows: The Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Maria Fekter is represented by the Federal Minister for Science and Research Dr. Johannes Hahn. [[21:08:17]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e1852	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2415	I also say that the Fourth Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[21:08:36]] Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 610/A by Dr Josef Cap, Karlheinz Kopf, Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, Mag. Werner Kogler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act on the Limitation of Remunerations of Official Officials, and a Federal Act amending the Federal Remuneration Act and the Reference Law (209 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2452	We are now going to the only item on the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2470	In accordance with an agreement reached by the members of the President-in-Office's Conference, I propose the following Rules of Procedure for the conduct of the debate: two speech messages per group with a speaking time of 5 minutes each. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I'm going to open the debate. First of all, Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2506	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the approximation of the reference law, which has found a broad majority in the Constitutional Committee and is repeated here only on account of a formal error. I assume that this is a visible sign that Members too are helping to cope with the crisis. It is, as it were, a demonstrative act that is put here to show the savings will here in the house. If the Greens' motion for a resolution on the Europe Statute, as has been the case in the Constitutional Committee, I would like to point out that it is not Usance to regulate Members' relations on a government proposal, but that we can do this here in the House and give the rules ourselves and regulate it before the 14th. [[Abg. May. Kogler:...! We didn't like that either!]] I also believe that we can come to a five-party request if we do this together. . That was only preventive if this motion for a resolution, which has also come into the Committee, were to come. But now to a previous acting. . I really think it would be a lack of sensitivity if you were to manipulate the vote on this request, exactly on this request, for three days now, namely the debate on its third President of the National Council. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: On the matter!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: on the matter!]] [[Abg. Kickl: ridiculous!]] I think it unbearable to show the same way in justification, namely the method: We say we're the victims! [[Abg. Kickl: Did you not listen?]] He is not a victim, he can only exercise this right by himself, and he is called on by name and secret to exercise this right of election. And manipulation of this motion for a resolution is moral and has nothing to look for in this House!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2597	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2629	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is a completely unreasonable process – we do not need to talk about it at all. And it is also clear that one who has a trace of self-respect would go out and say: I made a mistake! [[Abg. Kickl: So, what else do you want?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Weinzinger, but above all Mr Vilimsky: Honestly, if the excuse comes, the left or right toes have hurt, then you are making fun of yourself in a way that is not my problem, but you make the house ridiculous, and then it will be our problem. And I can't do that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European It is clear that we, as political leaders, also have a clear signal to send about the question of salary policy for politicians. In the case of MEP-Statut, the request should come, I say what I have already said in the Committee: ==References== There will be a Constitutional Committee meeting on June. It is the deadline for implementation of 14 and 15 respectively. We shall also take a decision on this issue in good time on July. I invite everyone to use Parliament's right of self-determination in this case too. That is why I do not think it is necessary to call on the government to do so, but that is our own task. We'll do that on 30. June – hopefully unanimously.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2681	Mr Fichtenbauer has now come to speak. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2703	Madam President. High house! The great excitement could be transferred to a certain amical phase. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That’s how it suits you!]] There is a matter of agreement, and this matter of understanding is contained in the law on decision-making. That's actually all that's said. Secondly, Mr Wittmann, the artificial excitement is not good for you if I can say that in all my friendship. You packed two mistakes in your excitement. Number one: It is not a secret vote, it is an open, named vote. Secondly, Of course, nothing was manipulated. The mistake has been made, and once again, for all the intellectual intoxications in this context, I expressly make an apologies on behalf of my group – on behalf of the Group and for the two concerned. [[Call to the Greens: Are you intoxicated?- Oh, my God!]] That's it. Now I hope that big screams are no longer necessary. Would you rather scream out loud than the colleague Keck, who at first screamed in secret and insulted Austrian soldiers as a plate washer. Today’s “Kurier” says that the SPÖ foundations are now being enlightened by the judiciary. So, there are more than enough reasons to get over scandals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In my opinion, this is what it has to do with it. The mistake has been made, it will never be committed by our group again, and once again I would like to apologize for it. I'll put one more on it: I would like once again to apologize, as far as the delay of time is concerned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Mrs. Ridi Steibl says I should stop. I follow their advice. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2769	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2790	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! On its own initiative: A zero wage round is essential. That is also useful, especially at a time of economic crisis. Our group supports this, because, especially since 2006, after the resurgence of the great coalition, it is very necessary that we ensure transparency in political relations, that we introduce transparency, that we go forward with a good example. Then: As a large coalition has done by 1999, Austria is still painfully remembered. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] Now to this disgrace for democracy, to this contempt of democracy. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] Mr Vilimsky, you are not in the house now, but Mr Weinzinger, you are here: For 8 400 € gross per month from 1. According to the Court of Auditors, it is not even a matter of fulfilling the honourable Member's own primary duties and entering the plenary session here and thus exercising the right of vote in a democracy, that is a shame! This is not a way of dealing with democracy that you have shown here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And then come with an excuse, even though you have twice taken part in one vote, but with two votes you have the “left toe” toe: That would be if I didn't get an order call for it, lying. That's why I'm not saying it either. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! The small one-time of parliamentarism builds on democracy. If you are involved in democracy here in this House, you will fulfil your duties – you will be rewarded for it. To become They pay for it at a time when other people depend on the unemployed. Therefore: In the future, do not do what you have done today, where you have once again needed shame over this house! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2855	Mr Oellinger has now come to speak. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2876	Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is a fine example of political education in this House, and I am convinced that this scene on YouTube will land more hits than the honourable Member Schwab, who has already made a strong offer. The Austrians should also be able to see how Mr Vilimsky and Mr Weinzinger justified themselves! I think the Austrians can learn from it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now on the real issue, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It was already said a lot – that was a bit too thick for me: We are progressing with a good example; only this House itself gives itself its rules! It would have been nice if this House were to set rules, not only as regards the political salaries now involved in this round, but also as regards the political pensions of the old reference system. The symbolic contribution that you do not have to make to the increase of €80 per month is probably a little too close to the pensions that you can still receive in old reference law. In view of the possibilities available in the old reference law, most of which have nothing at all here, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Just briefly: What we are trying to implement here is a moderate increase in pension contributions, which currently amount to up to €4,000 pension, and for the above-mentioned proportions of pensions – and there are pensions that can amount to up to € 11 000, 12 000 or € 13 000 – additional 7 percent, resulting in a mixed rate of about 11 percent pension insurance contribution. We want to pay up to €4,000 for pensions in the future 10 percent and 20 percent for the above parts in the future, so that a mixed rate of about 14 to about 17 percent of pension insurance contributions would result. That is the meaning and purpose of this request, of which we believe it follows the classification of the old reference law. It is not an immeasurable demand, but a useful contribution, because we believe that pensioners should also make their corresponding and adequate contribution to the old referee law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2961	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3066	Mr Pilz has spoken as a further speaker. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3095	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A few hours ago I had a conversation with the vice chancellor and told him that, of course, I didn't call him to be an Austrofascist – for a very simple reason: because he's not an Austrofascist and there's no reason to call him an Austrofascist. I also had the impression that Mr Vice-Chancellor understood this very well in the debate. I will now explain to you what I have said, because it is also important to me that this is in the Minutes, because it was quite a political call for interaction. In his contribution to the chapter on internal security, Mr Vice-Kanzler continued something that the Minister for the Interior began on the occasion of Ebensee, namely a redistribution of the guilt from the extreme right to the so-called left and left extremes. And that's what happened again. [[Abg. Head: But now it's enough! That's incredible!]] Who's to blame? The left and left extremities and the right and right extremities. I don't know any left hand participation in Ebensee. [[Abg. Street: What are the “children’s friends ” and the“ red falcons ”?]] I don't know any left hand participation in the "Olympia" Burschenship. I don't know any left backmen of Martin Graf. I pointed out this with an intermediate call, and he said – in addition – that the left-wing extremists and the right-wing extremists and your Austrofascists on the club wall. I meant Engelbert Dollfuß and not Josef Pröll, and I still think the difference between Josef Pröll and Engelbert Dollfuß is very, very important, because it is very much about our Austrian democracy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I note one more point: In terms of content, of course, I remain in my criticism. In terms of content, after today's day, after the debates and after the outcome of the vote on our motion for a resolution with the aim of calling for Martin Graf to resign: You can't redistribute the debt. It is certainly not good in this House for the reputation of the Republic and Parliament if Martin Graf and his friends in FPÖ can rely on the fact that, when it comes to the office of Dr Graf, they can finally expect the protection of the ÖVP. And there's too little commitment to antifascism. It is about the fact that there is a majority in this House not only in confession but also in the consequences. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Only when a majority of this House is able to take unmistakable steps to ensure that national Council meetings are led as soon as possible by non-competent presidents and presidents, will the National Council restore its own reputation and reputation for Austrian democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3174	Mr Klubobmann's head is mentioned. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3196	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pilz, on and on, your speech has not deserved an answer, but one, two clarifications must be it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ]] First of all: At the last meeting, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Fekter, made very clear what you said at the time of the Ebensee meeting, namely the opposite of what you said, Mr Pilz. There was no mention of the distribution of debt in one direction or another! Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter has quoted here very minutely, exactly the APA reports and their statements, and you know that too. – And now you claim something else against better knowledge here again. You should be ashamed! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Secondly, once again and hopefully no longer necessary: We of the ÖVP have clearly condemned Mr. Graf's statements to Mr. Dr. Muzicant, and have strongly condemned them. It was Mr Mag. Mag. Molterer, who has made this clear before – and it is nothing more to add to that. [[Call the Greens:You want to keep an option open!]] Please note: You will probably try to raise this issue in the next few days. Maybe it's after the 7th. In June, the evidence showed that you are first and foremost concerned with the mobilization of your own people, who so far seem to have no particular interest in the European election. But please don't use us to mobilize your people!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3250	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 209 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary request. I shall first vote on the supplementary proposal mentioned and then on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Since Article 1 of the present draft law is the amendment of a federal constitution law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Oellinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, concerning the insertion of a new point 1 into Article 3 and the resulting amendment to the numbering of the paragraphs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this supplementary request an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this. – This is unanimously accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – In turn, this is unanimously adopted, and this also gives the constitutional majority required. Reading of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3313	In addition, the written request of 20 Members is to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol, in order to be deemed approved at the end of the meeting. This will enable immediate decision-making. I shall therefore proceed in this way and now read the Official Protocol: “With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, the President refers to the communication pursuant to § 23 para. 4 GOG (Annex B). The President also announced that the Fourth Report of the Inconsistency Committee was distributed to all members of the National Council. The following speech time agreement was also reached for the debate: Two speech messages per group of 5 minutes. This proposal by the President, on which agreement was reached at the President's sitting, was adopted unanimously. TO point 1: Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 610/A by Dr Josef Cap, Karlheinz Kopf, Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, Mag. Werner Kogler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act on the Limitation of Remunerations of Official Officials, and a Federal Act amending the Federal Remuneration Act and the Reference Act (209 of Supplements) Mr Oellinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. The vote will take place at The amendment Annex 1/1 is rejected (for this reason: FPÖ, BZÖ, Green). The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 209, will be adopted unanimously in second and third reading in the presence of the constitutional number of Members, i.e. with the required two-thirds majority. There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members, the Official Protocol of 24. Read the session (Annex C).’ Are there any objections to the version or content of this Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. The agenda is exhausted. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 21.33 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. The sitting is closed.
