ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9779	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. For today's session, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Mr Praßl and Mr Oellinger. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we will soon have a vote. That's why I'm trying to get you to take your seats. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9810	For this meeting, I will present the representation of a member of the Federal Government who is present in another Member State of the European Union, as follows: The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich. [[09:02:33]] Assignment
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9843	I would like to point out the government's proposal concerning the 3rd. Social law amendment law 2009, 197, e.g., to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[09:02:42]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9870	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure asked that the written question put before the entry into the agenda be dealt with in an urgent manner by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for the Interior on failure to fight against extremism. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9892	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 3 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9921	After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, for today's meeting day and for the following session days until and including Thursday, 28. In May 2009, a day-block speaking time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ was proposed, so that the following speaking times per meeting day would be: SPÖ and ÖVP per 122, FPÖ 108 as well as BZÖ and greens per 95 minutes. For the budget debate on Friday, 29. May 2009, a day-block speaking time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been set so that the following speaking times for this day are: SPÖ and ÖVP per 108, FPÖ 96 as well as BZÖ and greens per 84 minutes. In the sense of a concerted procedure agreed at the Presidential Conference, the debate on the Federal Financial Framework Act and the Federal Financial Laws 2009 and 2010 is divided as follows: Discussion on the Federal Finance Framework Act and general debate on the Federal Finance Laws 2009 and 2010, further a part of the Supreme Institutions and the Federal Chancellery, some European and international affairs, part of the state defense and sports, part economy, family and youth, part science and research, part health, part work, social and consumer protection, part education, art and culture, part transport, innovation and technology, part justice, part internal, part agriculture and forestry, environmental and water management and another part of finance as well as each text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Annex I, including Appendices II to IV. This is a breakdown which has been given to the honourable Member in writing. In any event, the relevant topics will be discussed at the end of the negotiation of the Federal Proposal on the same day. The session will then be suspended. The votes – the second and third reading each – on the Federal Financial Framework Act and the Federal Financial Laws 2009 and 2010 will be held on Friday, 29. May, take place. The President-in-Office of the Council also agreed on the design of the debate on the subject of negotiations. Each department is first spoken per and counter. Before entering the debate on the next section budget, all speakers who have been reported on this part will at least speak. The term of office for members of the government according to § 57 para. 8 GOG will not be used. The term of office of the member of the government responsible, which exceeds 20 minutes, or the speaking time of the competent State Secretary, which exceeds 10 minutes, will be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. During the debate on the Federal Financial Framework Act and the general debate on the Federal Financial Laws 2009 and 2010 on the 20th of July, 2009. In May 2009, all members of the government and State Secretary shall be considered to be members of the board. The speaking time of non-governmental government members or State Secretarys is at least counted on the speaking time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, Mr Vice-Chancellor's speech should be in the debate held under the thematic areas of "Top Institutions" and "Bundeskanzleramt", provided that the speaking time does not exceed the duration of 10 minutes. The National Council shall vote on this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal – this long proposal, which I have now referred to in detail – to give an appropriate signal. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Abg. Riepl: (on the empty seats of the representatives of the FPÖ pointing) The blues make blues!]] [[09:07:43]] 1. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template (110 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Federal Financial Framework Act 2009 to 2012 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2010 to 2013 will be adopted (199 d.b.) 2. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template (111 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2009 (Federal Finance Act 2009 – BFG 2009) together with investments (200 d.B.) 3rd. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template (112 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for 2010 (Bundesfinanzgesetz 2010 – BFG 2010) together with investments (201 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10026	We now come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. [[Abg. Bucher: On business treatment!]] Mr Klubobmann Bucher spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10060	Madam President. High house! We will advise the budget for 2009 and for 2010 in this and the next week. Leading economic experts from the country – especially one who is also very familiar with the Minister of Finance – and an institution that has contributed significantly to the preparation of the 2010 budget have taken back their forecasts and said that the budget figures cannot be kept in such a way, especially for the year 2010 – that it is therefore unreasonable and irresponsible to adopt the 2010 budget as presented by the Minister of Finance. [[Call the SPÖ:Lauter! I know it's her last wish.]] Therefore, according to § 53 para. 6 C 2 of the Rules of Procedure the request, the report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template (112 d.e._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for 2010 (Bundesfinanzgesetz 2010 – BFG 2010), including investments (201 d.B.) to refer to the Budget Committee in order to continue the discussions there in order to establish a budget for 2010, based on reliable figures and data, which corresponds in some way to the realities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10113	I see another word on business treatment: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10138	Madam President. The reasons for the referral request will probably fall even more often during the debate. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. When do we do it?]] – Good morning, Minister of State, Mr Vice-Chancellor! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Good morning!]] The applicant is right in the case, and that is why this should also be used for formal reasons. The figures for this year's budget are very wacky. For this you may not be able to see that the economic situation is changing so rapidly in their forecasts, but you may already be able to make sure that at least for the next year the figures are more accurate. It is certainly limited in likelihood that this numbering work will be built on sand, and therefore it is simply reasonable to refer the template back. It is generally true that these double budgets are likely to be inadequate than when the budget is presented in autumn. That makes sense. You know very well that this “double-budget” is not good for many experts, but if you are working with numbers that are probably not going to vote, you can do that. In conclusion, I quote Mr Felder of the IHS, who expressly stated on the radio this morning that the economic growth forecasts are being revised even further downwards and that the budget is unlikely to do so. You can't even do that much for it, but be at least as good and do what your job is: Send as precise numbers as possible! By the way, I would like to draw your attention to: The principle of budgetary truth can be derived from the Constitution, and you are also obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10185	A further word on business management: Member of the Court of Justice. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10212	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We will support the BZÖ's request, but not because we want to block work in the House, but because the conditions have actually changed and we as mandates have the obligation to decide a budget on the basis of possible figures. If we are going to take the debate in the next few days and decide on a budget that is not sustainable, it is negligent. It is therefore necessary, in fact, to make this more work, to refer back, to the new figures and then to decide on a budget as precise as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10239	A further word on business management: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10263	I would just like to predict that the line of argument of the opposition parties here is somewhat contrary. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Supplemented!]] On the one hand, it is always claimed that the prognostics are not right, but now the prognostics are suddenly being used to announce that they are right. This is still connected with an apocalyptic basic setting that is not new to us in the opposition in some questions, therefore also today. Your proposal, Mr Bucher, would, of course, be equivalent to a certain call for refusal of work. Now, however, the population wants us to decide a budget, a budget that goes beyond 2009, so that the government can work and work against crisis development. Therefore, a referral would be highly irresponsible and unwise. If there are adaptation needs, then this adaptation – we often see ourselves here in plenary or also in committees – can also be made. We cannot, of course, join the request, to your regret, Mr Bucher.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10304	A further word on business management: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10328	Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know what Mr Felder was listening to today, because that Mr Felder, whom I heard earlier in the 'Morgenjournal' today, Mr Bernhard Felder, Chairman of the Committee on Public Debt and Approved Economics, has essentially confirmed the figures that the Minister of Finance has based on the budget, early today. So you must have heard someone else. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have a wrong radio!]] But one thing is clear: The most precise is the budget that you decide afterwards, after the end of the year. If you want to go this way, then go him – we don't go with him!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10373	I note that the request made by Mr Klubobmann Bucher to refer the matter back to committee was properly made and in accordance with § 53 para. 6 C 2 of the Rules of Procedure at the end of the debate, i.e. on Friday, 29. May, to vote. We are going into the debate on Agenda items 1 to 3. First of all, Mr Grastaur. Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10402	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Save in time, then you're in trouble! – This is a motto that is very well known in the population, but unfortunately not in the Federal Government. Indeed, in the years 2006 to 2008, thanks to a God, one took €14.7 billion more than was planned, and these would have been reserves that were urgently needed in times of crisis in which we are today. But SPÖ and ÖVP have managed to spend the entire surplus income again. In the meantime, the deficit linkage has risen to €180 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] The budget for 2009 and for 2010 – we have just talked about it – has been Makulatur since today, since it has been printed, because the figures, the figures shown in it, are wrong from home. The Minister of Finance has assumed an economic downturn of 2.2 percent in the preparation of this budget. In the meantime, we know that the downturn according to the EU and OECD is 4 percent; also confirmed by the figures and figures of the year 2009 with minus 3.6 percent in Austria. This means that the key points in the budget are wrong. It is not 13 billion € deficit, but we will probably arrive at the 20 billion € deficit per year in 2009 and 2010. 20 billion deficit – an unimaginable number! 20 billion deficits, about the value of 80 000 single-family homes! Why is that so? – Because, of course, the downturn in the economy reduces income tax, wage tax, corporate tax and VAT, i.e. all essential taxes, down. I would therefore really recommend that we support the request made earlier by Mr Bucher. It is not too late to redesign the 2010 budget. The debt level will explode to € 280 billion by 2013. 280 billion debts of the state of Austria – and if you add ÖBB and ASFINAG, you get over €300 billion of public debt. We owe almost one GDP in Austria. Unfortunately, there are still very high unemployment rates, 500 000 or 600 000 unemployed, according to forecast. – For me as a decent merchant, an absolute disaster of the budget. An absolute disaster! You, Mr Finanzminister, remain guilty of the answer as you will ever see this debt decommissioned. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that you are quite helpless to this fact. What bothers me so much about you is that you seem to be taking note of things in secret indifferent. The following generations will have to bear on it. Each of us currently has a backpack of €30 000 at the bumple, and we pay €11 billion interest per year for the debt. – €11 billion per year must be paid for interest – a horror scenario badhin! Mr. Finanzminister, if you were in the private sector and if you were to deliver such plans to a private company, you would not be the Chief Financial Officer for long. - I have to tell you. [[Abg. Neugebauer: A private company registers with the state!]] It goes practically according to the motto: Oh, you dear Augustin, everything is gone!, and there are apparently no alternatives. I say there are and there are alternatives, although we have serious savings; Save wherever it is possible. Of course, politics, close-to-state institutions, all managers working here, should go ahead with a good example. Unfortunately, I have too little time, but next week we have an opportunity to talk about it. Mr Auer, yesterday you shot me because of my comments on EU contribution. [[Call to the ÖVP: ‘Surveiled?’]] I am still of the opinion that the EU contribution, at least in terms of net payment, the €800 million, should and could not be reduced to € 400 million, and I do not understand why we need to make a detour across the EU for farmers. €1.5 billion goes back to Austria via the EU, and €250 million you don't know who even got it. – That on your yesterday’s note. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Less! 1.1 billion, not 1.5 billion!]] Before thinking about new taxes in this state, all savings available in the federal, state, local and local authorities and the state-in-state enterprises should be raised. The former Minister of Finance Dr. Androsch is certainly right if he says that new taxes would be in the current situation morphium because they would only mitigate the pressure to reform in the federal, state and local authorities. Apparently we are still too good in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10478	The next item is Mr Auer's speech with 10 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10499	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grastaur, I would like to say that I did not ‘fire’ you yesterday, but I have to say, in view of the fact that your group's farmers' representatives are still calling for more and more resources here, just reminding us that it is not compatible and compatible, that more is required on the one hand, and on the other hand, that you are expressly referring to the need to halve EU payments. This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen – no more and no less. But maybe she'll make an internal hearing to explain these things and these questions. Well, that would be imaginable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Savings in time, Mr Grazauer has referred to an old saying as quoting, then you are in distress. - He's right. [[Abg. Bucher: Does that fit for Raiffeisen as well?]] However, if I should sum up everything, Mr Grastaur, what has been demanded by you or your group and the opposition in the last few years as a whole, then we already have a greater deficit. If Mr Grastaur believes that the Federal Minister for Finance would be the financial director of a company only for a short period of time, I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that we should also say: So far, the companies have signed up to the state – and not vice versa. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps a brief review of the Committee's budget deliberations, and at the same time a thank you. The leaders of the political groups had agreed last March to take a new approach to make the Committee's budgetary deliberations more exciting and interesting. If you look at the matter objectively, I think it was quite successful – not necessarily from the outset to the joy of all ministries, that was confirmed. But perhaps we should consider a different procedure here in plenary, because what are we actually doing? – First reading: General debate; yesterday de facto again: General debate; today de facto again: General debate, 26th General debate Casting up so much under the motto: [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Jury]] It's all said, just not by me!, and maybe three and four times more, just to maintain rituals and fill up barbarians. I think that's really too little, ladies and gentlemen. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP and of representatives of SPÖ and BZÖ.]] I shall perhaps invite the political leaders of all the political groups to reflect on the similar things we have succeeded in the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Steger and his colleagues for the new budgetary law, which he has brought us closer to us in countless discussions, although he may still have a need for recovery, as regards the information of one colleague or another, because when I recall some advice, I sometimes had the impression that not all of us knew that we have a unanimous budgetary right. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] In principle, I should also like to thank my alternates in the Committee on Budgets for the fact that Mr Gartlehner from the SPÖ, Mr Weinzinger from FPÖ and Mr Sonnberger from his own group were. It was an objective, perfect presidency, and I also thank all club staff, regardless of what group. You will understand that I too am my own controller, Mr Mag. Andy Samonig, mention. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Special thanks are especially due to the staff of Parliament who have done excellent work, because budgetary committee consultations are now very time-consuming. So also a special thank you to the employees! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all of you have greatly facilitated our deliberations in the Committee, and this is quite positive. The budget is cast in figures, so it is said very often. The fact that the decision of a double budget is sometimes difficult is also undisputed. Even in good times, it was very often said critically that the figures, the facts, would not be sustainable. In recent years, however, it has almost always been clear that the figures in the accounts have been much better presented. I have become a bit cautious if the economic ‘wise’, the experts, the credit rating agencies are always telling us different things, because if they were always right, we would not have this economic crisis, this financial crisis, because they should have seen it all. Obviously their judgment was not so positive either, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury.]] - It's Job Hopper, yes. But one thing has become clear: What credit rating agencies have partially given of themselves and what the IMF and also a certain Krugman have done in the credit assessment is a scandal. – It was held once again. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jury.]] The same credit rating agencies that have been subscribing Austria in the last few weeks have still issued products with the best credit quality, which has also caused damage to the Austrian economy. Ladies and gentlemen, a note: Europe and perhaps we in Austria should not take all that comes from America without criticism. It was interesting: What we in Europe have been looking at in credit rating agencies and American financial scientists with Basel II, so to speak, is remarkable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where is it discussed?]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's important!]] The Americans invent the rules, and they don't keep them themselves. In fact, Basel II is misplaced. Mr Pirklhuber, especially from your group, it was thought that Basel II would have to be formulated even more strongly when it was finally implemented. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Such a fool!]] Look Once in your minutes, you will read it yourself if you have already forgotten what you gave of yourself! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's incredible!]] The fact is, Basel II is wrong. There are narrow limits for small businesses, and there are no regulations to date, including international financial transactions, for large international financing. In principle, however, it should be noted that the world economy is obviously already recovering. ‘Tallfahrt über über über über über über über über über über über At the end, the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” are titled today in relation to the world economy. And then we're going to go on: “Economic plans get food from all parts of the world.” Now I know, it's a delicate plant – Mr Kogler, don't get upset! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Take this back! You betrayed your Raiffeisen branches!]] You have enough time and possibilities to express yourself here afterwards, and you will do so in a skillful way. [[Abg. May. Kogler: If you listen to this, you do not have to disprove that in a reasonable speaking time!]] It's a shame if you're stretching your nerves here. This harms your blood pressure and also your expression. Stay back, you have enough chances – even the whole next week – to articulate this here! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Hold to the truth!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I am at the speaker's desk, Mr Pirklhuber. I am at the speaker's desk, Mr Colleague. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Your group has completely fallen into this matter! That's incredible! Just because you're paid by Raiffeisen, you don't need to!]] Mr Kogler, I would ask you to take this back. I am not paid here in Parliament by Raiffeisen, but by the Austrian State! Take note of this! [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] - You too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's so crazy again!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Stand by what you have done as a responsible person!]] – What did I do? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Well, what did you vote for Basel II?]] – What did I do? What did I do, Mr Kogler? – Same as you, we have decided unanimously, have we? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Sure!]] Or don't you remember? Maybe you can help your memory a little. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But you're tearing up the barrel, totally unmotivated!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this double budget of 2009 and 2010 is a positive approach to coping with the crisis. This budget is well-founded, and you will see that the billing will give us a right, and you will be amazed at how precise this budget is. Of course there are new challenges, this is undisputed. But if there is someone who could predict exactly and precisely how the economy is developing – how the data and facts will arise – then he should become brighter. I'm not able to do that. It is important to explain the figures and facts according to best knowledge and conscience. That's what the Federal Minister did. This government has tried to set up a positive double budget and to give the answers for the difficult time ahead of us, so to speak. [[Abg. Booker: Positive? A positive budget?]] Ladies and gentlemen! – Yes, Mr Westenthaler: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What's positive?]] What's positive? This could also be asked about your speeches!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10849	Now comes Mr Mag. Stadler. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10870	Madam President. High house! Good morning, Mr Faul – where is he? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's hanging by the drop!]] Oh, please take a look at what he's doing! Not that he's going through the Rostra again. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's hanging by the drop!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] - No, I'm worried about him, really. When I look at what he put up here last night: Please, you have to deal with your colleague Faul a little bit more collegiately. I've seen him in the early morning, and he's already sweated like this again and pulled the sakko out. I don't know what's going on with him. I've had the hope that he's got his seven senses back together today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Seven senses?! are only five!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you don't worry about my colleague Faul, you'll allow us to worry. Mr Kopf – Look, I don’t want to hear from you if one of us yesterday would have been as listed as your colleague Faul, ladies and gentlemen. – Sit in the glasshouse and throw stones, there you are world champions! [[Abg. Riepl: How many senses do you have together today?]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Riepl: You always act!]] Mr. Kopf, I must now present to you the quote of the head of the IHS, Bernhard Felder. [[Abg. Head: But all this, please! Do not quote selectively!]] - Yes, I'm presenting it. You obviously had the wrong program inside today. I even suspect you heard an old sports show from Andi Felder. Take the CD out and just turn on the current radio, then that's all right. Today in the early days, Bernhard Felder, head of the IHS, said that he estimated the less revenue compared to 2008 at €5 billion this year. This is according to Adam Ries – less revenue compared with 2008. [[Abg. Head: Against 2008, not against the budget!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Matznetter and Riepl.]] The opposite is – yes, yes. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Is budgeted!]] Slow down, slow down! That's about 5 billion – "Are you narrative" isn't true, Mr. Cot! [[Call at the ÖVP: It's in the budget!]] [[Abg. Booker: (to the government bank) Don't get nervous!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: This is in the strategy paper!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. You're a fool!]] That's the fielder, that's your main advisor. He writes here: 5 billion € this year, 2009. [[Abg. Head: Against 2008!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] - Wonderful! It's getting even thicker, now it's going on: Evil awakening only later. Felder expects that after the crisis, many countries will have an additional debt of 20 percent of the gross domestic product and more. [[Abg. Head: Stand in the budget!]] Austria's debt will rise from 58 percent at the beginning of 2008 to 77 percent at the end of 2011. Original quote: “There will certainly be a need to correct the medium-term budget planning.” – Quotat Felder, not Ewald Stadler! [[Abg. May. Worm: That's not true! Strategy!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: In the medium term!]] Not until you are silly, as Mr. Vice-Chancellor says. Because you find it so ‘nearly’, I quote it again: "There will certainly be a need to correct the medium-term budget planning," says Felder. 2011 ” – Mr. Vice-Chancellor, that’s not so far away; in 2011, we’ve been in a year and a half – “there’s going to be states that are going to rehabilitate, and another group that doesn’t make it. “And then it becomes clear that we cannot afford such debts at any level, and that we have to bring them back.” – Quotes. “Are you narrative,” says Mr Vice-Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen. See, that's what we've been thinking: You're silly! Back to the Committee on Budgets, another budget has to be based on less narrative assumptions, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Minister of Finance! Look, I want to focus on a sector that is currently important to the public: security. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The Austrians want security! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] All polls show: They want social security, they want public security and they want job security. What does the job security of this Federal Government look like? Work security looks like the Social Democratic Group is currently with its A team – I don't know what that is, an A team; I think that's Mr Swoboda; and I always thought that's Mister Bean on the poster back there, but I then found that the colleague is easily satisfied; I didn't know him, no one knows him in Austria – the following is advertised: [[Sadness at the BZÖ]] [[OBJECTIVES]] Who in the EU is looking to ensure that our labour market is protected? The A-Team! – I am now telling you how that looks! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is the Faul on it?]] [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] This A-Team – well that you have already applauded, but it was too early – decides in the house a gay opinion on an asylum directive, which in the future will give every asylum-seekers full access to the labour market at the latest six months after they have applied for asylum, and that where we have had to fear unemployment at the end of the year up to 500 000 – your colleague has said back there, ladies and gentlemen! This is the protection of the A-Team for the labour market in Austria! Safety of the workplace? – Far missing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mölzer wasn't there!]] You can't steal from the Austrian People's Party either. Now, the EIAs are saying that they were the only ones who have always opposed to adopting this asylum directive. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's it!]] - It was a schmarr’n! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who knows what the “A” stands for?- Oh, my God!]] I am telling you, your own group outside – the EPP – has voted in favour by a majority. Your Members were still scratching the curve at the last moment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] And what you have decided here in the house is the so-called “Critical-Dreinschau-regulung”. I'll show you. That's what it says: "The access to the labour market falls within the national competence of the Member States. Harmonised access to the labour market 6 months after application is therefore considered critical.” Then it goes on: “The limitation of the reasons for withdrawal in basic supply is therefore critical.” – “... The terms of the inclusion directive are therefore “critical”. – “... Therefore, group of particularly vulnerable persons on psychologically ill persons is “critically seen.” Tell me, can you look at something else except critically and then be for it? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Her Minister of the Interior voted in favour of this in the Council. I am convinced that she has looked at critically three, but unfortunately no one has noticed it, ladies and gentlemen, because it was in the vote for it! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (on Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. He's looking critically three again!]] In the EU Parliament, Mr Karas, the deputy group leader, voted in favour of this directive with four fifths of his group, ladies and gentlemen. That's really what your policy looks like! This is labour market security à la ÖVP, à la SPÖ and your A-team. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What does this “A” stand for?- Oh, my God!]] The second point is the issue of public security: Currently, in Austria – especially in Austria – the numbers of burglaries in apartments and houses are rising at unexpected heights. We have not noticed anything from Mrs Federal Minister Fekter in recent times. This is very busy with the fact that Mr. Strasser obviously uses his own private tip in house searches in the Meinl bank. Did you notice that? There is also a parliamentary question. Today, even a newspaper has written about it. They were even more precise than I was, they even have an affidavit. One has to imagine that the former Minister of the Interior has a private Spittel company, in which he is involved with 10 percent. A former chief of police, Mr. Sturm, is present at this company. Mr. Havranek – who is well-known by the SPÖ; he has already sold you some advice, which he later sold to the court – is the managing director there, and they take part in a house search at the Meinl bank as the private tip of Mr. Strasser. You can guess three times where the entire data went. - That's what it looks like. It's all known in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. I can't believe it.]] - Please, that's not inconceivable. If you're such a foolly good at it today, I'll give you the newspaper article, maybe you can read through the newspaper article in the meantime. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Do you want me to read this article to you? – ‘Mil: ==References====External links== – You can read this, that's all perfectly researched! By the way, they are more accurate than I am in my request. That means they found out even better what happened here. I could now give you no number – and we will do so in the context of the mistrust against Mrs Fekter – examples of how this ministry threatens security: Crime rates are rising, unwholesome asylum policy, tow scandal in Salzburg is hiding; a couple drag over a thousand illegals into the country, and that is hidden, because that has not fit into the election campaign. – This is the task of this minister! Further: This is not the case, but it is not the case that we are not going to be able to do anything about it. Mensdorff-Pouilly – to this day the entire swamp in the Ministry of the Interior has been covered up more than cleared up! Then the story of how Mr. Strasser operates with his private stasi here. Schubhaftzentrum in Leoben: a single affront against the population there – Minister of the Interior Fekter responsible for it! The measure is full, ladies and gentlemen. This is not public security, as you would have to guarantee it. For this, the taxpayer does not pay his taxes that he must ultimately organise private security himself. However, Mr Strasser also offers a second company for this. He has hollowed out the security ministry, and then he offers a private company and offers security at private law level, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] You can buy it if you can afford it. For this purpose, will the Austrian taxpayer be asked to cash out? - No! The cause of the state, Mr Vice-Chancellor, is the granting of internal and external security. The external security is not at risk to God, but the internal security is massively threatened under this Minister, ladies and gentlemen. And that is why we will have to talk to the Federal Minister in a different way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Yesterday, in the context of the debate around the Randalians at the WKR-Ball, two Hungary – which they said quite salopp – have been caught. In the meantime, even the Party of the Interior Minister of Italy is demanding border controls! These Hungarian randalists – once such randalists have been intercepted at the border – I still remember this, this international randal tourism, which is taking place here – can now, as it were, develop their marginalisation activities throughout Europe as they wish. [[Abg. Grandruck: The rhinestone...!]] – This has nothing to do with Mr Strache! This has to do with the fact that you no longer have this in mind that the gangs that can drive across Europe can loot old women in their homes, as the case now shows in Wolfsberg, the police says, it will no longer be controlled, we will no longer be mastering the matter – and the Minister of the Interior is sleeping on it. This is the problem that lies behind it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We won't let you out of the drawing. Internal security, social security, job security – that would have to be the maximum in times like those you would have to deliver to the citizens. Your budget speaks another language. Your budget is trying to beautify the crisis, trying to get through a budget with false assumptions, a budget you know exactly that it will not hold. And such a budgetary policy, Mr Vice-Chancellor, we will certainly not support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11362	Next, Mr Krainer. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11408	This is not yet certain whether “the Ewald” will be missing from the house, because the BZÖ has to get enough votes, and that does not seem to be the case. But perhaps from the EU election campaign back to the budget debate. What was the result not only of expert hearing, but of the entire debate in the Committee on Budgets, is that there is no alternative to this budget, no serious alternative to that. The budget sets some priorities. The subject of security has already been raised. Yes, the budget follows a policy other than before. When blue and orange were in the government, there have been a thousand police officers in Vienna alone, now we are making up a thousand more police officers. [[Objection to the BZÖ.]] This is the difference whether black/blue is in a government or red: One kills the police, the other, the reds, make sure there are more police again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Where are your police?]] [[Abg. Street: There have never been as few police officers as today! Recordminus currently!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Faul alone needs three policemen!]] You can look at that in the budget – I know you probably haven't managed to look into the budget in the last 14 days, but if you do, you'll see that. The budget provides for a massive tax reduction primarily in the field of small and medium-sized incomes. The first step in tax reform was already taken with 1. July last year, the second step is retroactively 1st. Most of them have already been paid. Also a difference at the time when blue and orange were in the government, because: What was the average relief for the “greatest tax reform ever ”? – 7 € per month! We are at an average discharge of a few hundred euros per year. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Who gets it? Where's that?]] That's the difference whether black and orange are in government or red. There are priorities in the field of education, research and development and, of course, in social matters – labour market, active and passive labour market policies, funds for short work et cetera, which is particularly important in the crisis. There was a criticism, namely that it is not yet clear how to reduce the deficit again, that there is no programme to do so. What the experts have said about this is that it is necessary to take advantage of the time to develop the programme next year, how to get the deficit back. And that's where I say, as a representative of social democracy, here in the house: It's relatively simple. Yes, of course, one will have to look at the expenditure side, where one can make the state more efficient, where we can also save on expenditure, but we also need to look at the revenue structure. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: My God, it is boring!]] It is also enshrined in the government agreement that we look at the tax structure and look at how we achieve revenue, how we tax capital income, how we tax labour and how we can ensure that there is more tax justice. And yes: If we have to do something on the revenue side, then there are taxes that are toxic to the economy – especially taxes on work, taxes on work – and there are tax revenues that have no or hardly any impact on the economy, and these are property-related taxes. That is, we will have to think very carefully about tax structural issues and also about how to reorganise the budget, so that we do not disturb employment, that we do not disturb the economy, that we do not disturb the economy. This means, however, reducing taxes and taxes on work and increasing taxes and taxes on assets or property-related taxes on the same train. That's easy. And if you want to make this economy effective, that's certainly the right way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein:... Häuselbauer!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: The basic tax!]] This is about stock speculation. I'm sorry for you, Mr Bartenstein, but I'll tell you one thing: If someone out of stock speculation earns money, then he's supposed to pay his taxes just as much as someone who's going to work. It is not at all obvious that someone standing on the blast furnace pays for it, and someone who speculates with shares doesn't pay a tax on it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What irritates me a little is now the discussion about double budgets. We are, in fact, discussing the Federal Financial Framework Act; this is not a double budget, but a quadruple budget. We have said unanimously that we want the medium-term legal commitment to the long-term issue. I assume that it is one of the last double budgets that we need, because we now have four-year budgets every year, and that's not about whether they're built on sand, but those that apply, that's going to be a law, and there's legal ties. There are no legal ties to everything – no. You cannot lay down the revenue by law, and you can also specify certain expenditures by law, such as the expenditures for pensions and for unemployment. But all other expenses apply, and they apply from the day we decide, and are law. That's nothing that doesn't count and is worth nothing. This is a law, and so it will be, and so it will keep, and nothing else. What surprises me a little is this voodoo budget policy of the liberals: on the one hand, increasing expenditure in all possible areas, on the other hand reducing taxes by several billion euros, but not making a deficit. No one has been able to explain how this is supposed to work in the last two weeks; perhaps someone can do it now. I don't believe that. This is a simple Voodoo policy. It doesn't work. Increase expenditure, reduce revenue and no deficit – this does not work anywhere. In that respect, it is good that you are not in the government, because we have already experienced what it has to do with Austria when it is a Minister of Finance. We can now in truth rebuild all that has been destroyed slowly and laboriously. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: There's someone living in a shimmering world here!]] The colleague Auer thanked his deputy, the staff of the house, the officials, the ministries. Thank you, I can join you here. But he didn't thank one – that's clear! – namely, himself for his work. In so far as there is also a thank you to the colleagues As chairman of the Committee on Budgets for the Common Work on this budget! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to have an exciting discussion until we reached 29th. This budget is also decided on in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11623	Mrs Klubobfrau Dr Glawischnig-Pieszcek has now come to speak. I'll set the clock up to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11655	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Auer, chairman of the Committee on Budgets, has previously complained that this is a ritual, an endless debate, and until not everyone has said everything, we are now sitting in the National Council for seven days. This ritual would not be so paralyzing, there would be a serious willingness to take up or at least seriously respond to the arguments put forward here. If you make yourself a government or an ÖVP and SPÖ on the first day and say: Fresh, bird, or die!, and no more serious arguments at all, then you can actually save yourself. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to say an example of what you are talking about and what we can still discuss in the Committee on Budgetary Negotiations, but also in the coming days. You said – rightly! – the municipalities need more money, more investment opportunities. They sit on construction projects, could contribute a lot to jobs and economics and sometimes do not get money from banks, so they have a huge liquidity problem. [[Abg. Auer: No, they get it from the bank!]] Not everyone! There are also some who still have this problem. But still: They also need fresh money, they need support in the order of 1 to 2 billion €. That's what it was. Your proposal and it is also our proposal. There is no serious opportunity to put this really good idea somewhere in the context of these budgetary negotiations. But that's not our fault, it's your fault or that of your Minister of Finance. I'm sorry! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A very important argument that we are now waiting for all the budget debate, Mr Federal Minister, is the question of how you want to deal with this huge deficit in the future. Obviously you don't want to put the cards on the table, but rather put the head in the sand. And you obviously also want to give the impression – that always shimmers through – that this deficit, which is also in order from our point of view – one has to invest acyclically now, one has to make a deficit, work anticyclically; yes, to that we confess, has been inherited. Also, acknowledge this deficit and do not always refer to the inherited debts from the past, from the era Kreisky in the 1970s, for that is really ridiculous! Now I'm bringing the sober numbers: At the beginning of the 1980s we had a debt of 27, 28, 29 billion, in this order. This is the inherited debt burden. On the basis of what is now going to change as part of this budget planning by Mr Pröll, public debt will increase from € 180 billion to around € 250 billion, and that is still the lower limit. You can now criticize the economic researchers and beat them because they are constantly revising the forecasts, only: The result simply remains the result you need to manage in your cash register. And it's gonna be more because your budget forecast is still on March. There was the prognosis: minus 2%. However, it is likely that there will be minus 4 percent economic growth. In other words, it is only this year that there are three billion deficits. That's the problem. It is probably less the problem now to talk about the deficit, but one has to look at the debt burden. The biggest problem, however, is if one does not seriously put the cards on the table, how to solve this problem in the future. On the one hand, you refuse to discuss revenue, new revenue, a changed tax structure, you refuse any discussion about what area you want to make brutal savings packages – you should also show a more open way here – and you argue exclusively: Economic growth. Now I'd just like to tell you something: If you want to tackle this deficit, we need economic growth that is moving in the area of Chinese relations. Then we need an economic growth of about 10 percent in addition. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] You're gonna do this to me! I'd like you to tell me that. If you want to achieve the Maastricht deficit alone, you need a growth of 4 to 5 percent in order to get the deficit under control. So: Put the cards on the table and honestly say that will not work. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With regard to the cuts in expenditure: We have now experienced the dispute over CERN. That's 20 million euros, and there it went up and down in the government, that it's just so out! 20 million €! And if you say you want to clean this up on the expenditure side, then I think everyone involved will have a laugh, because that is really not possible! The latter, which is still coming, is the administrative reform as a major over-target. However, the administrative reform is an exclusive heading. There is no concrete measure in the budget, until what is implemented, but there are no working groups, and it is hoped that sometime – and this is optimistic – 2 to 3 billion will come from. That's your concept of the future! This is definitely not enough, and you should finally put the cards on the table and discuss them seriously with us, thereby giving the people pure wine once, as is true with Austria and the Austrian budget, with the Austrian budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One very important point to me, but I think that for everyone in this House is very important: How is it that people who are now double burdened in this crisis because they already have a low income, perhaps become unemployed or have to go into short-time work are getting social assistance? How are they? – There is also a contradiction with your concept. They say: Economics, purchasing power! Although these people are supposed to boost the economy, they cannot. If they are not provided with an increase in unemployment benefit, no higher short-term compensation, nor higher social assistance, they remain below the poverty-risk limit at their level. This is a real evidence of poverty in Austria, also in international comparison. In hardly any other country, unemployed people, social assistance recipients and short-time workers receive as little as we do. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] The net compensation rate is extremely low – in other countries it is not. [[Abg. Head: The real or the formal?]] We want to change that, we want more justice here, so: raise it! By the way, this has always been a major demand of SPÖ. This has always been a classic that has always been carried to and from the 1st-May-placats or in demonstrations by SPÖ politicians, but obviously never been in the briefcase when it comes to government negotiations and talks: an increase in the net replacement rate. The important area you always like to talk about, but from our point of view that is wrong in this budget, is the big investment. We say – and there we see ourselves on a line with many, many experts –: Direct investment in social infrastructure. This means that directly recruiting kindergartens and kindergartens, directly more resources, teachers, directly more caregivers, universities, free kindergartens and so on. Here you fight with the Minister of Education for millions, 100 to 120 million – on the other hand, it is no problem at all to take billions into your hands at the ÖBB, at the AUA or at the banks! Our recommendation to you is still in these budget negotiations: Take the billions in here! In this area of education, social infrastructure, care, health, the billions. That's very important! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And we also need financial resources in another area, and you have obviously completely suppressed this, even though you have worked for years in this area, because you were the Environment Ministers. ==References== January 2008 is the watch – not only the stopwatch, but also the watch. This is about achieving our climate change objectives, and at the moment no one is talking about these climate change targets at all, we will certainly not achieve them. That means, in 2013 another € 2 to 3 billion in penalty payments! You forgot the gas crisis again. You have already forgotten that oil prices have developed in this way. This problem has once been pushed away. And I promise you one: If you are not able to see this crisis now as an opportunity and in the field of energy transition to reduce dependence on oil and gas and so on, the crisis will be much, much bigger then 2015, 2016, 2017. Firstly, we will pay a lot. We will have had jobs swimming down the Danube because we have not invested – take an example of Upper Austria with 15,000 jobs in the field of eco-energy! – and we will have to help in any way those people who face high gas and energy prices. You now have the opportunity to use very different incentives to invest in this area than 100 million in the field of old house renovation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the important areas, you're fighting for millions, and on the other hand, it's about billions. You should turn this view around a little, and you should especially put the cards on the table and not put your head in the sand as far as the budget truth for the next five years is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11797	It now has Mr. Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11820	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I read a quote to you at the beginning of the debate, which was held: 'With all the seriosity, Mr Finanzminister: If you’ve titulated this ‘champfansage to the crisis’, then it was more like a ‘cramp fan’ because we had to wait half a year to wait until you were finally able to present a budget.” Who said that? [[Abg. Bucher: It was me!]] Josef Bucher, yesterday. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Today he goes here and says: Get out of the budget, we don't need anything! [[Abg. Bucher: 2010! 2010!]] What happened to you overnight, Mr. Bucher? I'm asking you that now. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Read more!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Read the whole talk!]] Stay with all the seriosity! Yesterday the budget took you too long – and today you don't want any more. This is an exciting conclusion for what is happening in the opposition series. But I would now like to return to an objective level of the budget debate. There were a number of things that happened yesterday when one was allowed to believe in the media. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... This is no longer for endurance!]] I would like to thank my officials of the Ministry, the officials of the Ministries as a whole for very hard, intensive negotiations, for the preparation – and for a success story that we can present with this budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler, who has a certain degree of nervousness, has said that we need and cannot implement the budget now because the forecasts are uncertain because the issues are constantly changing, a double budget is not possible. Here too, one thing is clear and clear: Budgeted in 2009, now also presented to Parliament in 2010. And you also say: When do we have to negotiate the 2010 budget according to law? Now! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In autumn!]] No. Negotiating now and presenting it in autumn! What is the difference, ladies and gentlemen? Focus on reality and what is! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You say the crisis is over in autumn!]] That's why the double budget makes absolutely sense. There is a clear perspective based on the figures predicted by economic research: 2.2/2.5 percent minus. We budgeted on the basis of the last economic forecast and achieved one thing with this budget: not only in the first two years of 2009/2010, but also in addition with the upper limit of expenditure, we have drawn up a cover in the administration, in the departments, or with the decision-making process. That makes sense! We have built stabilizers to fight the crisis, so to speak, so to speak, to put money against the cycle of the economic crisis. We have also put very openly on the table the deficit and debt planning: 3.6%, 4.7% in the next few years. Every tenth percent is too much, but necessary. If Mr Grastaur comes out here and says that this must not be all, and Mrs Glavischnig says that the debt is too high, but we should spend more on education, I say to you: If you do not want the deficits to assume this level that we are indebted to the future, you must also tell people honestly here that you do not want economic packages for the small and medium-sized economy, you do not want tax relief to combat the crisis. That's the reality! [[Abg. Head: Tax increases!]] Or – the third point – you want to go massively into the tax increase for the broad middle class, as some expect. These are the three options we have put forward in relation to this budget. All three options, i.e. no economic packages, no tax reform and a tax increase at the present time, are hardest counterproductive in the fight against crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I ask you to recognize the realities and see them accordingly. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a second point I would like to address: The European comparison should make us safe. We have significantly better data on the question of European comparison in the area of unemployment – every unemployed person is one too much – than the rest of Europe. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You're twisting everything! Can we finally have a serious debate?- Oh, my God!]] We are on average with inflation. We have a better and a more up-to-date situation with the budget deficits that we have planned, because no other country in the European Union is currently budgeting, but the budgets of the past are high. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What a good thing for an unemployed person!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] We are more up-to-date than all other European countries and also better in terms of both deficit and debt development. We also have a better development in real wages per capita than in Europe as a whole. Europe will overall help us to cope with the crisis, with various parameters, with the stability of the euro. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Abolition of bank secrecy!]] We will ensure that the desire of individuals to rush into the euro area now cannot become reality. I already hear from some parties that one might think here too of a consensus. No, we will not allow the stability of the euro area to be threatened by overcrowded accessions! Secondly, We will organise a European Financial Market Supervision to draw lessons from the crisis and to enable better networked financial market supervision for all financial products in the future. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The banking secret thrown overboard!]] We in the Federal Government have, of course, also taken the right steps as regards the question of the stabilisation of Eastern Europe, with the stability offensive – criticised and smiled by you. I can remember what comments have been made on the occasion of the trip to Central and Eastern Europe. What's the success today? Europe has doubled the funds for stabilizing our future rooms in Central and Eastern Europe from €25 billion to €50 billion! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have criticized the International Monetary Fund, have discussed it intensively in Washington – and the Monetary Fund has corrected its data! He has not followed you with your disaster opinions, but has ultimately put the real data on the table. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have abolished the banking secret! You've been saved!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as far as banking secrecy is concerned, it is also very easy here: The Austrian Banking Act with its § 38 is questioned by no one in Europe. It will remain the banking secret for Austrian citizens in this country. However, with regard to foreign funds, which are parked here, we will allow for a better exchange of information, a better flow of information in the future in the event of concrete suspicions. A wise, a proper procedure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The last point I can understand with all my emotion in view of the budget debate and the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament: We must already be careful that such an important future issue as a double budget, such as the Austrian financial framework by 2012/2013 is not overlaid by topics that are good for emotions, but which are wrong in the matter. Mrs Glavischnig, if you ask: Where are the billions for education? We increase the budget for education compared to BVA 2008 by just under € 1 billion. We significantly increase the internal security budgets as rarely as before compared with 2008 by more than 5.7 percent, and we invest in a thousand new police officers for Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where's that? On which side is this in the budget?]] Don't do all this bad and ready! These are investments in the right policy focus at the right time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: scandalous!]] At the end of my remarks, I would like to say one more thing about this budget and the debate: In connection with this budget, the honourable Member, Mr Grastaur, has, unfortunately, referred to the opposition as a disaster. [[Call the FPÖ: Right!]] Don't harm this country! We are under close observation by international credit rating agencies, which are also concerned with the classification of the country's credit quality. These rely on data, but also look at how data is interpreted, which things are put into space. Whoever speaks of a disaster in this budget lays the foundation stone to the damage of the Republic! [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] And that is, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the data, smooth the wrong way, smooth the wrong signal.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12112	Mr Klubobmann Bucher spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the rules. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12136	Mr Vice-Chancellor did not properly reflect me, at least my speech and opinion yesterday. He has said that I would have demanded that the budget should have been decided much earlier, and that is therefore contrary to what I have called for today, namely to go back to the start. I quote what I said yesterday: "This budget of the ÖVP Finance Minister is not a fight against the crisis, but rather a cramp fanny." And on top of that: “It would have been useful to decide an emergency budget for 2009 already in February and only in autumn the budget for 2010.” Ladies and gentlemen! This is the truth and also the sense of meaning.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12191	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12212	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to come to my coalition colleague Jan Krainer at the beginning of my speech, but he's not here now. I'll put it back, ask, maybe you can get it back. I'd like to tell him if he's there. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are discussing this budget today, I believe, for the second, third or fourth time in a general debate, there will necessarily be repetitions. I believe that the feature of this double budget is that this double budget reflects what all economists, all economic politicians, represent as the biggest challenge of the last eighty to one hundred years. It is a double budget created according to the motto: Fighting the crisis, helping people to strengthen the economy. First of all, it was important to stabilise the financial markets. To this end, we have decided on the famous bank package – not for the banks, but for the small saver whose deposits are to be secured, and especially for those small and medium-sized enterprises that need loans to finance their investments. And we have tied up two huge economic packages: once the medium-sized billions to promote the medium-sized and then a programme to boost investment. Both together amounting to €6 billion. That is, the deficit we show at 3.5 percent would be one of only 1.5 percent if we had not done so. But it would have been irrational in view of this challenge not to put in place these measures, ladies and gentlemen. And this shows that we are quite prepared to do things, too, Mr Westenthaler, who, in part, are, of course, contradicting our baseline in the high economy. In the high economy, we have said that we have to reduce the debt – we have also done so. We also did in the coalition with you. We have dropped the government debt ratio from 68 percent to 59. But now we have a completely different situation. Now we have to take money into our hands. And I'll just talk about what the next big challenge is. We have also tried to do everything we can to strengthen purchasing power. But please let us also leave the church in the village. I asked the Committee on Budgets whether this was the right thing Mr Tumpel said before the demonstration. In fact, he said that 99 percent of a euro income increase would become domestic. In the meantime, we have the figures from the Wifo: Of one euro of additional income, 25 percent will be domestically effective – the rest goes into imports, travel abroad and savings books. That means it's 25 percent. I think it's already a difference whether I'm saying 99 percent are going to be domestic or 25 percent. So my colleague, Mr Tumpel, may this Wifo study lead to contemplation. A second number I would also like to correct because it always comes from the opposition: the famous EU contribution from Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! No question, if we see this purely accountable, then we are, of course, net payers – according to the budget report, 361 million € this year. When we see it economically, we're net winners in the house. [[Abg. Head: Well invested!]] All experts, all economic experts, Mr. Strache, agree that by joining the EU, economic growth per year is 0.3 to 0.4 percent higher than without accession. Over the 15-year period, this means that our GDP, our social product, is now 16 billion higher than without EU accession by EU accession. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. But it's a bad distribution, Mr. Cot.]] We have a tax rate of 40 percent. That is, we only have €6 billion more tax revenue by joining the EU, and we pay €360 million as a net contribution. So a huge economic gain through EU accession. And let us not constantly be led astray by this accounting thinking, we are net payers! We are net winners, home-higher net winners, ladies and gentlemen! Let's stick to the facts and facts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to admit that the fight against crisis was of course a huge challenge. But the likely even greater challenge comes when it comes to financing what was necessary to combat the crisis accordingly. I say quite honestly, that is probably the political challenge. Let us be honest, you can agree much easier on how to spend more money than on where to save something! That means, for me, the political challenge of the next stage is much bigger, and the extent is enormous – let's not think about it! And that will certainly not be the case with tax increases. Even if I totally expropriate the people who are always called – Julius Meinl, the Haselsteiner – our problems would not be solved in any way. This means that we will not solve the problem with tax policy. We must get through to structural reforms on the expenditure side, so painful that will be. I deliberately say: It'll be painful. To believe I can make structural reforms, of which no one notices anything, that is an illusion. [[I should like to congratulate Mrs Gradauer and Dr Fichtenbauer.]] We will also have to save in those areas that are sensitive. But I'll tell you what savings there are: Saving there does not mean saving at the expense of health, saving at the expense of safety, saving at the expense of education, but means using resources for health, for education, for safety efficiently. [[Abg. Strache: But saving at the expense of security you have been living for years!]] I don't know a doctor who doesn't complain about bureaucracy. I don't know any cops who don't complain about bureaucracy. I don't know any teacher who doesn't complain about bureaucracy. There are potential savings, and we will have to use them. Otherwise we will not deal with the problems, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Krainer – he has now arrived – I wanted to tell you face to face with what I am now saying. I don't like to talk about someone when the person is not there. Mr Krainer, I believe it is the essence of democracy that, after elections, a majority change occurs. There may also be new government coalitions. That's what happened in 2000. But that you have a trauma that you draw over years, a black and blue trauma, a black and orange trauma, which is really not necessary. I have to say: What you say time and again, in every speech, negative about these successful years from 2000 to 2007 is incredible. Incredible! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mr Krainer, you ignore all the facts and facts. They forget that for years all of Europe has envied us about this reform course, that the viewed newspaper “Die Welt” in Hamburg once wrote: Austria's success is called Wolfgang Schüssel. You also have a bowl-trauma, Mr Krainer, and I do not know how to solve this, but it can't be that in every speech you're going negatively to these years, which have been successful, where we have brought down the debt ratio, where we have made a policy for which we all admire Europe. [[Abg. Grosz: There are clinics! There's also a health certificate!]] The newspapers have all written: ‘Austria: The better Germany!” – After that they don’t write anymore, Mr. Krainer! So I'd be You really ask, don't ignore the facts and facts, remember, you're now in a coalition with us! And believe as a democrat, it is not a malheur that once your party was not in the government! But that's because once your party wasn't in the government to keep talking bad these years – I'm pretty tired of it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12346	Before I speak to the honourable Member I would like to make a few fundamental comments. We are at the beginning of these long budget debates; I am already watching certain things here throughout the morning. I should really like to invite you to show discipline, to let the speakers speak in some way and to reduce the calls, which are of course part of it, to a degree that a discussion here can be conducted accordingly. That's an appeal to everyone. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tell Mr. Faul!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Did you say this to Mr Faul?]] All of them! Please, Mr Themessl, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12390	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! – It’s still early in the morning, you still have enough time to get upset all day! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor, do you know what happens if you manipulate the fuel display at your car? – Then you won’t get to the finish, and you’ll notice that you’re going out on the track of the Sprit. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: There you may have experience!]] And then there are two ways: The first possibility – and those you prefer –: You sit down, put your head in the sand and wait for what happens. Sometime I'll be They then get more punctual and they will find that nothing has happened and that you just have to do something if you want to get on with it. Then you can get with a lot of effort, with a lot of extra effort and with waiting time and, and, and new spit, so you can continue to drive. That's exactly what this budget is doing. Mr Cap said today in the early days that we are constantly claiming from the opposition that the prognostics are not right. You know, I don't even like the prognostics, I'm telling you numbers. You should have recognized that there are figures that there are facts, for months now, which clearly indicate that there is no reliability of the Wifo numbers or the numbers of the IHS, so the studies that you are ordering and paying for yourself and which cannot vote for the reason. Other economic experts, who exist not only in Austria but also outside Austria in the EU, have already predicted quite different figures, and, of course, due to the facts that have already occurred, a completely different crisis management would have been necessary. Do you know what internationally recognized economic researchers have to say about this government in Austria and about this budget? I can present it to you in a few words: A pitiful crisis management of the Austrian government. Totally overshadowed, unconcealed, and weak in action. That's what the economic researchers who have been right in the last few weeks and months say, that's not the economic researchers you're paying out of the Wifo and the IHS. I don't know why you don't rely on your own staff at the ministry. You have reliable people there, too. If you're pretending to show up again and again during the night, you've forgotten some things. The first signs of this crisis were already recognizable in 2007. ==References== In February 2008, the Exbundeskanzler of the Red Party, Mr. Gusenbauer, pointed out in the press hour that the economic figures will deteriorate dramatically. If you don't believe us and don't believe the other economic experts, I wonder why you didn't believe your own German chancellor at the time, who already warned that the numbers will worsen. Mr Auer, if you stand out here and say that the budget is the policy cast in figures, and if you look at this budget and these figures, then you indirectly admit that it is a miserable policy that you are running here that you are unable to cope with the crisis with these conditions that this budget will provide. A few more numbers why you should have responded. I have already explained to you that the first advances were already recognizable in 2007. In the meantime, the EU Commission admits that the signals have not been registered, and you have not believed your former Federal Chancellor. Now I'll tell you a few more facts. GDP in Germany has already fallen by more than 2% in the fourth quarter of last year. If you know that Germany is one of Austria's most important trading partners today, then you should have responded at the time and should not have listened to the figures of the Wifo. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then I'll tell you a very blatant other number. Already in December 2008, the monthly re-registration of trucks – and the milling industry is the first industry to feel a crisis close to itself, because if nothing is produced, nothing will be transported either – has fallen from 3,000 to 500 in Europe. That means that this was already a 83 percent reduction in December. In January this decline continued and the number of 500 fell again to 350. And you haven't responded because you obviously are not able to even think about what might have an impact. And that's what I blame you for. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you are talking today about the much-quoted crisis management of your government, about the economic packages you attract over and over again, I will tell you one thing: The average billion has not yet arrived where it belongs, and the second economic package does not work. What you have forgotten is to invest much more where it would make sense, namely in our future. They know that 80 percent of the Austrian municipalities have a great need for re-examination in their own buildings, be they kindergartens, schools or similar things. But you also know that 80 percent of these municipalities do not have the money to do this now. They are not able to invest in old house renovation et cetera money, as the greens have already suggested to increase the thermal renovation accordingly. You didn't do all that. However, this would help the regional economy quickly, help immediately, and help to ensure that unemployment may be limited. Mr Finanzminister, you will see first of all in the cash reform, why your figures are not in the back and front, because the contribution payments you have used as revenue here are far too high, because you know that the contribution payments depend on the wages of people, on the wages of the people who work in this Republic. And if you secretly admit that unemployment will increase to 500 000 to 600 000, you know that this revenue page will never and never vote in the payment of contributions. I'll tell you one thing: Mr Bucher is not wrong. The 2010 budget – which we can already forget in 2009 – is to be renegotiated because you will find that the petrol has gone out of you and you are not able to refuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12457	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12478	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! In times of economic crisis, a budget must, of course, provide for measures that can work directly and quickly, ensure economic packages, help to minimise unemployment, strengthen purchasing power – this is done in this budget – but of course it is equally important to take precautions as early as the time of the economic crisis, and to invest in future investments, and – that has already been addressed by previous speakers – to the same extent in the field of education. That's what happens in this budget. I'm with many who say it could be more. I am pleased to see a consensus in the House when we say that we want to do more in the next few years in order to invest accordingly in education, but it must be noted that education policy, investment in the education policy as a whole is one of the main priorities of this budget and is a major investment in the future; Future investment, on the one hand, from the country's point of view in future resources of the country and, equally important, in the individual future of the individual people, even the small children. I am here on a very important point, because investment is being made throughout the course of education, and in the next few years there will be a change in early childhood support, which I believe will be underestimated. in the political debate, which, however, are very, very important in the impact. This is a start, but it will certainly be even more necessary in the next few years. The agreement that has been reached to introduce the mandatory last kindergarten year in Austria from next year on half-day and free of contributions, I believe is a very, very important step, because we – and this has always been my concern in recent years – must begin in the early childhood promotion and can thus set an essential foundation for the future of children. At the federal level, therefore, the important step has been taken to introduce the semi-day, non-compulsory kindergarten year, including in cooperation with the countries in which more is already happening. I'm referring to Vienna. In Vienna it is introduced for the very young, for the zero to six years of the contribution-free all-day kindergarten. This is a pioneer function that Vienna is performing here, and that should accelerate this development manually. Of course, the kindergarten, which is not a storage facility but an educational institution, must also be based on a scientifically developed, well-founded education plan. There are also preparatory work in Vienna on which one can build, and the Minister of Education has this prepared under scientific supervision accordingly for the Austrian kindergartens. The next major construction site in this context is the area of school, a really difficult construction site, where developments do not progress quickly, as many of us would likely wish, I anyway. But very important steps are also being taken here, so to speak, with the aim of reaching European standards also in the area of our schools. European standards, for example, where it is about not even having children at a very, very early age, where the development potential cannot yet be assessed to separate who is allowed to go where. We are far behind what is already the standard in other European countries. The New Secondary School is an important step in this direction, a step that the parents take very well. The universities are provided with additional resources, with a particular focus on securing the collective contract and improving the working conditions of those working at the universities, and on improving the working or study conditions of those learning at the universities, students. The colleges are better equipped. The technical colleges are an expanding area in recent years, which provides a very important vocational training, an important area which we need to expand over the next few years. Research has succeeded in providing more resources. And here too: It is an important step, and in the next few years we must continue along this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12552	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner with a desired speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12573	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Madam President, only in response to your admonition to the Members that they should respect the dignity of the House in the case of interlocutory calls and, I assume, also in the case of speeches, whether this content and the contribution of this dignity are appropriate. I would also like to ask you, Madam President. They also have a role to play in this area, and I believe that it is not entirely in this role of example, if you are sitting here in the first row as the highest representative of this House and laughing, as far as it is concerned, to give the House Faul a call for an order for the incredible derailment which he did yesterday. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is only in all modesty and recognition of your authority as a small suggestion, Madam President. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Don't be so offended about this!]] – No, we are not insulted, Mr colleague, but I expect you to do so, which you always stand here with the raised index finger and say what you must say and what you cannot say. These misdemeanors yesterday by your honourable Member – in whatever state, I am not interested; if he has done so in full consciousness, all the worse – they really do not belong here to the House. This is not the style we want here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There you should go into your group once and not call it down in advance, but in all humility go into clause and set up rules of conduct. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Colleague Auer has rightly criticised the fact that the process at the budget is such a bit a recurring debate, a general debate, and that it should be changed. Yes, only the problem is already, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Minister of Finance, you notice, and I understand that this budget debate here is slowly getting boring. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: (who is with some people on the side outside the government bank) On the contrary!]] On the contrary? Well, unfortunately, we don't have this opportunity to have a coffee wrench. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I am here anyway and listen to the contributions too!]] Yes, but it is not for you to judge Members' contributions here. Now you are here to listen to our assessment of the budget and hopefully also to give proper opinions on it. [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, I thank God again and again, and I thank you for that. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Otherwise it would have been over!]] – No, it wouldn’t have been over, because unfortunately, Mr. Vice-Chancellor... – It’s funny, of course it’s funny. [[Cheerfulness of Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. It's wonderful!]] It's wonderful. I'm just wondering if the people here in Austria find this so funny. They would expect you to make a very dynamic, offensive budgetary policy in the face of the crisis, where you do not make expenditure at the expense of the future, which is not meaningful and not necessary, but that you now use the necessary resources to help people and businesses, really to help, both at national and international level. However, they do not expect You sit here and say: Wonderful! I hope it's over soon. That's the impression you're giving here if I can say it now. You can also type this into your phone, but that's not what we expect from an active federal government, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, if you then criticize our clubman because he says we should take the budget back now, then you know exactly what he meant, because he criticized in several sessions that the 2009 budget has been waiting for so long, and this criticism is absolutely justified. They formed a federal government last year, and it would not have been necessary to wait months for the budget 2009 to be finally decided in May. - That's one. You can blow into the air what you want. I don't know, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I'm really sorry you have to sit there now, but it's also unbearable for us that you always signal us that we're actually going to get you on the nerves. That's really not the style we want here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, on the 2010 budget, you say that we already have to negotiate. Yes, perhaps, but it is an extraordinary situation right now, and then we could have included, of course, the development of the next half-year, until a 2010 budget was adopted, which would have been the case in November or December. We don't know, you don't know, the economic researchers don't know, we really don't know if the crisis is running out in the next half year, what we all hope for, or perhaps even – some fear that if I think only of the credit card bonds in America – another crisis shift comes. In order to cope with this development, it would have been useful to decide on the 2010 budget only in the autumn of this year. Without any polemics, without anything, but I think that would have been a reasonable proposal. There's no need to make fun of Klubobmann Bucher. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, we were also expecting – and this is not a question that costs a lot of money; I referred to it yesterday, and I heard big nicks in your group too – that we are trying to help companies about now in the balance sheets. I mentioned yesterday that there is a problem, especially with companies, that they will have to pay taxes – the corporate tax now for invoices they issued in the previous year – even if they do not receive the money for the open invoices. This concerns hundreds and thousands of businesses. This would be an interesting opportunity – that would cost nothing at all, because companies would be able to get it back next year – a measure to quickly leave small businesses in the cash register, which they urgently need in order to survive the crisis. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or, ladies and gentlemen, Basel II. Mr Auer said that he was criticizing Basel II. – Yes, where is the voice of Austria, the Austrian Minister of Finance and the Austrian Chancellor in the EU bodies, Mr Matznetter, where do you raise the voice that these unwise Basel II regulations are being suspended at least now in the crisis in order to facilitate the way for small businesses to get credit? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Where are these voices? That's what we'd expect. This is not a question of the budget directly, but of a proper policy of action against the crisis. We have already mentioned the tax reform. Mr Krainer here praised this great tax reform and put it in relation to the tax reform of the government of Schüssel/Riess-Passer/Gorbach. Just, Mr. Krainer, you have forgotten that we now have a different situation. The tax relief at that time was a step in the direction that one has said that one wants to significantly reduce the tax and tax rate in a permanent process. Now in a crisis, however, it was about rapidly and massively strengthening the purchasing power of the population. There are 2 billion € absolutely too few, as 6 billion would be the necessary measure. With a 100 billion bank package, 6 billion tax relief would certainly be possible. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If it is said that in the future these funds will be recovered, then we must already be afraid, especially the taxpayers must be afraid, because they will then all pay again. That starts with this rich tax, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. Then who are the rich? Is that for you people who have 3 000, 4000, 5,000 euros a month and then have to return 50 percent of their income to the Minister of Finance? Is someone who has two children and is a single earner a richer for you, ladies and gentlemen? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] These are the service providers, that is the medium class that we now have to relieve. If someone splits up an apartment when someone buys a small property, are these the rich you want to tax again? [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Well, who is it then? That's what you're bringing in here! You want to overthink with this class struggle that you don't have a recipe against the crisis. That is really the reality. That's the problem. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, structural reforms. Now would be the opportunity, wherever you really – I don't want to say the concrete skulls – to the concreteists, for example, in the public Service or in other areas must make it clear that they must refrain from their privileges. The teacher debate pointed exactly in the opposite direction. I am really sluggish about the fact that it is not possible to make clear to a group of people who do not have to worry about the job that they too have to make a contribution. There is no need to talk about administrative reform, about cost savings of €3 billion, as the Court of Auditors pointed out, or about savings potential in the health system, for example, of €3 billion. In the field of investment in education and research, we have now seen the Blamage again, and Mr. Hahn has left you in the rain at CERN. So there's also the chance to say: Yes, we need a structural reform so that we can bring back the money through these savings. – Here too, this federal government has failed. At least it's too little to smile here and say: I am not interested in everything that you are debating, but we now need a federal government that is not at the expense of the workers and that the taxpayers are trying to get through the crisis somehow, but rather to make sure that Austria comes out of this crisis by hand with the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12767	Mr Scheibner, I can only say that yesterday I talked to your clubman Bucher about the situation yesterday. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That you laughed very much yesterday!]] – I admit that I have smiled, and I do not need to justify this. I can only say that many things – and I support what you have said – do not belong here to the High House, a lot. I would also like to forward to you in the future the e-mails which will be transmitted in the course of such a debate, especially when television is there. And that's what's happening to many of you! – I can only hold that at this point. I think we are well advised to hold serious debates here. That was my appeal, and I repeat it at this point. [[In the case of the SPÖ and the Agg. Amon.]] The next point is Mr Wöginger's speech with a desired term of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12812	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Mr Scheibner, you are a recognised Member in this House, and we also very much appreciate you, but the old principle in this House applies once again: The location determines the position. The location determines the position – we know that from your speeches. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How was the vote yesterday? You voted against the accompanying law!]] It is also quite understandable that an opposition criticizes a budget of the Federal Government, but it always applies: The location determines the position. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] [[Call BZÖ: How was the vote yesterday?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You voted against your own Finance Minister!]] This budget has actually been drawn up under the most difficult conditions. We are in a difficult economic situation. Many say that even 1929 is comparable to the current economic and financial situation. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in times like this, it is really about securing jobs and strengthening the economy. It is about maintaining our jobs. This budget is focused on combating the crisis. There are additional resources for the labour market, there are additional resources for education, research, science and development, and there are additional funds for internal security. More than 1,000 police officers, that's a real answer just in times like this. Of course, this also includes – and this should already be mentioned in the context of a general debate today – the economic packages that have been decided: over €3 billion to stimulate the economy to prefer construction projects, for thermal renovation, premature depreciation and so on. In addition, the countries also decide on economic packages, such as the Upper Austria country with over €1 billion, which actively counters this crisis. Plus 16,000 jobs – Mrs Glawischnig mentioned this, and I would like to thank the head of state Pühringer in Upper Austria, who presented this package, which was also unanimously adopted in the Upper Austria Land Day. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: (shaking the head) “Yes”,...!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Of course, the tax reform, which has been decided, is also important in this context, to the extent of €3.2 billion. The aim is to relieve the payers on the one hand and families with children on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand. This tax reform package is aimed at it! And it is already perceived by the citizens if they have a few hundred euros more available in the course of the year, because of the tax reform, because of the changeover to the tariff system. It is now helping people, especially in difficult times, to boost the purchasing power again. 160 000 people fall out of the tax obligation, of which 80 000 are pensioners. We now have a parity: 2.7 million people pay taxes, and 2.7 million people no longer pay taxes. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is nonsense! You know that!]] This is a balance in this system, and this tax reform really deserves your respect and should not be ridiculed here in this House. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The family package – and for this we have acted strongly as ÖVP – also: € 510 million for families with children, an increase in family allowances, a reduction in the amount of children's allowances, an additional € 220 per year of tax exemption per child and the deductibility of child care costs of € 2 300. In this context, I would also like to add the 13th. I would like to mention the family allowance already decided in the previous year, and the Free Kindergarten, which is now being introduced throughout the world. I would also like to mention Upper Austria again: From 2.5 years to the school entrance of the child is free of charge in Upper Austria of the kindergarten. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a milestone in family policy, and it is also to be imitated by other federal states, because the money is well placed there! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Families with children leave most of the money in the country – while on vacation, housebuilding, car shopping. This is the purchasing power we need! Ladies and gentlemen! There is always criticism that too little is or has been made for low incomes. I would like to remind you of two points: Firstly, last year the unemployment insurance contribution was reduced – €300 million, which specifically provided low incomes to stakeholders. And: I would like to mention the 2004/2005 tax reform, which has already been discussed in a downturn. Ladies and gentlemen! The 2004/2005 tax reform was the basis for the economic success of recent years! You have to hold that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: (shaking the head)... correct!]] Mr Matznetter, you need to know exactly: The reduction of corporate tax has secured Austria's economic and work location! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Matznetter, if you know how revenue has developed, you also know that here alone in the field of corporate tax has been tripled from 1.7 to over €6 billion! – That means that was the right way, that was the right action, and that has arrived! We have thus received the highest level of employment in recent years! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] This tax reform is therefore not a bad one! Also with regard to families with children: At the time, child supplements were introduced to the single-earner and single-earner deductions, which are also paid as a negative tax. – Making yourself here today and saying that it has never been done for this area, that is an insult, ladies and gentlemen! I deliberately mention this 2004/2005 tax reform as an absolutely positive example and as a good guide to the fact that we have had this economic upturn in recent years. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] And, of course, what happens in times like this when the budget is drawn up under difficult conditions? – A discussion about new taxes, a “rear tax”. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, who does not like to sing in this choir, which calls for a “rich tax”? Only: Who is she supposed to meet? [[Call to the Greens: The rich!]] For whom is it stimulated? Who's the money from? I quote Mrs Lunacek, who explained quite clearly in the press hour, how she is imagining how to introduce an asset tax. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Did you not understand? You're starting so weird!]] She said, for example, with a homeowner, a home owner with a value of approximately €300 000, 200 000 will be tax-free and 100 000 € will be taxed at 0.5 percent, which is €500. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Quote correctly!]] Do you know, Mr Kogler, what that is? – This is about double the channel fee, which currently pays a four-person budget. We have a channel fee, waste disposal, all these things that are taken into account differently in other countries. We are therefore determined against it, and with us it will not be possible to do so, that we will also tax those who are beneficiaries in Austria with a so-called wealth increase or wealth tax. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] This will not happen with the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Are you at the canal fee?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have to listen to the meaning!]] This budget is the right answer to the crisis. However, after the crisis – whenever it is – it will be important that we save expenditure on the one hand, and it will be important for young people and the succeeding generations to make joint efforts for reforms. I already appeal to you today to think together about how we can implement these reforms. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We've been thinking! Everything is ready for use in the drawer!]] Finally, I would like to thank the Federal Minister for this budget – there is the right answer in times like this – and also for all the staff, and especially for the committee chairman, our colleague, Jakob Auer, who has always held the Presidency as an example. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13083	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13105	Madam President. Federal Minister! Yes, I wanted to follow your advice, Madam President, and briefly address what Mr Jakob said. Aueral's budget speaker said to his group and as the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, because he brought in Basel II here – do nothing! – and the debate has gone a bit unpleasant. [[Abg. Grill: That's unfair! He's not here now!]] I would like to point out that we need to be a little careful about constructive cooperation in the future. Mr Jakob Auer has held out individual groups of the opposition – I am short – and admittedly has been provoked by the fact that in this large implementation of an EU directive – by the way, one could not even really escape, at least if one takes it seriously – the Members of the individual political groups have agreed. That's right, too. And if one reads in the Minutes - I have it here again - what Mr Colleague said in a bold way, then it will be a matter of how long the political groups have been able to achieve something common here. It was all clear that the difficulties in the medium-sized economy in Austria can mean. All of us have had to do with how to weaken it. No one has questioned the EU's requirements. There is much to be said about this, but I may simply quote a sentence from my colleague, who held the presidency in the committee responsible, in which he thanked himself. Quote: “First of all, I would like to thank all those who have cooperated in an incredibly constructive way here, of course, first of all with my colleagues...”, and then he counts all of us, and so on and so on. If this is held up to the individual Members two or three years later, I say Njet! Then let's stop it! [[Abg. Grillic: What? What are you talking about?]] This is not the way to follow the President's appeal. And I'll tell you something: The so-called bank package has all worked hard too. And we still defend most of these points. We do not see the implementation in the regulation as favourable anymore. Here the Federal Minister is sumptuous: There is no quarterly report for the first quarter according to the legislation. The first quarterly report of the previous year, dated 4. Quarter, is not even in the main committee. And we're going to stop with this comfy now when it's always this way. That's not all right! In this way, you cannot deal with the members of the opposition who are closely involved in the budgetary, financial and economic committee – and in their voting behaviour there –, I believe, in the so-called, Madam President, constructive way. Let this be said, for otherwise the attitude will change in this regard! That's quite clear. Let's go on the real subject. – Mr Vice-Kanzler, Federal Minister, you have replicated at Klubobmann Bucher that he cannot say that half a year has been negotiated at the budget, and then today, at the same time, that the budget for 2010 will be decided. - Well, that's where I have to protect him. One has nothing to do with the other. Of course, he may be of the opinion – and I am sure it is – that it is not appropriate to decide on the 2010 budget under such an uncertain forecasting situation. That is why most of the members of the opposition have agreed to this referral intention, and I think that is reasonable. From this point of view, I think double budgets are even more problematic, because one is of course closer and closer to the probably more appropriate forecast. - But be it. We will now no longer refer to it. Let us look at the contents of this budget, about the economic decisions that also affect the budget. Again and again the so-called economic packages are strained here. - Yeah, yeah. The calculations underlying the forecasts of their impact on economic growth – I think about 0.75 percent plus or so – naturally assume in the model calculation that these investments are actually immediately being launched and effected. Unfortunately, we note that in some areas it is not that way – perhaps you can worry us, Federal Minister – because in the area of the BIG or in other areas there is a clear impression, at least for us that these investments, which are now in the room in numbers, do not start to work at the necessary speed, because this has much longer lead times than you might want. But then, of course, the calculation can't be true either. That is why, and now I come to the first counter-proposals, it would be much more reasonable to look at where, in order to address the risk of rising unemployment, it would be more sensible to look at exactly what is needed. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: In the construction industry...!]] Yeah, in the construction industry, it's not that bad anyway. This is an interesting process. Nevertheless, it will, of course, go down. You know the relevant industry writings that come from there. And then, if it were so, we would still not be too late to make the following proposal, namely that, in time, even the communities that cannot help themselves because they do not have the appropriate financial resources, we would be able to put investment in certain projects that are already in the pipeline, and should also be able to invest. This will, of course, require a criterion so that not only current expenditure is increased, of which one will not come down later, and so that not the fourth leisure hall will be built somewhere. But I think such a criterion should be met. With this proposal we are not alone, even the Economic Research Institute has already made similar considerations at the beginning of the crisis. And I believe that many, thousands of ÖVP citizens' champions, Mr. Federal Minister, would be grateful to you for this. And that's not a call for money outpouring, that's just a consideration of how one could actually bring these billions that you claimed to be so great in these economic packages. As to the question of how history will continue from 2010, 2011, 2012 – and that is probably the most exciting – you have not changed your figures, either in the Financial Framework Act or in the Strategy Report. You are still guilty again today of the answer to the question, such as the budget deficits – well, Mr Vice-Chancellor; who else? [[Call the ÖVP: Who?]] – can be transferred in the future or can not arise at all in this height. If I understand you correctly, say by silence: Well, now it's not going to talk about it, and somehow that's gonna have to be it. – In your strategy report, the deficits are 4.7 percent by 2012. In reality, it will probably go beyond 5 percent. That's more than €15 billion per year! What's going to happen? With the administrative reform alone, even if it would be able to get here overnight – which is illusory anyway – it will not be possible. Proposo of ‘re-getting overnight’: If you even question a single bed somewhere at some hospital, by the way also in the Styria, do you know who the first are in the front of the demonstration train? – The liberals anyway, but also ÖVP politicians, because it still fits regionally politically into the business. [[Abg. Grill: The Greens!]] Because of each single bed, instead of giving up what you are constantly promoting, at least a few proposals are being made by the Court of Auditors to make the structures more efficient. But it is only today that the Styrian ÖVP will go back to fighting everything, which is somehow only reasonably proposed. That's how it's going to be in reality. And then the same ÖVP will tell us that the administrative reform will ever succeed?- Oh, my God! Even if we were to implement most of the proposals here, we would only – I fear so – be able to reach a few billion. But You need to do more! However, they do not say how it is. It can only give more than two alternatives or a mix of them, if this is lost: Either extreme savings packages, not to say “shrink packages”, or something has to happen on the revenue side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] If you plan savings packages, tell me where and how! – But you can’t say that now, because now is crisis! Do you believe that you will increase the credibility of politics in this way? – This is at least such a problem as the lack of confidence among economic operators at the moment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second way out is to stop – you're not going to get around it, we're all going to experience it here – that we also have to do something about taxes, taxes and fees. If you want to continue the path of gratifying and smiling, this may be a psychological variant. Only: Psychology also requires you to believe something else. But that's where you played! If you've already been playful, you're finally saying what you're planning, and don't stop Parliament with a strategy report that says wrong numbers!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13216	Mr Matznetter has now come to speak. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13238	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! I would first like to refer to the comments made by Mr Kogler. It is quite right what he said for the treatment of Basel II at the time. This was a constructive cooperation, and I can only underline at this point the following: I'm sorry that Jacob. Auer here – in my opinion really wrong – criticises a position that no one represented in this House at the time. It was clear to us that this is a bad regulation, because it is driving the traditional banking business exactly in the direction of the market situation that is now becoming aware of us in the crisis as one of the worst causes, namely that a credit behind the switch is packed in other packages, in CDS, in ABS and thus speculated in consequence, and we find the present situation. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this sense, this House has acted correctly, we have only implemented the minimum level and have tried to make it law only what we had to do through the directive. But there was already a person who could have done something. That is what Mr Scheibner said at this point, without having to make an actual correction to the honourable Member's estimate. It was a person who had the power to hold back the application of the directive at the time: The Minister of Finance called Karl-Heinz Grasser at that time. You, Mr Scheibner, were as Minister of Defence in the Federal Government; it was a unanimous decision, and it would not have been in the form of a regulation, but it has fit into the concept, ladies and gentlemen! This was a policy that wanted to strengthen exactly those who are running speculations on the markets rather than making real investments. That was visible in your tax policy at your time. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] You have abolished the investment benefits when investment is made in Austrian companies in the country, and you have heated up the mood in the direction of mergers and acquisitions with the group taxation and other methods. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let's see our colleague Wöginger. Let's start right now! Why do I have to defend the sound policy of the ÖVP Finance Minister here? What is the “smear” it is, the change of course, which shows visible successes – then tax policy under a blue finance minister: Austria is only in the EU's middle in terms of unemployment, poorer growth than the EU-15 average – to defend? [[Abg. Petzner: Record unemployment!]] Today – as Vice-Chanceller Pröll rightly pointed out – we are among the best in unemployment, that is, we have a clear advantage over the others. The crisis is not that strong in us. We are growing, saying shrinking, much better than then. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We have taken a reasonable measure, because the Austrian People's Party itself, which wanted to re-elect a year ago, when the then Federal Chancellor wanted to make a tax reform in 2009, did the right thing. She said: Yes, this project is good. – Today it is rightly applied Her party observer Josef Pröll in the newspaper with photo and signature. That's right! It is good to create in the broad purchasing power, it is right to do it now, it is right that we have now introduced premature depreciation to give investment benefits again, and we correct what was done wrong by the Lord, who at the time between the yacht holidays with Flöttl and Meinl, which would be favourable to these circles in the law. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Flöttl? ...!]] – Exactly: The Lord Flöttl, the Lord Meinl and the Lord Grasser were on the hunt. By this policy correction, we are now reaping the fruits. We have less impact on the crisis, we have a better situation, even with regard to the budget. That's where the comparison makes sure. [[Abg. Petzner: Do you know what you're talking about?]] Who put together more than 4 percent deficit in the high economy? – Karl-Heinz Grasser! [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Do you have a grass complex?]] It was Vice-Chancellian Molterer who managed – now I have to defend the ÖVP again; there is the praise of the policy of Molterer and Pröll – to reduce the deficit from 1.6 percent to 0.4 percent within two years, so that we now have room for this difficult time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Do you have a grass complex?]] This is the right policy, ladies and gentlemen – do not lower the peak tax rate, Mr Bartenstein, and not promote the speculators! I say again at this point: It is a matter of course and the right policy when the Members of this House are close to it, because it is a good policy that we are doing together. I can also recommend to those colleagues from Upper Austria that all government decisions be taken, to make them better than yesterday, because we are now on the way to making the best fight against them in Europe as far as unemployment is concerned. We create mass purchasing power, we have a tax reform, from which 90 percent of the volume goes to the width of the population, up to an income of €4,000 per month – quite contrary to the tax reform which the Scheibner colleague has praised, where the large corporations and speculators have received the money. That's the right policy: We have introduced allowances instead of a split rate for family taxation, we have increased family allowances and child supplements. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: That's absurd!]] That's a real policy we're making! He is right, Minister of Finance Sepp Pröll, when he says in the newspaper that this is the right measure at the right time. A right decision of this government, a right decision of the Vice-Cancellor and no occasion... – Exactly, applause for the Vice-Cancellor because of this policy! [[Demonstrative applause by Mr Rädler and Mr Wöginger.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Koseform: Sepp!]] But let's get to the second problem! In this country – and now I deliberately do not take others out – we have actually believed, with heatings of this nearly 30-year-old bubble, to subject everything to the financial markets, to do the right thing, and we have contributed to the crisis. I would ask you, at this point, to put reasonableness and meanness back into focus in politics as well as the application of it. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: “moderate” – correctly mentioned!]] This means measures not only for the top earners and millionaires. The question was asked, Mr Bartenstein, who are those who could make a contribution. I think you asked this question. We have enough millionaires in the country. Do you want me to tell you a few things that might fall below that? For example, the long-standing third President of the National Council Prinzhorn has enough wealth that could easily pay a little more. Mr Julius Meinl can transfer 100 million € privately to a court account in five minutes. He might also be able to afford something more. Let us look at this, and as in the debate on tax policy, we will jointly find a corresponding policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: You want to scrape the house builders!]] I think we've made a good policy together for the last two years. I believe that we have a good budget and a good tax reform and that the way is right. The current performance already shows us: We are much better than in previous years than in other countries. And I believe that the ÖVP is well advised to praise itself, now that it presents itself to the Minister of Finance with a better policy, instead of leaving these tasks to other parties such as the FPÖ or the BZÖ, where we find out what we have experienced under Karl-Heinz Grasser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13461	Mr Ddr. Königshofer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13483	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! “Quidquid agis, prudenter agas et respice finem” – “Whatever you do, do it wisely and remember the end!” [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Si tacuisses, philosopher mannisisses!]] From this point of view, budgetary policy should actually be made everywhere in the world and at any time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are certain that the biggest and worst economic crisis that has ever occurred in this world will come to us. I also tell you why: because there are uncertainties that we have not yet known in the past. Let me give you an example: The world economy is intertwined, is intertwined. Remember China! There are about 150 million migrant workers in China alone. These are Taglohner who sells their labour day after day, as Karl Marx has already described in his book “The Capital”. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: That's not true!]] Take a look at the chapter “Theory of Verelungs”! Of these 150 million employees, 30 million are currently unemployed. When you think about it, if only 1 percent of these 30 million, i.e. 300,000 people, come to the idea of gathering themselves in a protest march and marching to a larger city like Shanghai or Beijing, I don't know what this can cause in this powder vessel China, which in turn can fall back on our continent, on our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask myself, from these points of view, where the EU's protective wall was in the face of this global economic crisis. I don't see anyone! The EU has docked Europe to this US economy. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That makes at least a few reasonable rules!]] She has watched how our municipalities and our federal railways have drawn credit default swaps. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The EU has watched as risky speculation operations have been completed, it has had no objection. There is no EU financial market surveillance, there is no EU banking control. The EU has so far promoted and not prevented or restrained all that is happening to us today. Nor should we, Professor, because you are laughing, be subject to the wrong conclusion that it would be just a financial crisis that has been flooded into the real economy. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen]] No, no, no, Two crises, namely the crisis of the financial economy and the crisis of the real economy, have come together. Look at the automotive industry in the USA! It would now be slid into the pleite – with or without a financial crisis. That's the truth! And the financial crisis is promoting the crisis of the real economy because companies now have fewer opportunities to operate on the capital market or to finance on the credit market. But in Europe, I do not see any counter-movement on the part of the EU at the moment; individual countries alone are trying to counter national programmes, including Austria. But what about European politicians, such as Angela Merkel or Nicolas Sarkozy, who salute in front of every gum machine in America's loudness? [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] That's the truth. Ladies and gentlemen! The real tragedy of this budgetary policy lies in further indebtedness. In 2008, we have total financial debt of €162 billion, which is around 238 percent debt, as measured by the government's revenue. So if you convert this or if you go into the business calculation, then it is 2.4 years of theoretical decommissioning. To shorten it: Debts will increase by 2011. If you add the debt of the ÖBB, the debt of the ASFINAG and those of the bank rescue package that could be beaten, these debts will rise to around €300 billion. That will be about 500 percent of government revenue. And if you want to reduce these debts by about €3 billion annually, you will repay these debts for 100 years without making a budget deficit for a single year. 100 years You pay for it, and that's the real tragedy! Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore ask you: Activities Now you're like a troubleshooter in an insolvency-threatening operation! I do not want to come back to Mr Krugman now, I just tell you that there are many measures you can take. Pull off our soldiers from Chad immediately! This commitment costs €50 million annually. Sale Without delay, you'll have these crazy catchers where the flight time of a plane costs more than the wage for a soldier for a whole year! Decrease You will immediately receive the extremely high EU contributions, the net contributions from € 800 million to € 400 million! [[Abg. Großruck: Make peace immediately worldwide!]] Stop this hundred thousand-fold misuse of the e-card immediately! Reorganise the administration in federal, state and social security, ladies and gentlemen! Then you'll get on the right path. Concentrate all funds on the use in our country! Only when Austria is back on economically healthy legs can we take on international commitments again. In this sense, I ask you to: Throw this budget proposal, which builds on false premise, overboard! Make a new budget that builds on realistic foundations, then you can create a good future for Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13607	Mr Principality is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13628	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Königshofer, in the last part of your remarks you cannot have talked about Austria, because then you would have spoken of a banana republic as you have described it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: That's incredible!]] The double budget 2009/2010 stands at two angles. On the one hand, as a result of the current economic and financial crisis and its impact, the government budget is put in quite a state of distress, and on the other hand, the new budgetary law applies for the first time. Due to the financial and economic precarious situation, the state is forced to intervene in a stabilising manner. For example, Austria has implemented this with a total of more than €6 billion or more than 2 percent of GDP by means of a bank package, economic economy package 1 and 2, scrapping premium, tax reform, including family package. The extension of the short-term work regime, increased funding for active labour market policies, the improvement of pension increases, more money for security in the form of more personnel in the police, up to 2013 € 1 billion more for education and additional expenditure on research and development, all of which are important measures to get out of the crisis. As a result of the global financial crisis, unemployment is likely to increase even further. Lower tax revenue and social security contributions, higher expenditure on financing unemployment, passive and active measures to combat the crisis required record deficits. Austria, like most European countries, will not fulfil the Maastricht criteria. The debt ratio is rising, there's nothing to beautify. But an extraordinary situation also requires extraordinary measures. Due to the good economic performance in recent years, it will be possible to maintain the added burden on future generations in some way always in view of this crisis situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the development of the agricultural and environmental budget for the years 2009 and 2010, Federal Minister Berlakovich succeeded in ensuring the financing of important work priorities for rural families such as compensation. It will be divided on the one hand in areas such as bureaucracy and administration, but on the other hand it will ensure comprehensive consultation on chambers and associations. Another focus in the agricultural budget is the protection against natural hazards. As a result, additional resources could be budgeted for flood protection. The existing resources can be used to collect all the funding provided from Brussels. It is also important in this context that co-financing is ensured. The rural development programme for the period 2007 to 2013 includes many valuable initiatives, including the compensation allowance for mountain areas and disadvantaged areas, the environmental programme, investment promotion, the LEADER regional development programme and so on. In many areas, there is a combination of EU funds, federal funds and national funds. It is noteworthy that in some federal states, where there is no EDP head of state, these funds are often questioned. It is positive that the additional resources available from the modulation area of rural development may, for example, be used for the future dairy cow premium. At this point, it should be stressed that there is a service for society behind every public euro, whether it be services for the cultural landscape, for the diversity of rural areas or for tourism. At each workplace in agriculture and forestry, there are three jobs in the sub-sector or downstream. Our agricultural agriculture is therefore an important part of the whole economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, for us farmers there is a clear order in the task: to produce first food, to produce second feed for our animals in the stables and thirdly to produce energy production. In view of this priority series, it is not necessary to make constant allusions to agriculture by accusing that higher food prices are due to energy production. There is enough evidence that energy production is an essential factor for the future. The improvement of home food labelling is an important issue for the future. We must finally end the label gap, which currently exists in part. Dioxin scandal in pig meat or, for example, the “polluted milk in China”, such things are quite in our ears, but the current seal of quality, such as AMA seal, organic seal and regional mark of origin, gives security. The targeted purchase of domestic food is quite a job engine, yes, it is actually a good economic package where every household can contribute something. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Daily purchasing, ladies and gentlemen, is a vote for domestic jobs or against jobs, for domestic value added or against regional purchasing power, not to mention regional additional benefits climate protection. It is therefore important to improve food labelling, to make consumers more transparent. All the social partners are required to cooperate here: Agriculture, the economy and the Chamber of Labour. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we could talk about energy production for a long time, but one thing is clear: It is an important factor for the future, and there are enough land potentials for this in Austria and Europe. We do not need to import ethanol from Brazil in order to add biosprit. If it is produced in Austria or in Europe, the ecological balance is right, and we will need this valve as a farmer in the future massively. Energy and renewable energy, with many possibilities, will become important for the future. Austria has ambitious targets regarding renewable energy. The two Federal Ministers Berlakovich and Mitterlehner will develop a strategy to be able to continue successfully. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The double budget presented by Federal Minister Pröll, our entire government team, 2009/2010, provides a good basis for forward-looking policies for people in our viable and kind home of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13704	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13725	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Faul is not in the hall, because I wanted to ask him how his pet is going today, which he is probably feeding right now, namely the "kater", but unfortunately he is not here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I have to say: You have already taken a first step to improving the SPÖ, because today you have given him a ban on speaking. Although more than 100 speakers have been spoken, the name Faul is not included. Congratulations, first way to improve! If you still manage to keep Faul away from the canteen in the afternoon, then everything is fine, then nothing will happen either. [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I also wanted to say something to my colleagues Matznetter and Krainer, who are not here, because they are always going after they have talked here: You have something like a persecution phobia as far as Grasser is concerned. You can only hear how bad everything was under Minister of Finance Grasser. This will obviously follow you to the pension. You will also talk about the Trauma Grasser in the guest house. I think this is quite therapeutic. I really believe anything to do with it. Seek professional help! [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] But now I want to talk to the budget. I would also like to praise someone from another group. [[Abg. Faul is just entering the meeting room.]] [[Abg. Bucher: The Faul has just come in!]] There he is, Mr. Faul. Say hello to God! – Mr Wöginger not only spoke well today – he also praised our joint tax reform from the beginning of the 2000s – but he was also very courageous and voted against the budget accompanying laws yesterday as one of four ÖVP delegates. We also want to congratulate warmly on this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You're actually one of our allies! You've recognized this right. Who, if not an ÖVP delegate, should realize that the path of his Minister of Finance is bad and wrong? That is also to be congratulated. I have already said at the first budget debate that the budget is not a fight against the crisis, the crisis will not be afraid, and so was it. In fact, what is present today is totally obsolete. We have already said that the referral request of our clubman was not only correct in terms of content but also factually justified. A little bit of the budget seems to me like a lottery budget. You should present this on Sunday at 7.15 p.m. in the ORF, which is suitable for the show. Only: I think the six right ones are easier to guess than the budget figures of the Minister of Finance, because they change hourly, yes, at once. We now have wrong basic figures on which the budget is built. We have deficits that no longer vote. We have wrong growth forecasts on which the budget is built. The budget's broken, you can only say! It doesn't work anymore. It doesn't hold anymore. It is also shot by some experts by the sun and the moon. Nor is there any innovation in it – a visionlessness special! The only thing that is really new to this budget is the fact that after the SPÖ, which we have known for decades, the ÖVP has now also been immersed in the shadows of a debt party. This is sad, because I can remember that Mr. Financier went out stupidly with many, many budget debates and here he has always said from this speaker's point of view: We're not making new debts, that's the worst thing there is! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Now I already know that you have to take money into your hands in the crisis, we are for it anyway, but the question is: Where, then, are counter-financing in the form of reforms? Where's the red tape? Where is the administrative reform? Where is the health reform? Where is the educational reform? You missed it all. That's what we criticize in debt! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At the same time, the pressure screw continues to be turned, and I am surprised that the union has not been active for a long time, namely Mr Haberzettl and how you are all sitting here. Mr Haberzettl, who is speaking to you here with Mr Faul – who is still sitting there, but who can change during the afternoon and evening – where is the union's call for this budget in which the tax screw is turned on? If you don't believe us, I understand that, but if you can read news in newspapers such as this “From 1000 € stay only 512 € pay left”, then it would have to click with you, you would have to think about it and not just go on demonstrating, then you would have to say: [[Keeping a newspaper high]] There's something wrong with the loads! If workers now remain of € 1,000 only € 512, if they earn so much at all, then something is wrong. If the real tax rate is not 42 percent, but already 49 percent, then something can't be true, then you have to think about it. And then that which has boldly admitted, namely that Austria is a highest tax state, is already reality. You could have corrected that in this budget. You would have been able to work for better wages, for more money for the workers, Ladies and gentlemen of the union. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another point, just by the way – unfortunately, the Minister of Finance is no longer here now – is because it is noticeable, a point that also has to do with burdens. Mr Financiary State Secretary – who is also gone, but Mr Ostermayer is still here, I believe, Media or Propaganda State Secretary – perhaps you can inform the Minister of Finance: It's incredible what's happening at the petrol price front. Every time there is a long weekend or a holiday, the fuel price is lifted up from the mineral oil companies, so that it only changes. ==References== May was so, before Easter holidays it was, and now again. Now there is a holiday again, and the fuel prices are being raised. Do you know what's going on? The petrol price in Rotterdam fell by 56 percent compared to last year. Do you know how much the petrol price has fallen in Austria? – 42 percent! There are 14 percentage points missing, and the mineral oil companies are making a wonderful basket money. Mr Financiary Minister, Mr State Secretary, take you there once in the mineral oil companies so that people don't have to pay such a high spray price! That's done once. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Next Topic: Security policy. – It is constantly explained to people that there will be a thousand more police officers. I would like to ask you, Mr State Secretary and Minister of Finance, please show me that page in the budget on which this stands. I didn't find it, I'm sorry. But you can't find that either, because it's not inside. It's not in the establishment plan, and it's not the budget figures either. And the police union makes it clear that this is not eligible for funding at all. It's not in the budget. So do not spread falsehoods! There are neither 1,000 more police officers nor 500 more police officers, but there are no longer any police officers at all, because the few who are now coming into new training will not be left with any natural endings in the end. So there is only less security and more crime. This is the result of this budget, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Krainer, you have praised all of this about the green clover and you mean how great it is. Now the SPÖ is in power again, and everything is fine: The budget is great. Her policy has taken a turn. It's all right. A social balance is created. – I told you yesterday that this is not happening anywhere in view of a million people in poverty. I'm just asking you: If that's all so great what you're doing, and if you're making such a great policy, why isn't that important? You lost the National Council election. You lost two country elections sensational and disastrous. But you've lost the Chamber of Labour election. You are in front of a disaster at the EU election and a disaster at the Vienna election – and you are making yourself here with such muscles! I'm really wondering: Do you remember the reality? Do you know how people are doing, what matters to people, that people really are not doing well? You're losing all the elections. It gives the nomination of the EU Commissioner to the ÖVP. She's looking at how the Minister of Education is being disassembled. – By the way, it's one thing I hear from Klubobmann's head. A wonderful statement: It's one too one! There is a happy ministerial disassembly between the government parties. At present, it's one by one. Who's next? Where's it going? Is the SPÖ coming back now? Is a black minister being disassembled again, or vice versa? – It’s actually amazing what’s happening there! You have a revolt at your own base. You need to keep talking about a rich tax that you can't explain yourself, because such a tax actually doesn't do anything. You're in high debt. You have a record deficit. – So, in reality, what you have is a scorching pile, and that after just a few months of government participation. I really have to say that although I do not like and do not like the “profile” editor Christian Rainer often, but in this case he is very right when he writes – I quote literally – “ Werner Faymann threatens to become a climate. Deflavored. A comrade of glosses.” – Quotes. I congratulate the Social Democrats: After half a year you've been enchanted and you're already away from the window!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13875	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13897	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! In times of economic crisis, action is needed in particular to help those people who are particularly affected by the crisis, and these are the workers and their families. Yesterday, under the budget accompanying law, we took first steps to improve the financial situation of the health insurance companies. It is also clear from this budget that we are all committed to tackling the world economic crisis and, above all, to combating unemployment in Austria. I'm very, very proud of that. And I should like to thank you very much, especially Mr Hundstorfer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The funds for active labour market policy, ladies and gentlemen, were already very high in 2008. At that time it was €853 million. In 2009, more than EUR 1 billion is planned. If you add €220 million of support for short-time work and the European Social Fund funds, you will find about €1.3 billion for this area. Who benefits from this money now, and what will be done with this money? – In the field of labour market policy, training, training and employment programmes are mainly discussed. Training and qualification measures are particularly important for the following reasons – one can put it to the point –: Unfortunately, if people have only one compulsory schooling, this means that the risk of getting into unemployment and then not being able to get back into the work process quickly is a very big one. Therefore, training measures are offered specifically to ensure that this group of workers will be able to re-enter the opportunity to enter the active work process. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is, ladies and gentlemen, this federal government is giving people security and opportunities in the crisis. We try to make the most of it, and create opportunities to use the time when you do not have active employment in the labour market for post-qualification and re-qualification, in order to be fit for work again. Let me also make a few comments on the subject of short-time work. – We have recently flexibilised the short-term work regulations with the Employment Promotion Act and also created opportunities for over-company qualification. Present – Status: 16. May 2009 – 293 companies on short work, and 54 700 employees are in short work. This number is undoubtedly no reason to rejoice. However, I am so glad that we have changed the short-term working arrangements because it ensures that even if the economy is better again, the highly qualified staff are at the disposal of the companies and can be started accordingly. It is still better for people to be in short-time jobs than unemployed, because this continues to allow for the connection to the farm. In addition, it is a matter of short work – you can put it to the point: 3.4 Short-term employment costs as much as a unemployed person – much more people can help. Some comments on the AMS as well. – I think we can all thank the employees in the AMS very much, because they have done highly qualified work and are trying to do the best for the people who are looking for work. In order to improve their work, more employees will be employed in the AMS in the future. It is planned that 200 new employees will be employed in the AMS. This is, on the one hand, a measure against unemployment and, on the other hand, a measure aimed at helping to provide even more solid and more targeted assistance to workers seeking work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to draw attention to another point that seems particularly important to me. I referred to yesterday that specific measures are being taken to combat unemployment, especially in the case of young people. Similarly, specific measures are being taken to make it easier for women to get back into work after a baby break. Further targeted measures are intended to ensure, by re-qualification and post-qualification, that the labour market is merged, so to speak. We still have a separate labour market, and this is exactly where a focus is placed to make a contribution to minimizing wage and income differences between men and women. Summa summarum: A good budget. Thank you very much. Our group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13970	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13991	Mr President. It would have been a real sensation, Mrs Csörgits, if you had now said that you did not agree to the budget. [[Abg. Csörgits: I wanted to surprise you!]] Mr Königshofer, I found that very encouraging, as you have said. So, first of all, I congratulate you on your Latin – German isn't everything! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I fully agree with your comments on General Motors. However, I found it quite strange how you scratched the curve from the financial crisis to the usual EU shell. Of course, the EU was not a shield against the outbreak – or whatever you want to call it – of the financial crisis. It does not have the instruments either. If you had expected the EU to pull the lines in time for banks, shadow banks and other institutions, we should have equipped the EU with these instruments. Who has fought against such a thing as European banking supervision over the years, a European financial market surveillance system? – These were the Member States, which were the Finance Ministers of each Member State of the EU! Now to come and say: [[Call the SPÖ:Grasser!]] The EU was not a shield!, of course, is an attack on the policies of the EU Member States in the past – including, I assume, the positions of the FPÖ, which never wanted European banking and financial market surveillance. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So if you want to have that, go with us and work for a deepening of the European Union, and especially in this area! Of course, one can continue to do this with the question: Has the European Commission set up initiatives in good time or not? – I say: No, no, no, And that is one of the reasons why I am not for the re-election of President Barroso. However, in all these years, President Barroso has not even shown a spark of political leadership at European level – unlike Neelie Kroes, the EU Competition Commissioner, who is responsible for the internal market. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] If we had not had this lady in the EU Commission, do not ask how the Member States of the Union would have misused the banking crisis one by one, in order to provide “their” – under quotations – competitive advantages to each bank. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] It is only the EU Commission that ensures at European level that the crisis is not abused that the French support their banks at the expense of those of the Germans who charge them to those of the Austrians and so on and so on. The EU and the USA – let's leave the gum machines away now; the Iraq war, that's anything but a chewing rubber machine –: [[Abg. Graubur: He was good!]] Mr Königshofer, if you are of the opinion, and I would share this view that it would not be a pity that the European Union should have a little greater scope for action, say we should have a little greater autonomy towards the US policy, regardless of the person of the President of the USA, what will we do then? By the way, it bothered me a little in the European jubilation about the new administration, saying: Now it's all going to be wont and grievances again! – If the European well-being depends on the concrete person, Bush or Obama, President of the USA, then something is probably wrong with our self-confidence! But, Mr. Königshofer – and now it comes! – if we both want these, and I want them to be sure, what are we doing for this additional autonomy in Europe towards the US? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] – Then there is only one way: to further deepen the European Union, to strengthen its instruments! – Israel?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: To deepen, but not to expand with Turkey and Israel!]] It's coming back now! Mr President, we must solve the problems of the next ten years, not the ones of the year 2200. [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Worm.]] Okay, to the budget: This contains a substantial innovation, namely the Financial Framework Act. In principle, this is a very good thing that forces the federal government to look forward to four or five years and to present a corresponding strategy report. It must not be surprising that this is still associated with the corresponding childhood diseases. Nevertheless, I recommend reading the strategy report and reading it between the lines: What the individual resorts understand in planning up to 2012, 2013 mocks in part of each description! So obviously there is a need for training on the part of the Ministry of Finance, how to make sense of such strategy planning. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, exactly!]] – However: Who's training the Ministry of Finance? A strategy of the Ministry of Finance is missing in key points! I come back to what Eva Glavischnig and Werner Kogler have already said: We need a strategy to deal with the crisis that is inevitable to us after the banking and financial crisis, the real economy crisis, and that is the budgetary consolidation crisis. There is nothing about this in the strategy report and about it, Minister of Finance Pröll refuses to discuss it and especially the ÖVP. Forget the percentages, look at the billions! The financial debt of the Republic rises from around €180 billion today to around €250 billion in 2013. – These are the official figures in the strategy report of the Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Bundesbahnen and ASFINAG!]] How much interest will this require in 2013? – Today or last year we have paid about €7 billion in interest, and in 2013, that is, the strategy report, it will be around €10 billion in interest. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Ten!]] Now you only need to calculate the following. Okay, the Ministry of Finance obviously calculates at 4 percent interest – 4 percent of 250 are then 10 billion. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Königshofer]] 4 percent interest, which is even a little less, a touch less than in 2008. Constant interest rates in this period? – For this there is no reason! [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] Also in the Wifo report of March, which is based on similar figures, there is no reason for this adoption! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. We don't know, but what's more plausible: that interest increases or that they fall? Look, there has never been a crisis of this kind in which all industrialized countries – all industrialized countries: European, American, Japan and what I know – will be able to go to markets with huge credit demand. We have only 5 percent deficit, let's say, the British expect 10 percent, which is even higher from Ireland, regarding the USA, I read 13 percent budget deficit in the media. – That must be financed! This is all a credit demand on the markets! And this will be financed at constant interest rates if the risks increase? – In the UK, for example, from January to today the interest rate for what we call federal bonds has risen by one percentage point – in these three, four months! Perhaps there is a risk of exchange rate risks, which would at least be unlikely at present in Austria and in the case of the euro, but there are plenty of reasons why interest rates will not remain constant. Mr Amon, the banks around the world have a huge recapitalisation problem. They will be under considerable pressure – reform of banking supervision from time to time – to obtain additional equity. Where do they pick it up? In the financial markets! In that case as equity and not as a bond, but the money does not have a mesh. In other words, once we expect “ fun” – under quotation marks – only with 6 percent interest: However, 6 percent of 250 would already be €15 billion interest, not 10 billion, that is, an additional 8 billion to today's interest payments. In the situation, however, it is necessary to break our heads over what we are doing in four years' time, that is not so long up to then, on the expenditure side. [[Abg. May. Kogler: (in the direction of the Abg. Grillitic) Grillitsch goes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: That's too much for him!]] - Okay, what? And on the revenue side? – I just don’t think that the expenditure page will be enough on its own, but please, I’m ready to discuss it. I'll give you a tip: School Schwanenstadt, a very nice example. This was an old school, built in the 1970s, with appropriate energy standards; now it was renovated and brought to passive house standard with the consequence of a 90 percent reduction in current energy costs. Why does this work in Schwanenstadt and otherwise not? [[Abg. Großruck: Because the head of state is called Pühringer!]] – Because we know a problem over the decades and have never dealt with it: The municipalities pay the maintenance or the operation including energy costs, and the construction represents the country or the federal government. They do not want to pay the 10 percent or 15 percent that the passive house standard costs, and therefore the municipality has the worse end for itself. Yes, in God's name, when will we finally solve this problem? – I was a member of an Administrative Reform Commission 30 years ago. [[Deputies Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek and Bucher: Before 30?- Oh, my God!]] – 30 years ago! At the time, the Commission came out about as much as it did in all the following Commissions, and it is now time that I had a negative experience of 30 years ago. Better education! [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Amon.]] – I know I’m out of my time, but that’s still important to me. Yesterday, very late in the evening, our third president, with his help, Mr Rosenkranz, offered a remarkable performance. You have to imagine what happened. You may not have heard all the calls and remarks I had the pleasure of hearing, because I am sitting behind Mr Graf, our third President. The third President complains of a colleague from this House, in this case Harald Walser, but we call this Member, the defendant, simply “Otto”, because that could in principle meet anyone; that makes no one feel affected. Reason or no reason, the history was as follows: The third president suspenses a MP “Otto”, the prosecutor routinely submits a so-called extradition desire, the third president voting against extradition. – Is this already scurry enough, because our third president is a lawyer, he should know from the outset how such a thing goes. But the real “highlight” of this story is then the discussion by Mr Rosenkranz and the corresponding supporting remarks by Mr Graf. Yes, may the honourable Member just refund Otto's mandate so that this action can be settled in peace! [[Abg. Grossruck: “Reset” he said!]] [[Abg. Wheelers: Loss wouldn't be anyone!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] You have to imagine this: At a call from the Third President: I'll sue you! The honourable Member concerned says: Oh, I put back my mandate and then wait in peace, what happens, and be it two years! – If I have it right in my head, it is Mr Petzner, who has to wait two years until the prosecutor's office hits a finger, so go, or should it be three years. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Well, he wanted it! He wanted the...!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: That wasn’t groundless!]] That is the democratic understanding of Mr Graf, our third president. He filed a complaint – bag! – who has the honourable Member in question – Zack! – to relinquish his mandate and sit at home and wait in peace?- Oh, my God! – This is really a concept of democracy that seeks the same!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14322	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14343	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Much of what Mr Van der Bellen said earlier, I can share, in particular, with regard to international development. We are in an economically really very, very difficult time, triggered by an international financial crisis, with no instruments at international level to prevent such developments. And perhaps the positive thing about the crisis is that we are now finding international instruments, such as international financial market surveillance, perhaps a financial market surveillance of the European Union that will prevent such crises in the future. If there is real economic performance worldwide in about 70 trillion dollars and a financial sector can be expanded to 500 to 600 trillion – exactly you don't know – then you don't need to wonder that such developments can and will come about. We all now feel the effects of this, of course, also in the field of real economy, while from 2000 to 2008, as well as in previous times, we had an overall very, very good development in Austria. And when it comes to sensibilities, who, how and what government constellation has made the best policy for Austrian citizens, then, I believe, it is so that every government has been in any way sought and is to make a good policy for the people. That must have been the case in the past! I would just like to point out that Finance Minister Lacina also had good approaches when he made the 1989 tax reform together with Finance Secretary Ditz and thus achieved first important redundancies. He also abolished property tax because it was more important – much more important! – to increase the tax on wealth. Since then we have to tax on capital income taxes, the capital income tax on interest, and interest is known to be asset increases, as well as dividends, but also dividends from foundations with corresponding capital income taxes. I can only recall that in the best years, the wealth tax brought €400 million in tax revenue to the state and the capital income tax now brings the three to three-and-a-half times that value. – So overall, I believe, we can assume that we should no longer debate wealth and wealth tax, but we should be more concerned about how to bring down the tax rate. We have one of the highest rates of taxation in the European area with about 43 percent, and we should do everything we can to reduce them, especially since we know that any reduction in the tax rate has brought about an increase in gross social product. We know this, and the European and international comparison also shows that we have been able to develop in Austria in particular as a result of this discharge and additional purchasing power policy since 2000. We have a total of 280 000 jobs for Austrians, and we have created a good development potential with 1,000 companies and their headquarters more in Austria – mainly foreign businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Van der Bellen, I believe that the measures we are now taking with a total relief of €3.2 billion and, above all, the great relief for the middle and lower income levels with about €2.7 billion will help increase purchasing power accordingly. Like the discharges that my previous speakers have already mentioned, I believe these, together with the economic packages, will certainly help us to cope with the crisis. I personally, Mr Van der Bellen, do not worry so much about the development of interest rates. You know that Japan is one of the largest economies in the world, and we know – look at the interest rate development in Japan! – of course, we will have major problems in the coming years where demand is concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Yes, Japan! They pay one percent]] We constantly have more products than demand for them, which will, of course, reduce the rate of inflation. There is more danger – and I appreciate it much more! - a deflation. I am really very careful in this regard, because the most difficult thing to do is to combat deflationary development, Professor Van der Bellen. If we want to make every effort to set the economy in motion here, then I think these measures are good for that. They also show that we are developing much better than our neighbours in Germany, for example: These have a negative growth of about 6.7 percent in the same period in Austria, which is about 3 or 3.2 percent. So good work has been done! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] Budget creation in an economically so difficult time is not easy, one needs courage – courage to define numbers here. No one is served with fear and uncertainty! I think we should take a positive look at the future despite all of this because we have done the corresponding intermediates.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14411	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14432	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The Minister of Finance has said it himself, the Minister of Finance knows it: His numbers are macular. – In the hearing in the Committee on Budgets, he has also said this in words, and so is what he refers to. It is expected to be 2.2 percent, but it is likely that it will be at least as the economic researchers have told it for months, That is, that it is at least 4 percent. The deficit will therefore not amount to €13.5 billion, but will go towards €20 billion. One important aspect which has not yet been addressed is unemployment: The 2009 budget is estimated to be 265,000 unemployed and the 2010 budget of 298 000, but each expert says it will be 400 000, 500 000, possibly even 600 000 unemployed. 100 000 unemployed people are burdening the budget with €2.5 billion. These at least €5 billion are not budgeted! – Our deficit will go towards €20 billion. And I am surprised when my colleague, in his teaching to the SPÖ, boldly mentions that a euro that is being lurked by the tax reform, which is not a tax reform, but only a collective reform, only 25 percent go into consumption. – Yes, of course, because the wrong ones have been congratulated by this tariff reduction. Those in whom every additional euro would go into consumption, those involved in small incomes below €1 100, do not save anything at all, do not get anything through this tax reform at all. Therefore, the question of repayment of at least €20 billion annually arises. If you listen to Mr Krainer, who spoke earlier about tax structure issues, about raising taxes on wealth and reducing the labour factor, you have to say that sounds like a dangerous threat. As always, when the SPÖ talks about taxes, the alarm bells must ring in this case too. Then Krainer also criticizes the FPÖ by blaming us that we want to raise expenditure and reduce taxes. - It doesn't work! As it works, he is told by his own former finance minister Androsch, who is his own economic expert in today’s “Krone”: Instead of tax increases to finance the growing budget holes, the enormous savings potential must first be addressed in the public sector and, above all, in the health and social sectors. As slumbering, Androsch says, billions of amounts that can be saved without reduction of benefits alone through more efficiency – only through increased efficiency in the health insurance sector. The Upper Austrians and Vorarlbergers know what is coming, because they have read the Upper Austrian and Vorarlberger newspapers. This budget has not yet been decided and the two ÖVP heads of state of Upper Austria and Vorarlberg are already announcing a constitutional complaint against their own budget, against the own budget accompanying laws you passed yesterday. If you say today, Minister of Finance Pröll, in the early morning, towards the FPÖ Member Graezeit: Whoever calls this budget a disaster, lays the foundation stone for the damage of the Republic!, I can only tell you that otherwise a shoe would be out of it. With this budget – and this confirms your own country leaders – you lay the foundation for the damage of the Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14487	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14509	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Estimated Secretary of State! I'd relativize this a little. My experience as a long-standing member of the National Council with the federal states is that there is a very little eyeglasses there. If there are elections, it is of course a special problem and you are willing to pin down your own federal party again and again. It's like that once. However, I believe that the hardest structures in Austria are precisely the federal structures. A federal border is much harder to penetrate than a national border in Europe. That is why in the future, as I think, we will be able to find a truly huge form of reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call:This applies to all]] – This applies to all. I am absolutely free of any party policy. [[Call the ÖVP:Go!]] Well, that's it. [[Abg. Großruck: I believe you!]] This applies to all, indeed to all political groups, to all groups of national leaders. A word about the research and innovation budget. Indeed, it was feared that the budgetary savings measures would be carried out in a massive way. That is not the case, thank God. The Federal Government has decided to make a generous budget available in the fields of education, research, science and innovation. This is also urgently necessary because it is to be feared that, because of the economic situation, companies will not research in this strength due to the results. The second danger is that companies, which have so far been very much concerned with indirect support, so to speak, with tax relief, will move more towards the fund due to the deterioration of the economic situation with requests for funding. That is to say, it is likely that fiscal reductions planned in the budget will not be made at the planned level, while the funds will be under massive pressure. That is why we should have the appropriate flexibility within the budget to respond. I am also very glad that CERN remains an Austrian project now, thanks to the Federal Government for thinking that it would not have been really sustainable smart to get out of there. I think it is a reasonable decision by the Federal Government to continue to do so. But let me also say something about the financial and economic crisis in general. We know that our budget or the budgets of the next few years are massively under the impression of this financial crisis and the resulting economic crisis. There are hardly any other options than those that we can picture here in these budgets – of course, with a stronger debt. We also know that part of this debt, the bank aid, is likely to come back, we hope that nothing will happen again. That means that the situation will then relax again very quickly. Nevertheless, we should consider how Europe will react to these developments, which have been massively taken from the USA, so to speak, in the future. I believe that we simply need the approval of financial products and that we also need to consider whether it is useful and good for infrastructure or pension provision to be traded on the stock exchanges, so to speak. This, as I mean, has not proved to be the case – we know it. In 2004 it was tried to further liberalize this. This has cost the Austrian pensioners a lot of money, massive losses. We should consider a new form of financing this private pension provision in Austria, which would result in the funds being allocated to it being made available for infrastructure development, health care and education, so that these things are financed. In this sense, I believe that the budget was ultimately very difficult to make, but it has become a very reasonable budget for the next two years. We'll see what the future will bring. Budgets are more or less forecasts, deviations are system-immanent. That is why we should not present this as a huge problem, but simply as a fact. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14577	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14598	Mr President. Estimated representatives on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to personally welcome Mr Faul, who has only sporadically looked at it today. [[Call BZÖ: He's gone again!]] Apparently he's on his way back to or already in the canteen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] – Mrs Colleagues, I think it is better if Faul is there to piling the Members than here in the public and in front of current television cameras. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] - You don't need to age. Perhaps it is better if this spectacle, which a Member of this House has offered to the public here, does not become too public. There are already the first questions as to whether you will see this show on YouTube as well. – Of course, he will also be able to be understood there, and of course the students who teach this Mr. School Director will also be able to see what he offered at the speaker's desk yesterday. This is certainly not acceptable to the reputation of the House. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is also unacceptable if the Minister of Finance – I really think this is a strong piece – has said here today who is criticising this budget, alas Austria. The word “catastrophic budget ” should not be taken into the mouth, for this is a shame in Austria. I ask you, Minister of Finance: How else would You refer to this budget – a budget that is a record debt, a budget that the economic experts have already confirmed that it is based on false economic forecasts, a budget that we are facing with unemployment figures, as the previous speaker said, which will not hold, which must be corrected, a budget against which even the Members of this House are voting? Mr Finanzminister, you are warning about this, but your own group, your own party, are not under control. Their own heads of state of Upper Austria and Vorarlberg have said that a complaint will be filed against this budget accompanying law. What is this budget in which the figures do not vote in the front and the back? How different is this to be described as a disaster budget? – But I have a proposal: We agree on it and call it a swindle budget. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I can tell you one thing, you will be standing here in the House in a few months and will tell us that the numbers are correct. Once it was the flood in Lower Austria that had to last, now it is the great economic crisis that has caused the debt to explode. I am convinced that the ÖVP will find another occasion to explain to the Austrians why there is no such thing. That is why our request for referral back is correct and necessary. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If the 2009 budget is already adopted in the figures and will not vote, I must point out that this will multiply for the 2010 budget, and that is negligent. This budget is based on wrong figures, there is record debt, but no reforms. They therefore endanger social security and social peace in Austria. You have actually missed an opportunity, because you have not least the acceptance of the population due to the economic crisis. You have the acceptance of the parties here in the House, in a tense situation more expenditure, i.e. higher debt to purchase. You have the acceptance of the Austrians who say: Save! Save it, but it's the right place. Debts yes, but then at the same time reforms. - But you don't do that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, you take an exorbitant additional debt, but at the same time do not take any reform steps. Where have the reform steps in the field of education remained? A proper approach – you have left the Minister of Education in the rain. And this model, which has now come out here, is a lazy compromise and will cost more, because of the interest the Republic will have to pay to the federal real estate company. And what have we actually achieved, Mr Amon? – They’ve given the “things a cart” as it’s called in good German. They have prevented educational reform. They have fewer teachers available for the so necessary high-quality education. And in total, all this will cost more because you've driven your black teacher union to the street and added a bad sign. We'll see what's coming. We will now experience what has been pre-practiced by the teachers in the field of justice, and we will experience it in the security field. And I say, too, right. Why should the executives not go to the street if you want to save them? What you have granted and granted to the teachers is the responsibility of the prosecutors and also of the staff in the field of justice and security. That is, more expenditure, but no reforms. And with that, you're risking the health sector, where we don't see anything at all. The funding of the health system from a single source, the health reforms are a long way off. Where is the merger of social security funds? – All savings in the administrative sector that do not take place. Education reform also sleeps reforms in the security field. Only a final sentence, because in the budget speech the Austrian German army did not even mention it and the Minister of Finance did not receive it at all. The Austrian Federal Army is no longer fully operational. It's just a small footnote of this budget that you say goodbye to. Only 5,000 to a maximum of 10,000 men are ready to work. The requirements of the Federal Government Reform Commission were 55 000. Aerospace monitoring and airspace protection are only possible more limited. The militia ceases to exist practically, and the general obligation to do so is no longer meaningful. This is just a small area in addition to the other difficulties we have in the security field, in justice, in executives. I would just like to exemplify how, with this budget, you are actually endangering the social security, but also the personal security of the Austrians. In summary, you can say: With this budget, you have actually threatened the social peace in Austria. They have not taken any measures and have not taken the opportunity to introduce administrative reforms in parallel with this record debt. And you've also put the opposition against yourself. It is thought to be a working group now to implement reforms and new taxes. The speaker of the SPÖ Krainer said that the revenue structure should now be looked more closely. That's right, but that's actually a dangerous threat. Because what does that mean? – That means nothing but new taxes, that means nothing but new taxes. And the wide mass will have to bake the soup you have incubated. If you would jump a little above your own shadow, then you would have this working group that you remember – Mr Rudas said yesterday that the SPÖ is now making a working group, because she wants to improve the world – here in the High House and not in the SPÖ Party Centre, and would also involve the opposition parties, because you will need it at the latest in the administrative reform, which concerns a two-thirds matter. And then, here in the Budget and Financial Committee, we make an honest case, where the financial experts speak, where the economic experts speak, where honest figures are put on the table and where the opposition parties can also introduce their ideas. Everyone has constructive proposals, the BZÖ with the model of flat tax, the greens with considerations also in the environmental and social field. Why don't we put this in? Why do you form a working group at the SPÖ Party Centre and not here in Parliament? You'll need the opposition parties. That's why I'm asking you to jump over your own shadow.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14681	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14702	Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! Mr Strutz, who sits in the glass house, should not throw stones. For whoever has a record debt in his federal state, who blockes reforms such as demand-oriented minimum security or administrative simplification, should not say anything on this issue at all. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If you have the government parties, if You blame the government for wishing us floods or economic crises, I tell you, then go back to Carinthia, because then you have lost nothing here. [[Abg. Bucher: This is unbearable!]] We have to deal with an economic crisis here, and we will do so with this budget, because we are just taking the right measures. We know that this country is about every job, and that is exactly what is set out in this budget. [[Abg. Booker: Stop with this nonsense at last!]] And why do you always make things bad? You say you want to bring in ideas. Your policy is an announcement policy. Where you rule, you spent the money, even when the economic crisis was not there, with both hands. [[Abg. Bucher: Why are you going to a coalition with us in Carinthia?]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Ask the voters in Carinthia why they support us and choose you!]] Mr Bucher, you do not need to be upset, I am now a positive person. [[Abg. Bucher: If you're talking such a nonsense, I have to get upset!]] We laid a foundation for the discharge policy that we have now continued in the years 2000 to 2006. One must have said what Mr Matznetter and Mr Krainer, who are no longer in the hall, have said today, to the right light. It is very likely that we ourselves, as EIA employees' representatives in the 2003/2004 tax reform, were somewhat uncertain whether these were the right measures to reduce corporate tax from 34 percent to 25 percent, to introduce group taxation, but these measures were fruitful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] These measures have led to record employment. This reform has led us to the top within the European Union in the economic sense, the unemployment rate has been greatly reduced, and we have moved towards full employment. [[Abg. Bucher leaves the meeting room.]] – Mr Bucher, it is a pity that you are going now. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] - Where would we be today, we wouldn't have done that?- Oh, my God! Now that the economic crisis is in place, the first point is to put a budget at the feet of what is needed for the labour market, but on the other hand it also brings relief to all taxpayers and, of course, to families. It is always said here that all of this is nothing, but: With the tax reform, we were able to obtain a discharge of between €400 and €1 350 per year for all taxpayers, and with the family package we were also able to obtain a relief for the families. This is very much and is the next step of a discharge. We stand for discharge policy and not for tax policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We could have made the same speech every time in the last few days from the speaker's desk. So I can only say today: We are therefore also opposed to the introduction of new taxes. What's that supposed to do? As long as we can't be sure that every taxable person, who is, for example, taxable as a result of a profit from shares, will be subject to a tax duty, as long as we can't be sure that the people who are sold with profit within 10 years will be able to admit their tax liability in the case of property tax, we don't have to think about any new property taxes, because the Minister of Finance must first have that tax – and then we can think about it. We all know from the business sector, ladies and gentlemen, that if we are in a difficult economic situation, we have to cut expenditure side by way of expenditure, we have to make the reforms. Those who have already implemented today that we do not implement reforms, that they do not see reforms, are saying: This government is in service for half a year, there is a five-year legislative period that will last 4.5 years, and you will be surprised because we will find out again from this economic crisis, and before we find out, we will present you with reforms! I'm telling you right now: You will be against it again because you do not have your own ideas, because you yourself are not for reforms and always want to block everything!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14830	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14851	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Dear Ladies and gentlemen, you are here in the plenary room on the edge of the audience! This budget has essentially two central problems. The first problem is: The Minister for Finance has not explained in the Committee or here today in plenary how the budget deficit is to be depreciated. – I say to you: Talk to the people outside! They are very concerned about this very topic of the future. This concern leads to great uncertainty. It is always conjured that we need confidence in the crisis, but it is working against it, ladies and gentlemen. We must finally put the cards on the table and make it clear how the deficit should be reduced. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] People are absolutely clear, a budget deficit – the first hour of economics at the university – can only be deducted by reducing government expenditure or increasing taxes. And people want to know what they are about. The lack of the visions of the future has also shown a statement by the SPÖ Budgetary Spokesman, Mr Krainer, in the Budget Committee, who literally meant: Yes, the budgets of recent years are essentially being continued in the core. – What does that mean? – We have a crisis that exceeds everything we have had in recent decades, and there are no clear new statements! Finally, there are two very solid foundations on which one must rely: research and the environmental engineering industry. On the topic of research. It's already been sworn today, there's more money for it. After the budget speech, a praise was expressed by Mrs Bures, and Minister Hahn has said that there is enough. But that this is not the case, it has shown itself, because a few weeks later, Federal Minister Hahn has already announced that we are getting out of Cern because he needs the money for other international projects. One cannot really blame the Federal Minister on this, because he was in a difficult situation and had to focus on it, but one has shown it: The approach of trying to get out of a flagship of European top research to invest elsewhere clearly shows that there are too few resources available here. Not only this, ladies and gentlemen, because we have the debate on the budget here, but at the same time, at 11 a.m., the new study was presented by the Federal Minister of Finance Bures and by the Wifo-chef Aiginger for the evaluation of the system of Austrian innovation, research funding. And the title of this study by Karl Aiginger is: The course for tomorrow is set today for a radical new research technology and innovation policy – I quote. In this context, freshly on the table, you have the statement: Everything is to be done – and then quite clearly: more than before – in order to further increase research expenditure in the crisis. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, these are the latest diagnostics also from Wifo's top economic research institute in this situation. In this crisis, The challenge of having nail samples is the challenge. For example, Finland has mastered this very well. Since the Minister of Finance has today brought European comparisons, I refer to the comparison with Finland. In its great economic crisis in 1990, Finland has focused on research, innovation and thus scored. Finland is among the top riders – Austria is far away! Many recognize that, although the government does not become more greener to our regrets, it certainly becomes more greener markets. Markets are getting greener, we have huge growth rates in this area. However, those who do not respond to it are the Austrian Federal Government. You can read this well at the budget. Whether in the case of domestic or foreign environmental promotion, focussing, there is no back and front to increase the potential. One thing is clear: This is one of the areas with the best growth rates. This has not reached the crisis in the form and will not reach it, because it recognises worldwide the importance of investing and focusing on it. Since going to export, conquering markets, that must be the goal. Where to find the priorities? – In energy efficiency, in renewable energy, in the internationalisation offensive, and of course we also need a training offensive in these professions, because this would enable us to become a world-wide top region in the eco-economics and thus create thousands of jobs. Look at the chances, it needs to be worked on! The budget does not de facto answer how the budget deficit is reduced. There is no focus on the future fields – and the future fields are clearly defined. But there is no answer to the current crisis situation, as a conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14938	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14959	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! The Secretary of State! Mrs Lichtenecker, in her speech, expressed concern at how people are assessing the situation in five years' time. I can tell you, whoever I'm talking to, People want a job now, want to know whether they still have the job, how their families will go, who want to cope with their lives now! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Of course, we also need to take care of the future, but now people want to know how they can cope with this crisis. We have made economic packages for the families, for medium incomes. That is what was and is now necessary, and for that we have also received good marks from the international community. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Priority sets have been requested. It is important to make more for women, and an emphasis has been placed on this budget. For the first time, the budget was increased by 14 percent. There are 14 percent more for women, which is still little, of course, but this is a focus and an important emphasis and an important commitment by the Federal Government to women's policy. What would you like to do for women with the increase in the 2009 and 2010 budgets? – One would like to do more for women with regard to the development of women’s services, with regard to the sustainability of the projects already under way, with regard to the strengthening of women, with regard to the training of women. It is not about making a national action plan, coordinated by the Minister for Women, in order to achieve more equality in the labour market. Of course, that is necessary. We know that the income shears are too far apart – as measures are necessary, our brain rest is required. In this respect, we will call for the appropriate measures and also implement them for women in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another important point in this budget is the intervention agencies, the anti-violence agencies, which are being further worked on and further expanded, as a result of which more regionalisation is to be achieved. In this context, an appeal to the Minister of the Interior, who spends a large part of her budget on intervention agencies: In addition to the anti-violence centres, emergency homes are also to be built for women married to forced marriage. We need to help together, and I am sure that we have a consensus in this respect in our country. [[Calls to the Greens.]] We'll do this, you can rely on us! [[Abg. May. Korun: Where is the money for it?]] The Federal Government's strategy report states that gender equality is a priority, and it is also to be found once again that further development of gender equality measures between men and women must be pursued. These are important projects, and there is a lot to be done for them. Mr Csörgits has already said: The compulsory school leavers – especially women who have only completed compulsory school – should continue to promote, in the AMS funds, women, too, to use half of the AMS resources for continuing training, for the qualification of women, which is an important objective and we will ensure that it is achieved. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another important point for me, which I also work in the Committee on the Interior, is that there, too, where so-called men's arteries are located, many women also join the Ministry of the Interior. I only recently attended a course, I was in the removal of police students, and it was nice to see that more than half are now police women. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If, in this context, the so-called flexipool is built, namely the karenz pool, so that the profession and family can be easily reconciled so that children's education and family life are possible for police and police when a pilot project of a kindergarten for police officers is in progress in Salzburg, then the good approaches are, and I hope that more will follow here, because we need gender justice at all levels. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: We need justice everywhere!]] Gender budgeting is a very important point; Gender budgeting in all resorts, so that we can see where the women really find their place. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Gender justice, yes!]] This is an important measure and is about this budget, which is not yet as high as the other budget items. I'd like to see sex justice then. We've got this right in front of us and we know there's still a lot to do. “Gender budgeting” is the magic word, I tell you, and it is to be fulfilled by 2013. It is a task that we have under the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15082	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15104	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! High house! I would have liked to have a more beautiful word as a ‘gener budgeting’, but of course we are all women or men in this House, for the two sexes to be treated equally. [[Abg. May. Worm: Then do something for it!]] Personally, coming from an old school, I think that women are being treated better. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Bravo! Yes, I do!]] It must not happen that a lady feels insulted when you help her out of the coat, and says: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] I can do that myself. – That hurts me then! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today at 10.05 p.m., Mr. Vice-Chanceller and Minister of Finance Pröll said something that I was extremely wrong with, and I was actually expecting some of you to be super-democratic. Vice Chancellor Pröll said to my friend Grazauer: Watch what you're saying! We're under observation! Our country is closely monitored, he said. Although we know that we have good economic data, political statements are also analysed and could harm our credit quality. The question raised in this context is: Who's watching us? Who's that who's watching us? Under whose observation are we? [[Abg. Amon: What do you think?]] Under observation of the American East Coast? Or Brussels? Or the financial markets? [[Abg. Amon: Yes!]] If it is the financial markets, then I am particularly concerned when this observation concerns us. – Those financial markets that it has for years – for years! – so wildly driven that you would have to put a lot more rule behind the castle and bars. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You get a credit that the young lady who writes here in front of me closes at the bank desk. And without asking them, one takes this credit, bundles it together with other loans – which are far from worth so much, because this young lady is willing and also capable of paying back; but many others have got a loan and are unable to repay it – and sells the whole convolut to increase their own profits from wild greed somewhere; and from even greater profits it buys European banks – also Austria. And then they say that we have these under observation! As a self-confident state – and I am very proud of the fact that the word “self-consciousness” has fallen in this House today – I am not allowed to observe such guys! A self-confident state must not be observed by anyone, even by such types as are today called the international, global financial market. On the contrary! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We, the Republic of Austria, which is not something that was created in 1918 as the Republic of Austria – then Germany – which builds and builds on the ancient Duchy, on the later empire of Austria, then Austria-Hungary – this country and its inhabitants have a history! – this country should be monitored by some people, and we should therefore refrain from doing so in this House, in Parliament, what we are saying so that we may not be treated badly by those?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] We have our own financial market supervision. We have to pay attention to those. We have to make sure that this really works and is really careful and that the money of our citizens is probably withdrawn. We have our own parliament that makes laws, and these laws must be implemented in such a way that our people are protected, even against the creation of any international, global financial markets and similar lucky drivers! Ladies and gentlemen, if we make and build a budget like this, we may not have to criticise a budget as much as it is today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15242	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15263	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Criticism of a budget is not bad for itself. It's just about how the criticism is practiced. If we listen to the debate this way, this House is not really lacking in knowledge of better, but there is a great lack of better makers. There are proposals that can only be wondered about. I think that in a situation where we have to wander through them, we should deal with each other a little bit more carefully or discuss it here in the Austrian Parliament. All speakers agree on one thing: There's something like a crisis. Everyone sees it differently, everyone defines it differently, everyone has a different access. It is important that we work together to meet this challenge. This budget is trying to give answers. It's not easy to create a budget like that. One assumes where one often cannot know whether they are still in place tomorrow or the day after. These are, as I mean, really the big problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vock.]] – The rapid changes, my colleague, have always been there! We just need to see a few things very clearly. It is not a question of the Minister of Finance saying that the criticism as such goes beyond and goes to other countries. He has just said that we should not practice criticism at all costs, but rather we should deal with the issues that really concern us. This is indeed a matter of securing many valuable facilities and goods. This is about us running a proper distribution policy with the money we have. Of course, everyone has a different idea in this respect, partly from their origin, partly from ideological considerations. There are many causes. It is important, however, that in the core areas, namely security, education, social equipment, we are stable and reliable in these difficult times, and remain reliable. – I think that is really the great task we are facing. If today again – like for almost decades! – is discussed about administrative reform, then it is good. Only, who is the first to actively contribute to the discussion and implementation of real reforms in his group or in his federal state? It's exactly the same phenomenon: Everyone knows... – Look, you don't have to put anything in front of us! [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: They are in your realm of power!]] Just where you bear and have responsibility, you have nothing to show! We're doing a lot more. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Where I have responsibility...!]] I don't know what FPÖ you belong to now! [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: They were never in the government!]] I don't know your relationship. Sorry. We have also had many discussions with you. And in reality, when it came to putting things into practice, the courage and willingness were only limitedly recognizable to none at all. – Look, these are really the important things! If we are talking today about the fact that there is a lot to discuss in the budget as a whole and that we want a flat tax, then it is not a new term, but then you also say what you would do tomorrow if you took less taxes! In general, this leads to another distribution policy in this country. Not only can you put a new language phenomenon into space, but you also have to say how you deal with it. I think it would also be good if we were to think about this tax reform, which everyone can judge differently, paying more than half of the income recipients in Austria no taxes, more than half! I think that this tax reform can be shown before the citizens! She can show what she's been moving, about 3.2 billion of them... [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: That's sad if half of you don't pay any more taxes!]] – You only need to read: This also brings more than €500 million for the families! Why did we do that? – To strengthen the purchasing power to secure the employment of people. I think this is the biggest concern we all have and what we want to do. Since today so many better knowers are here, I would like to say: I am thinking of the 2008 election. At the time, I hardly noticed the courage of some parties to participate in a government. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Well! Come on!]] – Not noticed at all – I can still make myself clear there! These two parties have been willing to assume responsibility for this country. They have taken over these and will develop them accordingly. You will show that this country is a big concern to them, and you have the opportunity to accompany us wherever you want. Today, the euro and Europe have already been mentioned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] Remember, too, that many things would not have happened in economic policy if we did not have European cooperation! Remember, too, that at the time of the euro's monetary crisis, it was an extremely stable element that saved a small economy, which we are undoubtedly, from great damage. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] See: These are things I think you can also take care of and talk about, if you think it well with this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15395	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15418	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear audience on the ranks! Before I come to the real issue, I would like to express my concern at what Mr Faul presented yesterday at an advanced hour. I am not only saying this as a colleague here in the National Council, but I am also saying it as a teacher colleague and a teacher. He has not only damaged the reputation of the house, but also the reputation of our profession. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call at BZÖ: That's it!]] If teachers react so much to expressions that may not at the moment be so sympathetic to them – from experience one knows that the students do not always talk to the teacher after the mouth – then this actually makes them fear bad. On the real topic: Mr Wöginger – he is not here now – has said – and Mr Donabauer has expressed a similar opinion – that the site always determines the position. – In a way, he is right with this, but I would like to add it and say: The point of view also determines the knowledge and experience that one brings when one has once held responsibility. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is true for the BZÖ. I am not talking about the black and blue coalition now, because the FPÖ, which is now in the National Council, has never been in this coalition. That's what she claims over and over again. So I say, in the black and orange coalition, I already knew what it means to take over a budget in 2000 that brought record debt from the times of the great coalition and to reduce these record debt. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: The BZÖ tip has also left the FPÖ pretty debt behind!]] I know very well what it means to have courage for reforms, for reforms that need to be started, especially in the field of pension insurance institutions. I think about the fact that we started to put the pension insurance institutions together at the time. The ÖVP has stopped half way back, but we took a first step back then. I also know what it means to write a social manuscript in a budget. However, this social manuscript applies to all areas; no one should be excluded and excluded. Mrs Tamandl said earlier that Carinthia is blocking the minimum level of security. – I have to say: Carinthia is the only federal country with a minimum guarantee for three years! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A minimum guarantee, which takes account of the performance of the lives of individual citizens – that is, of what they have done for society in the course of their life. I am very glad that the current Social Minister is so far away that he takes the good ideas from Carinthia and says: We'll negotiate it before we decide on a model all over the country. That's the right way. With regard to social manuscript, I come back to this budget: It certainly contains a lot of things that is socially right, which is socially good. neglect a group However, it shall: This is the group of people with disabilities, those people who are particularly hard at the time of high unemployment, who are particularly vulnerable to job losses. Nevertheless, you have reduced the resources for the employment offensive, the so-called employment billions that have just been introduced by the predecessor government. They then write in an answer to a question that the difference is compensated for by the European Social Fund. But that's a pure statement of intent, fix is nothing yet. Save Further You have € 40 million just on the back of people with disabilities by pushing out the necessary adaptations to accessibility in school buildings. They reduce the support fund for people with disabilities. There has been no increase in lump sums for exceptional loads for 20 years. You remember: This is the content of an application that we have tabled and which has been assigned to the Committee. But for this – and I particularly criticise it – you make a basket money for the big senior organizations. In addition, you take €400 000 into your hand, €400 000 for your red-black precursor organizations so that they can continue to operate politically! Wherever it is particularly necessary, just in the area of the disabled, take it away and leave it in the rain. I would particularly like to underline this criticism here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Amon: The blue is there too!]] End Second: The Minister of Finance has said that the time of discharge is now, where children are. – I can agree. I'm not going to say the direction is right in this family package. The direction is true in so far as the milestones you are still talking about have been set earlier: for example, the milestone of the childcare allowance. If you remember – even if you do not like to hear it! –: The idea came from Carinthia, former head of state Jörg Haider. It is an idea that is not only pursued further, but is further developed. That's right and that's good. Similarly, it is with the tax reform for families, whose basis – someone has already said this today – was also laid in 2004 and 2005, when we have for the first time increased the single-parent and single-earner discount for many years. I wish you'd do it again. This would also have reached those families who do not pay taxes. The tax deductibility of child care costs is also in principle correct and good. One will see how it will be in the process when grandmothers and grandfathers have to do a training or attend a course. It's not quite understandable to me. The Free Kindergarten is also not a new idea, but already tested in Carinthia and Lower Austria, and now it is implemented all over the world. I therefore say: If this budget is to be responsible for the future, these expenditures must be guaranteed for families that nobody wants to give up today and in the future. That must be financially secured. They all know that the most important instrument is the FLAF, which currently has €6.5 billion on the expenditure side. FLAF is the central and fishing point for the financing of family benefits, such as school leave, family allowances, schoolbooks, as well as pension contributions for retirement periods paid by FLAF. However, FLAF is also the biggest uncertainty factor. If you look at the development, you can see that €900 million of deficit will be added by 2010 and overall the deficit will rise to €3.9 billion in 2010. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition: How do you want to slow down this deficit? Do you want to return the services, or do you want to increase the contributions? – I miss the answer. In a press release of 14. It reads as follows: “The reason for the huge financial hole in the FLAF is the financing of children’s money by black and blue orange. In any case, it would be necessary to put FLAF back on healthy legs.” – That’s what Commissioner Kuntzl of the SPÖ said at the time. At the same time, Mr Ackerl from Upper Austria, SPÖ Social Council said: It is a problem that FLAF owes € 2.6 billion by 2010. “This is a problem that can only “solve the Great Coalition, ” Ackerl is convinced.” Now I wonder – we have a big coalition since 2007 –: Where is your solution competence? I miss her in this area. We will put forward a proposal on the part of the BZÖ next week on how to ensure financial security in the long term. That alone that FLAF as such an important instrument in the future is not financially properly secured would be reason enough, ladies and gentlemen, to renegotiate the 2010 budget and to refer it back, as our Clubobmann Seppi Bucher has suggested. This would show you honest solutions, but also honest policies for the generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15508	Next speaker: Mr Haberzettl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15529	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! High house! It seems a bit strange if Members who used to be active at the national level and who have made a significant contribution to the highest per capita debt of the Republic of Austria in this country have been willing to give here a lesson for budget policy. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Which state are you talking about?]] I just hope that Mr Strutz will not also make an advisory statement to the House. I guess that would be the summit. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: A federal country where you lost 17 percent!]] – You are right, colleague Bucher, the Austrian Federal Railways are the next scandal. But I can name names that start with Gorbach and end with Huber – they also belong to you, Mr Bucher! [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: We don't hear anything!]] You can also go inside and sprinkle your head with ashes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In reality, there is a crisis at the moment, which is undisputed. The Federal Government is pursuing – as I mean – two essential, right approaches. One approach can be found in tax policy. We are trying to provide the lower income with the means that are very important for the promotion of consumption. [[Abg. Dolinschek:... ÖBB! ...management!]] The second and more sustainable measure, which I believe is very important, is the following: We are trying to stimulate the economy in two main areas: infrastructure, public transport, on the one hand an economic impulse and, on the other, an essential element of a reasonable social policy. In particular, these two instruments are of course used in the State-related undertakings, on the one hand the ÖBB, and on the other the ASFINAG. In the case of the ÖBB, a change in the financial account will be made. You will receive the support or order fees for the infrastructure sector paid in three tranches a year. This change will take place between 2009 and 2011. It is therefore very difficult to discuss the budget figures without explanation. The Government Convention agreed to increase the funding for public transport and private railways by a total of €820 million by 2013, and this will be implemented in the 2009 and 2010 forecasts. For example, an increase in the budget of €100 million is planned for 2009 and an additional € 140 million for 2010. The direct budget commitment of €10 million in 2009 under the economic programme and €20 million in the year 2010 are also included in the forecast. The financing of the new construction of the railway infrastructure has been re-established from 2007 onwards. Considering the success of 2008 with € 1.254 million, € 178 million was already installed in 2008 over the budget estimate. If these two factors are taken into account and the draft estimates 2009 and 2010, we are very clear about the success of 2008. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] As has already been said, these budgetary increases or the budgetary changeover are due to the fact that this increase is not immediately recognized very clearly. Nevertheless, this positive development should also be assessed positively. However, as a result of this massive further expansion of the infrastructure, further debt in the infrastructure of the ÖBB is clearly stated here. The planned organisational changes in the field of ÖBB holding should, if intelligently made, enable more efficient use of funds. In the case of public services, which are a very important contribution to social policy protection for commuters and local transport, the Federal Government will invest around €13.7 million more in freight transport and in passenger transport plus €45 million. This too is ultimately a contribution to dampen the crisis. It is important that there is an increase in the amount of public service in both draft estimates, but unfortunately they do not fully correspond to the amount actually promised in 2007, i.e. € 65 million in 2009 and € 75 million in 2010. I would also like to point out that additional funding of € 15 million is planned for the admission of apprentices. This means securing 200 apprenticeships in the company, and the ÖBB will have an unprecedented apprenticeship number of 1 870 in autumn 2009, around 100 more than in 2008. This budget, this double budget, is a solution under difficult conditions. In the end, the budget approach entitles us to begin with confidence in the reprocessing of the crisis. However, I also agree with the remark that after this crisis, it is likely that something will not really be the way it used to be. It will be the biggest challenge for politics, for trade unions and for society, after this crisis to consolidate our system as we wish.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15626	The next speaker was Mr Walser. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15650	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It's nice when the union is optimistic. Mr Haberzettl promises a lot of it. I can't share your optimism at all. But in one thing, I'll give you the following: After this crisis, nothing will be the same as before, except in an area. There, I fear, it could be that it is still the same as before, in the field of education. Because of this, it is not possible to do so. Your coalition partner has been reforming every reform for decades, and this budget is also in line with the ideas and fears we have had. This morning, Mr Vice-Chancellor spoke fully of the alleged € 1 billion increase in education. If you calculate a little bit, you will see an increase in the budget by €380 million in 2008 and an increase in the year 2008 based on the success of the year by €425 million in 2010. It is already a special chuzpe to include the 240 million € in this billion, which the BIG has to spend hours with the Ministry of Education, because it is quite a mistake to sell as an increase in the educational budget. But moving is also talking about an increase in total, for once again: When we look closely at these budget approaches, we note, and that is no secret that in the field of the Ministry of Education, 90 percent of the expenditure for staff goes up. If we combine the increase in wages for 3,55 per cent this year, the biennial leaps, the additional expenditure for multiservices et cetera, then we come to an amount that is clearly above that. Just one example: For the teachers alone, € 260 million more will be spent this year, in the AHS there are € 60 million more and so on, for this area alone. There's no way to talk about making more for education. This is only the operation of the legal requirements, which you find here. What is still missing in Austrian education is reforms. What's still missing is a big swing. What is still missing is a line that would continue our education system. We would also have massive savings. There are, in turn, the red, the black princes who prevent any movement. There would be a possibility if we were finally to lead secondary school I uniformly if we finally came to the common school of the 6- to 14-year-olds in Austria. We would have automatically abolished double-tracks, which are now available between the main schools and the AHS. There you would have savings, you could do something, there is a lot of money buried! There are other possibilities also in the area of Custodians at schools, in the field of administration. I could tell you from the experience of being a director a lot of what there are possibilities there. I'm just reminding you, for example, that we have an absolute need for professionals in the network. This is currently being done by teachers. That's not very efficient. Our appeal to you: Meeting Where reforms and savings come together! This would be particularly true of the school of the 10- to 14-year-olds. Our appeal to you: Finally, stop the blockade policy in this area!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15704	The next speaker was Mr Rasinger. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15725	Mr President. Colleagues on the government bank! This budget is a contribution to solidarity in health policy. A contribution to solidarity because it enables us to implement the government programme, which defines the core task as follows: the highest possible care for all – regardless of age and income. That sounds so loose, but this is an international one of the most difficult concerns to implement. For example: In Germany, the German Medical Day is just taking place. There are huge discussions there as to whether to rationalise openly or hiddenly. In Germany, it is openly discussed that, for example, thickness, smokers are returned, or that a heart surgery is listed before hip surgery. This is, by the way, a discussion which is being held in England or in America quite openly and legibly. In many countries, however, this discussion is being conducted hidden. This discussion has been going on for years. This has led to the fact that more than 2,000 practices are no longer available in Germany and about 3,000 doctors a year leave the country. This means that after a very limited training, which is completed by about 11 000 people 9 500, 30 percent say: I don't want to, or can't be responsible for working there anymore. They prefer to go to Sweden or England or Norway. That's actually a bankruptcy statement. I'm proud that I'm in Austria and part of it. I also feel responsible as a health politician for the fact that the service providers – these are doctors, sisters et cetera – can work happily, because only satisfied people can treat patients well, and that we also give the people the care they need. What people? – As everyone knows, I myself am a family doctor in a more underprivileged area of Vienna, namely in Meidling, at the belt. I always say, The value of health care is not shown by the fact that a court council or an industrialist can afford treatment – in Vienna twice as many specialists are private as with cash contracts – but by the fact that an elderly woman with a low level of education and low income gets what she wants. That must be our lead line! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Of course we have a problem, that is not a question at all. In Austria, we are world champions in the hospital lie, but just as it says to Felder, Köck and others that you can save easy €3 billion, which is almost an insult to intellectuality. If I were planning a health care on the green meadow today, I would do it quite differently, but save €3 billion at €10 billion final costs in the hospital area means that I have to lock 30 percent of the hospitals. That is what everyone should now answer for his federal state, whether this is feasible and whether it makes sense whether people can go to the hospital, yes or no. I claim that it is simply and simply not possible, and even if it were possible, I would have lock-up costs and shift costs, because the patients do not break up in the air. You only have 2.47 million patients going through hospital stays. I do not think it is fair, nor do I think it is fair that we are constantly building up the discussion on this point that we can save €3 billion. You should also talk about the other side, about the power explosion. Every year, more than 55,000 patients – more than St. Pölten has inhabitants – are operated on the eye. That doesn't extend life a day, but gives quality of life. You can be proud of that. The growth in health costs over the last ten years has been below OECD average in Austria. You can call me day and night and wake me up at night. The line must be: Is it quiet, does it make sense, are we economical enough? Of course we have to save, because otherwise the population will go away, otherwise solidarity will not go along. What do the healthy say? The people who pay this ask otherwise: What do I pay for, that's all unnecessary?- Oh, my God! In the moment a person is ill, all of a sudden is not so unnecessary. A point that is still to be taken into account in the budget, which also provides for more resources for health, is important: We secure 320 000 jobs in health care, which is 10 percent. Health will be the market of the future because people are getting older and the medicine becomes more powerful. For example, if I had the money of the Minister for Infrastructure, which has €14 billion for important tunnels and important bypasses, then I thought even more about what I could do in the health sector, and above all I could secure many women's jobs. I'll get you together. Of course we have problems. I don't think we should talk about this. We have a city-land gap, we have gaps in the supply, we also have problems with the bureaucracy there and there, but Barack Obama would be happy if he found in the USA the problem that exists with us Minister Stöger. Prime Minister Seehofer has already said: There is not the big Big Bang of the reform, but one must constantly make a small reform after one, so that the health system of the future is good and manageable.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15793	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15814	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, If I now follow the remarks made by my previous speaker, who has put forward a plea for the health system, which I can also sign in terms of content, then of course we have a very big problem, and that is financing. I'll be able to stretch the bow to this budget. In this budget, the health sector has been very weak. If I think that yesterday in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats there are already four Members in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, because they do not want to take part in this budget accompanying law, because they do not want deficient health insurance funds to receive disproportionate funds from the sickness insurance fund, then I wonder if this is not the first government crisis, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: Absolutely!]] Well, with the country election campaign, of course, you can't justify everything either, because the ÖVP Klubobmann, who certainly also comes from a federal state with election struggle, has already informed a few days ago that he wants to have a post-negotiation here. He does not want a preference of health insurance companies that need it more. The ÖVP is therefore only there for a few, and all the others are left on the track. They are themselves guilty, they have the bad luck that they happen to live in a federal country where the health insurance companies are not so good – for whatever reason. That's a policy I can't quite understand. Unfortunately, God is no longer there, Mr Donabauer, who has said that we are of the opposition, indeed, the best knower. It's a shame that there was no know-how in this government, because then it didn't need a better knowledge, but in this government there was only bad conscience, so it's necessary that some better knowers come to mind. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Donabauer says that we must remain reliable in security, remain reliable in education and remain reliable in social matters. – This is a contradiction in itself. When it comes to safety, we are not reliable. We have exploding invading rates, crime rates. In education, we are not reliable, there is no money, and in social matters we do not know at all how this will continue with health insurance. Who's going to get out of there now? Hence, there can be no mention of “reliance at all. ” It was also an ÖVP member, Mr. Auer, who said today that he thought it terrible that the 26. Casting up from what has already been said, it is said once again, only to maintain rituals and to appear in stricherlisten. – I think that is really shocking, Mr Auer. That's crazy what you're doing here! They really want to abolish parliamentarianism! You really want no one to speak here after Mr. Finanzminister and perhaps you have spoken. Then please be calm, and all shall agree, and shall accept it, and take note of it. So this is really not the way to go, and that has nothing to do with parliamentarianism at all. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: You can discuss everything in detail in the Committee on Budgets!]] If such broadcasts go over the APA, this adds a very, very massive damage to this House, ladies and gentlemen! - No, it has nothing to do with intention. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Perhaps you have also meant, above all, your colleagues from the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Krainer: But you have deliberately misunderstanded something!]] Mr Krainer, read this through – and then you have to understand it as well. I've read this out here now. He said he didn't want you to talk something through here 26 times. He wants to change that! That's clearly in here. He wants a new procedure. He thinks it is pointless to always say the same thing 26 times. Ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing wrong with this! This is equivalent to the abolition of parliamentarianism, ladies and gentlemen. And you're just as active here, and you're working here as well. They're putting a budget in front of us, and they're throwing us all the better knowers. It makes no sense for us to negotiate for weeks in the committees, because it is clear from the outset that there may not even be anything going on behind the commander's office. This is your way of making politics – and that is exactly what we reject. And that's also the reason why the voters run away from you and why they come to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15908	The next speaker was Mrs Silhavy. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15929	Mr President. Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek! Federal Minister Berlakovich! Federal Minister Stöger! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Colleagues, I am sorry that you are so frustrated by the work here in the House, but perhaps you will consider a policy that is positive and has not only to do with hatreds. Then you may also think a little more positive yourself and may be able to delay your frustration. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Budget is a policy cast in figures. With this budget, you can see the priorities of this federal government. These are mainly in the fields of work, social affairs, health, family, education and research. It is therefore important to take precautions in these budgets – for a crisis which has not been blamed by the people we are talking about, but which affects these people very often in the real economy. It is precisely this impact on the people who are now affected, although they have not been indebted to this crisis. I would like to pay particular attention to the chapter on tourism and leisure, because there are around 200 000 people employed in this sector – many of them women, colleague Heinisch-Hosek, and very often under working conditions which are not very easy because of the need for tourism working hours, while others are free. This means that the compatibility of family and work is often a challenge for employees in this area. But the tourism and leisure industry can only actually live well if people can also afford to take advantage of these offers. It was also particularly important for us to relieve the people of Austria, namely by means of a tax reform which we have already called for in the last government. We have now needed new elections, but now this tax reform has been implemented, and I am very happy about that, because it is more necessary than ever, so that people can hold their standard in some way even in economicly bad times. I would particularly like to stress the importance of the economic packages. They are precisely focused – I saw Mrs Bures here earlier – on achieving as high an employment effect as possible in the infrastructure sector, so that people have work and that their livelihoods can continue to be financed by work. However, I also believe that the priority we set in the field of energy efficiency is very important, because this area is also very important for leisure and tourism. Hotellery simply doesn't come out today without various wellness offers. It is very important that we be able to take energy-efficient measures, including in the area of tourism and leisure, which, at the end of the day, earns money and also creates employment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are also, of course, discussing how the crisis continues, because we all know that we now have to buy a higher debt to help people very quickly. I am a little surprised that this discussion is being held very emotionally, because what is it about at the end of the day? – It is about what we all have been discussing for years – and in times of crisis it only becomes more apparent – namely to relieve the factor of work. The fact that we have to think of something about it would be, I believe, no discord in the whole of the house. But if we want to relieve the labour factor, it must also be clear that we have to create an equivalent. Then we have to consider how non-working capital can make a fair contribution to our budget, to our community life. I think – even in view of what was discussed here yesterday in the House – that we will nevertheless continue this discussion seriously and seriously, without polemics, but also without intimidating us by hetzparols. We are in favour of a policy that highlights the minimization of the risks of the individual; we are in favour of a policy that leads to more equal participation of people in Austria. We are therefore also discussing a national action plan on equality. – It is also a question of how women are equal and what opportunities women have in this country. We are also discussing, on fair opportunities, how to increase the level of fiscal justice, and this discussion will go far beyond what we want to have in the context of this budget. Given that today the BZÖ complained about how one of our Members acted at the speaker's desk yesterday, I would say: Those sitting in the glass house should not throw stones, but come once in front of their own door. This applies to all the political groups and especially to the group I have mentioned earlier. [[Objection to the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill: it's best if they don't talk anymore!]] I hear expressions like “left mob” and “red Gfrieser” over and over again – everything has already fallen in this house. I believe that all of us would help Parliamentaryism, politics and the seriousness of our concerns to increase respect and appreciation in the population, if we were to deal with each other accordingly – also verbally.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15988	The next item is the speech by Mr Hagen. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16009	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't wear a T-shirt on which Heinz-Christian Strachean is spoken, which supports a mosque in the Vorarlberger FPÖ municipality Nenzing. I didn't deliberately put it on, but I still want to put it on here. I have forgotten to welcome Mr Faul. He's not there; he's obviously going to be fair to his name. I don't know, maybe he's already in Schönbrunn and he counts a little crocodile there or – well... – that's right. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You don't have a talk soon when you start the lazy!]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, on the budget: If I look at the budget this way, I have to say that it comes across from mistakes, ambiguities and problems that are not solved, and many things are not addressed, but let's assume that something is wrong in the background. If I remember that this is our first budget for the Minister of Finance, I would like to compare it with an apprenticeship. The problem is that the teacher who looked at him was not there, so some mistakes happened to him. There you should look at it a little bit, ladies and gentlemen of the government, maybe it works better at the next budget! The budget figures have been out of date for a long time. When we consider that our budget has been left behind for two months, even though we are currently in an economic crisis in which operations are calculated quarterly, we can only say - although this is nothing new - that: Mr Finanzminister, the job is missing! Now I would also like to address a few small details that are very disturbing to me about this budget, namely in the area of justice: Perhaps a little too little has been said about the fact that judges and prosecutors are being saved in the judicial area, and – which is extremely disturbing to me – staff will also be saved at the judicial station. Ladies and gentlemen, the overtime is reduced there. It is true, however, that crime is on the rise. Thank God the police are diligent, many people are arrested and some are naturally brought behind the castle and bars. And then there is no staff guarding these people, ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure something's going wrong. If I look at 54 attacks on judicial officers last year, I think that's terrifying! I think there's a man's need, not to reduce the staff, but to strengthen it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the ÖVP:And what about Westenthaler?- Oh, my God!]] - It's not for the debate here. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Yes, yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are other areas on which I have been annoyed. For the Executive Area: I have mentioned this more often, the security has a problem. The Minister of the Interior has never given me an answer. I have also put in writing in the Committee on Budgets the question of how many police services are closed or assembled, but I have not received an answer until today. I assume there's something in the bush. If I see that the rural areas are being diluted again by closure or assembly of services, and the security is diluted again, then I am very concerned, ladies and gentlemen! Now I want to come to a little treat. I once suggested this. Remember that aspirants in the police school today have a gross income of 800 € and have to buy their school books themselves – police school books, that must be imagined, cost contribution 100 € per head and nose, before they even started school! And then I see that books from SIAK will be shipped – I don't want to know what they cost – namely books entitled "Chechens in the European Union". These books are completely useless for teaching! This is all in English; I think we are here in Austria, we speak German. There are several other things that are put on by the SIAK and cost a lot of money. For the textbooks for the young police officers you have no money, but for such stuff it is wasted! There you can save well in the budget and make reasonable use of the money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16080	I call Mr Sonnberger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16101	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Stöger, Minister of State! Mr State Secretary! High house! I am very pleased that the Federal Minister for Health himself is present, because we voted yesterday on the health insurance recovery package, and what was decided there is, of course, a major, important social policy “broking”. I will also explain why, from the above Austrian point of view, this is basically in order – because it is a necessary measure – but on the other hand, corrective measures are still necessary. A clear yes to the €45 million liquidity guarantee; the resolution of the disaster fund amounting to €42,5 million, of which Vienna is to be thought of with 33 million, I can understand, but I also have constitutional concerns. The head of state in Upper Austria has also announced that it should be reviewed. Three times €150 million for debt reduction were also decided. The fact that the GSBG funds amounting to €97 million – you know that this has become possible through the reduction of VAT – are distributed on low-financial deposits is also understood. The cash-flow structure fund of €100 million from 2010 is also a new, additional measure, with a commitment to achieving a certain goal, which is to be defined in future by regulations in the competence of the Ministers for Health and Finance. I think so far, so good. I am also glad that we have a health minister who comes from this industry. – He was an Obmann of the Upper Austrian Regional Hospital. I do not want to hide that the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse ( Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse) has, in Austria, done an excellent job, because there was a joint decision over 15 years ago to reorganise the health insurance scheme. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Neubauer]] If you look at the deficits of the Upper Austrian Regional Hospital at the time and how ambitious a work programme has been carried out, then you have to say respect for those people who have implemented these reforms! I can tell you that, in part, it has already been “brittled” in the local health insurance fund; not all works councils agreed to how to solve these problems. But they've been solved, no one has been terminated, nothing has happened. It is only very conscious that expenditure, revenue and personnel costs are high. There was a diligent and diligent work. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, after 15 years, the Upper Austrian Regional Hospital has no problems. They now write profits in the years 2007 and 2008. By the way, it looks a little different for 2009, because we do not yet know the revenue development; it may get tighter. But, Mr Federal Minister, I appeal to you and I am also convinced that as a specialist you will certainly solve this as well, as is the case, for example. the Upper Austrians. You're in Sillian's paper on 10. ==References====External links== in connection with the new cash-flow structure fund – the 100 million fund – to be disbursed from federal funds: ‘In the context of the establishment of the cash-flow structure fund, it is also necessary to examine the resolution of the regional health telephone compensation fund.’ It is precisely because of the fact that this new Structural Funds also refers to structural disadvantages that you have rightly said, that we may also need to talk about these compensation funds. It is of course also the view of the ÖVP that there must be a fair compensation, because if I look at the fact that the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse has received € 611 million from these funds since 1961, for example Vorarlberg has paid € 84 million, € 130 million, Lower Austria € 236 million and Upper Austria € 283 million, then you simply have to say that you also have to set up for those signals that have so far been very responsible for the contributions of the service providers and service providers. It would be exactly the right message to simply “reject” this compensation fund, which is currently 2%, under quotation marks, or at least at first stage, because we now have the Structural Funds. I think that we are guilty of those who have been working for years and who have done their homework in the field of health policy, health insurance. We just have to send signals, because it can't be that those who do their tasks are always punished, and those who don't do the tasks are always protected. But I say – and that is, I believe, socially important and necessary – that there are also structural disadvantages, and if you think about them socially, you have to take these structural disadvantages into account accordingly. However, the Court of Auditors, when comparing the Upper Austrians with the Vienna regional health fund, also made it clear and clear that the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse has structural disadvantages because of high payments to hospital financing and because of the high proportion of non-contributory members. The Court of Auditors therefore even approved structural disadvantages in Upper Austria – and nevertheless the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse has cut off much better in direct comparison with the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, because it has just done its homework and because it has set its goals 15 years ago. It was the financial city councillor Hans Mayr – he is now active in the city of Linz – who has done this very successfully together with the team. This structure, and what Upper Austria has done, should be taken as an example and applied to the other cash offices that have problems. Mr Federal Minister, I really ask her that we try to reach a common solution, that we send real signals to those who have fulfilled their tasks. If the reduction of this compensation fund is realized, we can also be satisfied with the health insurance recovery package and then hopefully the local health phone can continue to work on a healthy basis in the future. It will be necessary that, in particular, the Vienna people finally understand that they have to put in place rehabilitation measures and better manage their financial situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16211	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Steinhauser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16232	Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, I would like to welcome our non-present Minister of Justice. That's incredible! Although the judicial budget is massively affected, during the first reading it has only looked by briefly and held a two-minute speech, yesterday in the debate of the budget accompanying law it has only looked by briefly and today it will not come at all during the second reading! That's really awesome! There is a shortage of personnel, there is budgetary scarcity – and the Minister of Justice is missing! Obviously, it fears the debate and Parliament. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: And where is Mr. Van der Bellen?- Oh, my God!]] The situation in justice is tense. I am therefore pleased that I have the Minister for Public Service, who has co-responsible and who will have to lend me her ear instead of the Minister for Justice. Mrs. Minister! We don't have 30 plan posts with the prosecutors. The situation is now so far that there is a danger that all criminal proceedings can no longer be properly carried out. In the field of economics, economic crime is finally under review, but there are not enough posts. That's unfortunate. With the judges, 150 plan posts are missing, no new plan posts have been added for years. For good reason, we in the House are constantly creating new laws, new criminal offences, but the personnel to do this are not able to do so. The Supreme Court has a 15 per cent increase in seizures, but there is no new staff. The consequences are obvious: The duration of the proceedings will increase, legal accuracy and legal certainty will suffer. The situation among law firms is similar. There have been massive savings in recent years – 600 people have been saved in the last six years! The consequences are clear. You only have to go to a court once to see the people there suffer from the burnout syndrome. If the protocols are not sent if the charges are not shipped, the judges can negotiate so quickly – the procedure will increase! The situation is similar with the executioners – 20 to 30 plan posts are missing there – and 50 plan posts are missing from the district lawyers. In criminal proceedings, the situation is also tense. There is only the hope that the detention relief package will take effect and that the officials will be relieved by decreasing detention rates. Alone, I lack faith, because it will be too little what can be won through the arrest relief package. You just have to look at the numbers: There is a lack of social workers, psychologists, medical staff. In the Josefstadt Justice Centre, over a thousand prisoners are expected to receive 5.5 plan posts for psychologists, which is simply too little. But I'm interested in the following, Mrs. Federal Minister: Has She's so well-negotiated and the Minister of Justice has negotiated so badly? Or was the Ministry of Justice's announcement that she was demanding 440 plan posts more, not quite serious and a show effect for the public? The result is the following: Bandion-Ortner wanted 440 more plan posts and must save 169 in the next few years. - That's how it looks! I congratulate you on having obviously negotiated well for yourself, but bad for justice; on the other hand, the Federal Minister for Justice has only done badly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16278	Mrs Hagenhofer's next speaker is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16299	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! As part of the budget consultations, the experts have expressed their voice and have also been reading in the media – and it has already been mentioned several times today – that this crisis, this world economic crisis, has destroyed an annual global economic performance overall. It has also been said of unemployment today. When I take my district, I see that at the end of April there were 3 800 people unemployed and 4 600 people in short work – precisely because of this crisis. 148 jobs are compared with 3 800 people. Now I come to the budget because it is very, very important that this government reacts with the budget in such a way that it gives absolute priority to crisis management, when I can call it, in the areas where we urgently need it in order to maintain social peace. This is quite simply important and necessary in the area of employment and the economy and education, and it has also been referred to in the field of health – which has just been discussed – in the area of social and tax reform. I am really grateful to the government for having responded so quickly. "Suddenly," I say, because we – which is now meant from the labour market perspective again – will receive additional €220 million of resources for active labour market policy for this year and for next year, in order to give perspective to those people who lack open jobs in the field of re-training. That's right and that's important! It has also been confirmed by the budget experts that the government has set the priorities correctly with this budget – even in the case of debt it imposes on itself, so to speak. Finally, if I may say something – this is a special concern to me, and I have already spoken about it several times today: Debt repayment is urgently necessary, yes, we will have to do so. It's just the question: Who pays back to what part? – It is about the issue of distribution justice, and I would like to quote someone who certainly does not come from among the social democrats, but who has had a lot to do with the social partners and still has, Professor Krejci. He says that distribution justice, namely the tax system, is in principle questionable. I think that's an announcement we should work on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16339	Mr Fichtenbauer spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16363	Mr President. Dear Government Bank! It is according to the speaker and structuring... – Yes, yes. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr Fichtenbauer, there are also people on the government bank!]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! – One can also call the collective without delivering a diminutive in the worship of honor. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You only welcomed the “government bank”!]] I see the office is yours; return, Mr Vice-Chancellor, come back! But listen, maybe you'll learn something from what I want to say here. [[Abg. Großruck: You never learn!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – You never learn; I’m already curious about today’s poem! My reason to speak – now loosed from the things to be attributed to a ministry – is that the invitation of the current Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance came, but to be calmer and not to speak annoyingly – to shorten it. This brings forth associative considerations linked to feudalism, because I cannot stress enough the value of the liberal principle in Austrian history, and especially in Austrian constitutional history. It was the liberal principle, it was the predecessors of our party, not more than in 1848, which, however, must be admitted, had exhausted the great political power when the democratic principle was achieved in the state, so that it was no longer a majority-building principle. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Listen, it's not uninteresting! There are a few foreign words; that is the only thing that may be a problem. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: What happens?]] [[Abg. Grandruck: A little arrogant...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] So what was it like to overcome it? – It was feudalism – feudalism, which characterized at least the first half of the 19th century – in the form of the establishment of political violence to gain and secure economic advantages. In other variations we see this again today; it is not completely overcome. There are impulses of feudalistic approaches in the internal, national, but also in the international field. Liberalism is, by the way, to be understood as a liberalism of order, not as a word that sometimes stirs up to misunderstandings, which is associated with "neo-". In reality, neoliberalism acts as a kind of anarchist economic action, as my friend Colonel of the Reserve Lutz Weinzinger, for example, has already carried out: How did the economic bubble come to Europe, how was it produced and how was it not met? Let us therefore fight feudalism every day and be aware that we should be a free society that is not based on subjection, but that has also acted in the form of a level of self-confidence towards external feudal impulses that are directed against Austria! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] I miss out on clear words from an Austrian government representative regarding the words – I do not want to say bad words now – of a German Finance Minister named Steinbrück. But I also remember that it should not be allowed for an IMF to be cut down by hundreds of percent, then a Mr Krugman comes and calculates the Republic and then the current Minister of Finance trembles, because we say bad things here in Parliament, because we are being watched and we owe ourselves to the rating agencies – some of which we owe exactly the sour soup that has been incubated into us! – must fear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Comrades, thank you! – Ladies and gentlemen, we are all a society of the common state! [[Abg. May. Molterer: I don't feel addressed!]] I appeal that we fight in here, but we have to act as a few people outwards and defend against Austria-oriented feudalim pulses! That is also in one place and in an hour as said today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16499	The next speaker is Mr Mayer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16520	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I didn't know we were at a comrade's meeting today. But that must have been a promise. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We all know: Since autumn 2008, the economic situation has deteriorated in such a way that a global recession has now to be mentioned. Austria is also increasingly affected. Extensive programmes such as Bank Package, Economy Package I and II, tax relief – including family package –, scrapping premium, labour market package, as well as other priorities such as investment in research, education, science, environment and infrastructure, we are holding back this crisis. In this context, it is quite understandable to purchase higher deficits and public debt. [[Abg. Weinzinger:... understand! Slow down!]] However, the need for fiscal consolidation goes hand in hand with the investments now made in order not to impose an excessive burden on subsequent generations. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Please don't forget to thank the Minister!]] This is extremely important to me as a threefold family father. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For example, areas of administrative reform, health reform and education reform must be addressed as soon as possible. We had an interesting and passionate debate on agriculture yesterday. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: A little slower! The lamb doesn't shine yet!]] - Yes, yes. It is particularly important for agriculture and forestry that the budget appropriations for 2009 and 2010 could even be increased slightly. All rural development support programmes can thus be fully financed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, however, other financial resources, which are available to farmers as part of the additional modulation, or measures to support dairy farmers, fall victim to the political calculation. The implementation of the market regulation law in this House is to be addressed at the command of the hour and as quickly as possible for the Austrian farmers. – The view in this direction was conscious. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Renewable energy as an economic engine: The Ecopower Act must be implemented as soon as possible. 624 million € are available for eco-power projects this year, but unfortunately hang in the waiting loop because the Eco-power Act in Brussels has not yet been notified. In Austria, we can create up to 75 000 new teaching and jobs by investing in the development of renewable energy sources. Just as mentioned, the positive effect of federal funding for the thermal renovation of € 100 million. Thermal renovation ensures and creates jobs. In this context, I see climate protection as a great opportunity. Within the framework of the EU Climate Change Goals by 2020, 56 000 jobs can be secured and created in Upper Austria alone. EU-wide, a total investment volume of €300 to 500 billion is expected. Photovoltaics and photovoltaic promotion are a special concern to me. That's why I'm asking: As part of the new funding of the Climate and Energy Fund, each with €150 million for 2009 and 2010, the very successful programme for the promotion of small photovoltaic plants has to be continued up to 5 kilowatts. But also Austria's consumers can actively contribute to the fight against crisis by buying domestic food. A conscious purchase decision for domestic food of 30% could create up to 30 000 jobs. I would like to thank the consumers who are already ready to practice this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to cope with crises in the energy sector, we need an energy strategy in Austria. On behalf of the Federal Government, Federal Minister Mitterlehner and Federal Minister Berlakovich are working out an energy strategy in Austria to reach that 34 percent of energy consumption is covered by renewable energy sources by 2020. To this end, I call the three pillars of the Energy Strategy: Security of supply, energy efficiency and renewable energy. Finally, I would like to say the following: The opportunities must be used to place Austria's energy supply on forward-looking, efficient and renewable legs. Investment in the energy system creates important jobs both in small and medium-sized enterprises and in industry, and we need this more than ever. The double budget 2009 and 2010 will take account of these objectives as best as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16620	The next speaker is Mr Linder. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16642	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! When Mrs Tamandl spoke about Carinthia and record debt today and wanted to send us back to Carinthia, I thought of one thing: I'm used to working with numbers, really keeping up with facts – and not making continuous round envelopes. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Carinthia, together with the communities – and you should always remember that we, the Carinthian communities, do not have separate debts, but that we have them in the country of Carinthia – €2 368 in per capita debt. Vienna, of course, stands as a federal capital with €1 835 much better. But, in contrast, the numbers of Lower Austria on the tongue can be broken: There are 4 559 € per head! I think we are very well in the middle of Carinthia, and that should be kept in mind. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] On the sentence “Back to Carinthia”: Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are happy to drive to Carinthia. If Parliament were not out here, I do not know if we would be so much in Vienna. Because Carinthia is just beautiful, we like to drive there, and with us many Viennans who make vacations with us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If the numbers are still not the best – although we are in Carinthia in the middle field – we are working on it. We are making reforms, and we are thinking about how we can get debt repayment. But these are things that are missing in the federal budget. If I can take two or three points out here, I will first come to the subject of health insurance; it is often discussed enough today. From 2009 to 2012, € 600 million is intended for debt repayment – a matter that is certainly useful as it is necessary to relieve the health insurance funds. But, ladies and gentlemen, please do not do without reforms! The reforms must not be missing. It was only two or three days ago that an interview was seen on TV when an employee in Vorarlberg was accused of using a sick person to fly to the Caribbean. An employee of the district health fund Vorarlberg was then interviewed, and he said: Well, if it serves health, that should be all right! – I believe that this is the problem that many of the ladies and gentlemen in the local health fund are not yet aware that they have to change, that they have to think about it and that they have to make reforms! But they know that they get the money from the state, and they can work effortlessly. Another point is the happily announced free kindergarten. As a trained community politician, I sit down every time I hear about the fact that there's something free. I still remember that the afternoon care for schoolchildren was called “free” – but we got so much in the final effect, and the communities were left with such a crumb! [[The speaker points out something small and something big in two gestures.]] If I hear the criticism of the President of the municipality of Mödlhammer or the mayor of Salzburg, who also calls it a hustle and bustle action, I can say: That is what I shall confirm in my opinion! Of these €73 million, which the federal government takes in order to provide the kindergartens for free, 70 000 children per year, the administrative costs are not even left to us at €1,000 per child per year. In my community we are in the lowest area in Carinthia with costs of €3 194 per child and year. I think you should consider whether you are talking about a free kindergarten here or what you call an allowance for the kindergarten year. I think we should consider how to deal with such issues on the part of the federal government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another point of the reforms was the schools. Until yesterday, I thought a lot was done at two hours a week. After the appearance of Mr Faul yesterday, however, I know that the problem is much, much deeper, that the reforms here must go much deeper and more far-reaching. Mr Gaßner, you asked me yesterday if I had something against teachers. – If they act like Mr Faul yesterday, I have something against teachers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At home we strive to teach the children morale and propriety. It would have been the minimum he apologized today. [[Call the BZÖ:Retire, please! - Faul's apologizing!]] [[Call to the SPÖ: Whom shall he apologise for?]] One, ladies and gentlemen, in here – and I am not saying that as a politician, but as a father – I wish my children did not come in contact with a teacher or a director, like Mrs Faul is.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16736	The next item is the speech by Mr Heinzl. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16781	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about Faul? Is he apologizing or not?]] The budget of BMVIT is in the sign of the fight against the economic crisis and against unemployment. From 2009 to 2014 €3.7 billion will be spent annually in the expansion of the infrastructure. 60 percent of these – and this is particularly gratifying, which is €2.3 billion a year – will be invested in the train. This makes the Ministry of Transport an important contribution to supporting economic and employment in the current crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, especially now that the construction industry is suffering massively from the economic crisis: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the Faul?]] The businesses need orders, and people need work. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the free word? Do you know what that is?]] Presumptuous concerns about the financial viability of investments – each single major project from the ÖBB Framework Plan has a positive, public-sector assessment. That is what Mr Westenthaler is not interested in. I assume he doesn't understand. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sharp Attack! Sharp attack from the SPÖ!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the Faul? Tell us something about the lazy!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Is there nothing in there about the lazy?]] In the area of rail tracks, Austria has a high demand for catch-up. 70 percent of the Austrian railways still date from the period of the monarchy. In the coming years, numerous major projects will change Austria's rail network. To name just a few: The West Railway between Vienna and Linz will be expanded four-track, the South Railway will be made more efficient, and the Brenner Base Tunnel will bring a real alternative to the Alpine transit with trucks. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Who is not used! That's the problem!]] All these major projects, ladies and gentlemen, but also the many small projects, such as station renovations and so on, are important steps towards a modern, social and environmental infrastructure. High house! Wifo-chef Aigerer said – and I quote him: Whoever helps quickly helps twice! Investments are essential especially in times of crisis. - Quote. 50 new projects will be launched by the ÖBB and the Asfinag in March and April alone. This expansion of rail and high-level road network ensures 50 000 additional jobs each year and provides hundreds of companies with important contracts. Each euro invested brings benefits to the economy of 2 €. Summary: What does the Investment Plan bring? – To secure jobs – that has already been said: 50 000 additional jobs – fight against youth unemployment, strengthen the economy, orders for small and medium-sized enterprises, forced transport to environmentally friendly rails. Of course, citizens also benefit from the investment: They get modern railway stations as well as faster and safer rail and road connections. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to turn to all those, especially Mr Westenthaler, who are now calling for a Member to apologize to this House. Mr Westenthaler, I am the eleventh year in this house: They must almost apologize to the Austrian citizens and to the House at every plenary session.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16898	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16953	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests at the gallery! We have an integration minister who has answered the question of why there is no own State Secretariat on the important issue of integration: “Because I am very much also a Minister for Integration.” If I look at the budget for the next two years, I would like to say: Unfortunately, it does not look very good with this love of integration and integration policy, because the Ministry of the Interior's sub-budget, from which integration work is also to be financed, will be reduced by €12 million. – So much for the love of Mrs. Fekter on the topic of integration. [[Congratulations to Members Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek and Jury.]] Ms Fekter called for a so-called National Action Plan for Integration about two months ago. We call this National Action Plan the – about – 36. Round table on integration. These round tables always look like experts and NGOs sit together. Unfortunately, the recommendations that come to an end will not be implemented – and that on the topic of integration in the future. If we look at the 2009 and 2010 budgets on how this National Action Plan for Integration is being taught – at least some concrete measures could possibly be taken if the National Action Plan really came into force – we note: The budget for 2009 and 2010 provides for exactly €0 for this ominous action plan for integration. If you ask the Minister for the Interior in the Committee on Budgets how you can imagine all this, how a National Action Plan for Integration can be achieved at all, how any measures can be implemented, she says: We do not need a budget at all, because I am only responsible for coordinating integration work! – This is our Minister of Integration who is so happy to deal with the issue of integration. [[Abg. Großruck: Great she does! She's an excellent minister!]] It is only responsible for coordinating work and other ministries are expected to carry out integration work. We wonder why the topic of integration is located in the Ministry of Police, the Ministry of the Interior. So there is no money in the budget for the National Action Plan. That is, we all know what will come out of it – nothing! If there is no budgetary provision, there is no way to take action and not to make a policy. [[Abg. Großruck: Have you already offered integration?]] But perhaps it is no coincidence that there is no money at all for the National Action Plan for Integration. Perhaps the Minister of the Interior does not want to solve the problems in the area of integration that she has repeatedly mentioned. [[Abg. Großruck: Maybe there are some who do not want to integrate!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Perhaps the ÖVP is considering that it can make much more comfortable and better policy with the problems than solving these problems. Just like in the asylum field. The Minister of the Interior always emphasises that Austria is too attractive for asylum seekers. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's right!]] If you think so as an interior minister, then you have to take measures to make other countries attractive to asylum seekers. [[Abg. Weinzinger: No!]] And what's the minister doing? - That's the opposite! Regarding an asylum directive that would ensure uniform standards in all 27 EU countries, Minister Fekter said: No, we don't! It is alleged that the Minister wants, she repeatedly says, that other EU countries also become attractive to asylum seekers, but with her own policy, she does exactly the opposite. In conclusion, perhaps an information, because here is very often handled with wrong numbers: Austria is in grade 13 among the industrialised countries with regard to the admission of asylum seekers. Rank 13! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17063	The next item is Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17085	Mr President. Mrs. Korun, if I emigrate as an Austrian to another country – for example, if we take Canada or Australia – then I have to prove my language skills and then I have to prove that I can provide and receive myself. This is not in any way specified by us, which is why, unfortunately, we are really an asylum country that everyone can come to. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would now like to refer to the budget, first and foremost, of the Federal Financial Framework Act. I am very grateful and I would also like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister for Finance – that does not matter if he is not here – and Mr Lopata, the State Secretary and all the officials who have worked on it, because I think it is very useful to have a framework law because we can move within this framework, because we can make a continuation and because we can achieve and achieve certain flexibility for our ministers as well. [[Call the FPÖ: It's not there!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] To refer back to the Budget Committee: I don't think that's necessary at all. If we did not decide the 2009 and 2010 budgets, then the budget would be rewritten until June, then there would be another deadline, and then we would have to decide the budgets at the latest. So that's why we're timely, and I think that's good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A tax increase has already been mentioned several times today. – I’m against a property tax in principle, because: Who will pay the property tax? In Austria, we have already heard that 2.7 million Austrians do not pay income tax, nor pay wage tax. And we have 85 billion € in transfers, ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean? 85 billion in transfer payments? Who pays these transfers? – I can tell you: The entrepreneurs pay two thirds of this €85 billion. And who are our entrepreneurs? – The small farms, because we don’t have so many big! So I say No to a property tax! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us look at the international comparison, namely the Gini coefficient, in which it is presented how the inequality of income or wealth is. Zero would be particularly positive, would be the best, and 1 the worst. Austria has 0.27. We are in fourth place, and that is very positive! Austria is a great country, Austria has a lot of social benefits, and it cannot be said that Austria has a big difference between the poor and the rich. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have already said that entrepreneurs have to bear the main burden of taxes and transfer payments, and I can confirm that as far as European entrepreneurs are concerned. I was last week – the members of the Federal Government, the German Chancellor was not – in Prague. We had a large meeting of entrepreneurs there, and there too it was clearly stated: The main burden is borne by small and medium-sized enterprises, and is borne by the small and medium-sized enterprises. I was very surprised and positive yesterday when Mrs Rudas and many others discovered the middle class as their target group. Who is the middle class? – We are the middle class. On the other hand, there will be tax increases again. I'm really excited, very much honored Ladies and gentlemen, what is going on in the next few months and years. Then it will also be shown who really is for the middle class and who this is only a lip confession. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17149	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Haimbuchner. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17171	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Donabauer von der ÖVP spoke of “Mut” today. He said that the opposition would have had too little courage to go to the government after the 2008 election, but perhaps one could accompany the ÖVP – that is what he clearly understood – once. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, we are not at a monitoring agency, but we are here in the House, we are here in Parliament. And that is the problem of the Austrian People's Party: You always need someone to get you in power! But you would really need someone who gives you courage, courage for the right decisions, Mr Bartenstein, courage in the field of tax policy, courage in the field of education policy. They have not even established a proper educational reform, but once again it is only about: Who Can Obstacle Who? The youth is always spoken of. – What are you doing for the youth? I shall ask you this question here in the House again and again. In fact, they do nothing for young people. In the education system, you don't do anything for the youth. Nor do they do anything for the preservation of the home country, whether it is about the intact environment or also about the preservation of cultural identity. There would be a need for courage! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would also need courage in the area of asylum policy. Where is the courage of Mrs Fekter on the right to stay? [[Abg. Grill: That's where the blind one speaks of the color!]] In the light of Mrs Korun's statement from the Greens, the task of the European Union must be to prevent illegal immigration into Europe. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] That would be the task, not a liberalisation of the asylum system with any asylum directive, after which, after six months of continuous employment, one will have the right to unemployment benefit. – We certainly do not need that, ladies and gentlemen. Where was the courage in government and administration reform, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? Mr Donabauer – he is not here now – you have had the constitutional majority. There are enough reasonable proposals for a corresponding reform. Where was the courage? That's where you left the courage. But do you know where you, the big parties, have always had courage? – Have courage She was in debt. You have shown a great deal of courage, and the President of the Federal Republic has shown a great deal of courage when he opposes posters from the Freedom Party – for example: “Abendland in Christian hand” – has stated. But the President of the Federal Republic has also had the courage to give the Czech President Václav Klaus, who continues to justify the expulsion of the Sudeten Germans to the highest order of the Republic. – Yes, you are so courageous in this state, ladies and gentlemen. I would think seriously about that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] We really need more courage, for example in education policy. For young families we need more courage, for an intact home, for performance, for tax justice. We must give young people a future, real prospects and an intact home. That's what the Freedom Party stands for! But in this budget it is not even possible to realize that you are giving young people the future they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17244	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17266	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! There is no alternative to this budget, the experts in hearing have determined unanimously. This is a fight against the crisis because key areas in this budget provide relief and support for people and benefit those most urgently in need. In particular, particular attention has been paid to labour market, social affairs, infrastructure and health, to name just a few areas. When I say 'health', I mean health insurance; there is a need for rehabilitation and reform. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The health insurance institutions, the health insurance companies are not accidental in the situation they are now in. There is a so-called record of actors for the years 2001 to 2006 drawn up by the main association, in which the main association presents the effects of federal laws. On the morning, colleague Stumvoll said to my colleague Krainer whether we have a syndrome that we have been doing over and over again in recent years – a trauma, good. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: A trauma!]] The same thing I could hold out to you when it comes to keeping us back and forth the 1970s and debt policy. Obviously this is also a trauma. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: These are facts!]] But back to the player balance: In the years 2001 to 2006, the local health phone was taxed by 345 million, while the federal carriers were massively under the arms of the federal government – with 276 million. Without this legal withdrawal or withdrawal, the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse would have generated a surplus of € 155 million between 2001 and 2006. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a statement from me, but it is a statement by the Court of Auditors. Therefore, it is necessary and right that we relieve the health insurance funds with the double budget 2009/2010 in order to secure our high-quality health system. We need to be careful that we do not slip into a two-class medicine that we already have in some areas, for example the specialist doctors in some districts. Specific example: I wanted an appointment with the ophthalmologist in January. March, ten weeks later, get it. I then examined the situation with the doctors in the district, and the result was disillusioning: Up to 100 working days Wait for an appointment; that's 20 weeks. Some patients should have died before having an appointment with their doctor. The waiting time, however, is not the only unpleasant one. The next problem is the relationship between cash doctors and election doctors. That's 39 to 61 percent – 61 percent electoral doctors! Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about quality, because these are more well-known specialists, but about the need for patients to submit. If a patient has many doctors to visit – and this sometimes happens at a certain age – then he has a nice rod to catch and advance money because it takes several months to recover from the health insurance funds. This situation is not satisfactory. There is also a need for reform because we can no longer believe this condition to the patient. But back to the budget: If I look at the government debt in the federal financial framework 2009 to 2013, with a public debt of 78.5 percent in 2013, I mean, you also have to ask yourself how we get down from this high debt ratio again. This is about everyone having to make a fair contribution, and this should also make courage for reforms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17319	The next item is Mr Grosz. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17340	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Leave the lazy outside, please!]] Dear Counted 19 delegates of the Social Democracy! I am certainly not sorry, and I am certainly also in favour and a representative of the opinion that there is an emotional need to exchange political views. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, I ask you to listen to me! [[Abg. Riepl: Come on! But that is very strenuous!]] I am also of the opinion that emotional speeches here express the following: that with heart and soul one is behind his political viewpoints. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Do you have one?]] All of us should be distinguished because we should not be technocrats, but representatives of the population who are genuinely at heart for the best of our country. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But what happened here yesterday at this speaker's desk of the Republic lacks any basis. This not only comments me, but it now also comments on countless media in Austria. That's what the leaf forest comments. What was done yesterday by Mr Faul is another damage to the reputation of politics and a shame to this House. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am really looking for you, let us keep this discussion quiet, let us conduct it objectively. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: That's why I ask!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I quote from the Stenographical Protocol: “(The speaker, during his remarks, repeatedly beats the speaker with his hand.) ...’ (Heiterheit und demonstrative Belief bei der FPÖ. - Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz goes to the speaker's desk and gives the speaker a handkerchief.) – Do you have sniffs, or what? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Further: “Small Grosz, go back! Leave me alone! This has failed.” [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] “You’re just around the skull too small where the brain should be inside, and that’s why you should be quiet!” I know that is what pleases the back three rows of the Freedom Party – and only the ones. The Freedom Party has this primacy, because even social democracy sees it a little different today. [[Call at the SPÖ: Excellent is something else!]] [[Abg. Grossruck: Primat is a monkey!]] Member of the Commission: Mr Faul: “No, he’s going on the ‘hander’ like that, that’s unimaginable! Could you not do anything for your escape...?” “They’re a crocodile for me in the zodiac: a big ‘Papp’n’ and a little brain – I have to tell you that one day.” “That’s impossible how it behaves – in the newspapers and all around.” [[Abg. May. Gässner: Shouldn't you say something to the budget?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Faul said yesterday about the budget and I was the main subject of these attacks, it is for me to comment briefly on this. Of course, I can already find the context in which the education budget seems to be very low if we do such primary school directors in the future. But that would be polemic again, and I don't want to be that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Since when?- Oh, my God!]] However, what I think is particularly curious is that, apart from the fact that he is not even in the House today, because he is missing for his salary of €8 400 hours here in the plenary room, it is not man's enough to step out of this speaker's seat of the Republic of Austria and apologise. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You're lying again!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President! “They lie!” Member of the Gässner, Intercessor: “They lie!”]] I think that is what this House is calling for. [[Abg. Riepl: Police are committing by car! Like Mr Westenthal!]] I'm not hesitant. I say quite honestly to you, for me personally, this matter is dealt with with with an apologies. The political dimension is not to be discussed by me, nor am I discussing it. Mr Faul, in any situation, seems to have a one-sided, subjective private commitment. If he apologizes, I say – like your chancellor; who was that quick? –: Swamm over, between us both done! What is to be discussed here is that such a Member of this House, even in such a state as he was in yesterday, has the right to speak here, that he is still a member of this House 16 hours later, and that a Member of Parliament, acting in this way, is head of primary school and is released to the children and young people in Austria. – This is the political dimension to be clarified! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: What do you think?! Do you know how to become a Member of this House? Not by the grace of the Lord Grosz!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The political message can therefore only say: Mr Faul, show your character, show your propriety, take your hat, explain your resignation, and also finish your educational career, because what you have listed here and in what emotion you seem to remember to discuss with other people is also a shame for the Austrian education system! Pull the only logical consequence and free us from your presence, Mr Deputies! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A sentence on the budget, because that's what it's all about. It was discussed all day today. There's nothing new coming! This whole general debate would lead to ad absurdum, the government parties explain because nothing new is coming. I'll explain something new to you: They present to this House a budget which can and must be criticized from a variety of points of view. They submit a budget that does not even keep in mind the approach in its figures. They present a budget which does not provide for any measures to combat the 500 000 unemployed we have to expect in Austria by the end of the year in order to combat this high unemployment in any area. But what you are presenting to us is the continuation of what we have often discussed at this speaker's desk: Travel costs for travel abroad with € 2.8 million; [[Abg. Riepl: Was that the Gorbach?]] Advertisers of a federal government, used in party political terms, amounting to €34 million; [[Abg. Riepl: That was the Gorbach!]] salary costs in your inflated ministerial offices amounting to € 23 million; [[Abg. Riepl: Again the Gorbach!]] Flight costs for your readings and your scheduled flights amounting to 17.8 million €. And for garnishing, as a sugar scatter: Taxi costs of € 919 000 in a city like Vienna with the best-developed public transport network in Austria. [[Abg. Riepl: Again and again the Gorbach!]] You have slippers, you have carriages, you have Paladine, you can be carried through the country, but you will also charge taxi costs of € 919 000. Klubobmann Kopf said to me today: Yes, do you want to make politics like that? You want to define politics with such peanuts? The final sum of these “Peanuts”, ladies and gentlemen, is € 126 million in two years, which you spend for representation costs, for your travel expenses and for your court-government agitation, evidently reminding you of the monarchy. [[Abg. Jury: Sourry!]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ]] You have money for that! [[Abg. Jury: Sourry!]] But for those people who really need it in this country, you have no money: There has been no increase in the number of people with disabilities for five years, only €72 million for this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] That is why this budget in no way deserves our approval, and we will therefore reject it. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, is really for crying! That is why I will, of course, be happy to use your handkerchief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17687	For the interlocutory call of Mr Gaßner towards Mr Grosz: “They’re lying!” I’m giving him a call for order. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You'll be on the lead soon!]] [[Abg. May. Gässner: Mr. Westenthaler pissed me!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Whenever the grosz is at the speaker's desk, the SPÖ gets an order call!]] I would ask you to bear in mind that we still have three spectators, and since we do not want to dispel them, I ask you to hold back from the speaker's desk and from anywhere else. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Can Mr. Westenthaler!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Singer. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17762	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen listeners! Mr President, I will accept your request and speak very objectively about the budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The times are difficult. We certainly do not need to speak up about the crisis, but it is not the duty of politics to be agitated and unnecessarily insecured. The Minister of Finance has carried out its tasks with the budget and has made a non-complicated gap between the fight against the crisis and a stable state budget at the same time. I would like to congratulate very, very cordially! With anticyclic economic policy, the Federal Government sets the right accents. The experts – as part of the budget hearing in this house – also assured us. Now, for people and businesses, there is a need for a tangible relief that gives courage to invest and consume. What we do not need now is new burdens, which again only hit those medium-sized taxpayers who are already securing our prosperity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The budgets show a very, very high deficit, but half of this deficit is due to those stabilizers with which we now intervene to master the difficult situation. With the budgeted measures, we can also make serious progress on the most important issue at present – the safeguarding of jobs. Policy cannot prevent unemployment, but it can create framework conditions to keep as many people as possible in the work process. Important steps have been taken in this direction with these budgets. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, the Minister for Finance is also aware of the challenge of medium-term deficit reduction. It is important to keep this in mind, because that is also a question of responsibility to our future generations. That is why I welcome the fact that there are deficits over the economic cycle and that consolidation is primarily on the expenditure side. The Federal Government has already demonstrated its competence of action before budgeting. With a comprehensive tax reform, two economic packages and an effective family package have put it in place where it helps people specifically. I am pleased that the Family Package has also taken care of the mandatory free kindergarten year in the budget. I am also pleased that in Upper Austria – together with funds from the country, the federal government and the municipalities – the Free Kindergarten was made possible from the age of two and a half years. This is an essential relief for young people and a strengthening of consumption. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Acting anticyclically and taking money into control right now also has the goal of gaining people's confidence: Trust in the economy, but also in the state institutions. One important aspect is the safety for which the Minister of the Interior provides more staff. This means that more police officers on the streets are making for more safety. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The overarching importance of the European Union is particularly evident in difficult times. No country can cope with a crisis alone. It needs the merger of several equal partners, just as it is guaranteed by the EU – a community that has achieved its economic impact primarily through the single currency. Today, the former critics also have to acknowledge that those countries that are outside the euro area are being hit even harder by the crisis. Today, more than ever, the common Europe is an effective shield against global economic threats. I would also like to appeal to you not to ignore the lower units in this Europe. We need strong regions and communities that must not be starved, but that they must be able to assume their social responsibility close to the people. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that these budgets are a good condition for meeting the challenges of tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17865	Mr Zinggl spoke next. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17886	Mr President, you have almost rightly pointed out that only three people are sitting in the gallery. There were a little more, but in the meantime it's already less since some have gone. Since about 10 a.m., 10.30 a.m., ladies and gentlemen, the house is only one third occupied. I do not think that this is because of the lack of good will of Members, but rather because of the lack of opportunities. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grill: You should be quiet! How many greens?]] - No, no, we already counted that. [[Abg. Grill: Four greens!]] – Well, listen, I'll explain it to you! You just have to listen. [[Abg. Grill: Let's count from 5 p.m. on how many greens there are! ... unimaginable!]] - Yeah, not even with us. I'll explain to you why: Because there is no way at all to discuss something else here. It just makes little sense and no fun at all to discuss for weeks something that is already finished. [[Abg. Grillitsch: You don't have fun, I believe you!]] If everything is complete, if there is no possibility of change and improvement at all, if there is no means of influence at all, then Parliament has lost its competence, so to speak. [[Abg. Grill: Go home!]] This double budget is tied up, it's done. You know everything anyway and are totally immune to arguments and proposals on our part, don't you? Then what should we sit down for now and look at all of this?- Oh, my God! We already know – it is quite clear – that money has to be taken up, that debt has to be made. It's out of the question. In two points, however, we do not agree: The one point is what the money is used for, and the second point is how it needs to be repaid. Especially in times of crisis – and in particular by the ÖVP itself again and again – there should be such a thing as a national end of the shoulder and a common will to deal with these crises. But this cannot be expected to dictate what is to be done, and we agree, but it is very much about negotiations, and we have been taken away from these possibilities for negotiation. It would have been necessary to negotiate what economic adjustment and improvement measures there could really have been. This could have been done very well in these two weeks, just as programmes could have been developed, as the debts are repaid. It would have been worth it, and we might have reached a consensus for that. Then democracy would have gained liveliness! But the government parties are too good at it! The Minister of Finance is here for an hour in the early days, the opposition critique is very arrogant and self-confident that he is doing everything right. Ladies and gentlemen, we are only in the first phase of this crisis, and this is the more pleasant one: the one in which we simply make debts, we are taking up money. Now we have done nothing, and in fact this government has not proved at all that it can start doing something out of debt with the crisis. In our view, the current economic recovery recipes are not very inspired. Half of them are from other countries, the other half is somehow out of the textbook for helplessness, and so it is actually a very technological matter. It's a shame you don't take our criticism seriously at all. They will also have to assume the sole responsibility in four years, when everything collapses. We would have been willing to go the way together now, but if you could better do it alone, then do it alone! You will also see what is happening to you in four, five years, and then you will also realize that these weeks of discussion here were completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18001	Next, Mr Magistrate. Gaßner to speak. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18033	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Mr President, I take note of the call for order in all humility. However, I would like to point out that Mr Grosz meant that Mr Faul was not in the house. - That's the untruth. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is he? In the canteen?]] [[Abg. Grosz: On the fridge!]] Mr Faul is in Parliament, so I have let myself be caught up in telling this gentleman the lie. A second sentence. [[Abg. May. Stadler sits in his place and writes.]] - Oh, now the third party is also here: Quack, quack, quack! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Were you also on the fridge? If you listen that way...!]] I would also like to point out that Mr Faul had the size of even publicly apologizing for his exit in the ORF. [[Abg. Grosz: He didn't!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He didn't do that!]] I have not yet noticed this with these two gentlemen. But I understand: You wouldn't have time to talk in terms of content. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a sentence on the agricultural budget. This budget is one that has even grown a little. The ÖVP speakers in front of me have already pointed out that it has a lot of good in itself for farmers, for our farmers. I hear the customer well, alone, I miss a little bit of faith. There you have to explain to me why farmers today – and not so few at all – think it necessary to demonstrate before Parliament. This is what we are with the dairy farmers again, and I have a proposal for a solution: I suggest that the amount of milk be reduced by 5 percent. That would be an important and correct signal. Now, of course, I do not intend to propose the size of the farmland, but this proposal comes from Helmut Brunner from the CSU, the Bavarian minister. So there, too, you think and become active now. I believe that the time has come for a thorough review of the agricultural policy of the last decades, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. A second approach is also quite, very essential: I think there really must be more justice in the distribution policy. If I see that – such an APA message, I think, yesterday – AGRANA, although it receives 15.9 million € of Group loss, pays dividends, 1,95 € per share, and if I read that the same AGRANA, now to be read in the daily newspapers, receives 2.9 million € of subsidies, then I wonder if this funding system is fair. If I figure out how many dairy farmers would have something to give them, I have to say, it is really high time to consider this system. [[Abg. Grill: How much per litre of milk?]] I believe that this budget is really the starting point for us to consider a new, better agricultural policy. [[Abg. Hornek: These are only phrases!]] Mr Grillitsch, if we do not, you know exactly what we are doing with the policy of the last few years, we are going all the way to the wall. Ladies and gentlemen, one more sentence. In view of the fact that elections are always being fought by the Upper Austrian MPs today, Mr Wöginger considered it necessary to highlight the economic package of the country. [[Call to the ÖVP: Right he has!]] - He's right, you mean. No, he's not quite right. I need to correct him a little. Now I have looked at the press release of Mr. Landes Captain, and there is the first correction I have to make: The economic budget is not a billion, but the economic budget is 1.4 billion. - Point one. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That smells like “It’s enough! ”]] 1.4 billion is in this press release. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Yes, over 1 billion!]] The free kindergarten is also inside, by the way, which you have talked about. And of these 1.4 billion, two thirds, 900 million euros, from the budget of Haider, public transport, from the budget building of our housing council, Hermann Kepplinger, and the hospital financing of Silvia Stöger. - That's just the completeness half. And this is also confirmed by the head of state, who says: All parties have agreed to do so together. [[Abg. Wöginger: I also said!]] And as far as the kindergarten is concerned, one thing is already exciting: ==References== In December 2008, Mr. Sigl, State Councillor in Upper Austria, nor the Mayor of Vöcklabruck – not a red mayor, but a black mayor – dared to offer kindergarten free of charge in Vöcklabruck from January of this year, with the following words: If the city believes it has to offer the kindergarten free of charge, it will not get the cost contribution to the staffing effort of € 220 000 from the country. [[Abg. Grossruck: Do you speak to the budget or what?]] Well, that's double-bedded! A few months ago, you were still against the free kindergarten, and now, because election is, you are for it. Just so much for correcting the statements. But here we are in the Vienna Parliament and not in Upper Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18258	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18279	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! It is clear to us, of course, that it will hardly be possible in the context of this debate, even with the best of arguments, to achieve a rupture of this budget. There are, however, two points which I would like to put to your heart, and I would ask you to consider whether we can still change these points. One issue – we discussed it briefly yesterday – concerns the right to visit separated parents who want to see their children. There are now no insignificant court fees, and I know from individual discussions with mandaters, including the government parties, that one might want to think about whether this point could not be changed. It would be very nice to take this step. A second issue, also related to court fees: It will also be true now that within the framework of the expertise, there will be no significant cost to people with learning weaknesses. Here again, I ask you to take a closer look at this measure and to make sure that these people who do not have it very easy in life are not taxed by any additional fee. So that's my great request to the two government parties. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a gratification we are currently taking, because on the one hand, we have to take measures to ensure that unemployment in Austria does not increase even more than is expected by experts, and on the other hand, because we have to ensure that everything we spend is paid back. And, of course, it must be paid by the taxpayer. However, there are also measures which do not impose additional burdens on the public budget for a longer period of time, and this is, for example, the preference of infrastructure measures. I'm sorry. That is to say, expenditure that would have been planned in the future would simply start earlier and thus fight unemployment now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let me give you an example. Public buildings will be transformed into accessible buildings in the next few years. This must come and will come as well – all ministries confess to it. It would be wise to take these construction measures now, to implement them now. So there is no additional expenditure, no, we only prefer these investments and now we are making them, where unemployment is particularly high, now that the public sector also has a high level of expenditure in the context of this unemployment – unemployment benefit, loss of social security contributions, training measures and so on. A second measure: Mr. Federal Minister, as part of the thermal renovation, we invest €100 million. They once argued in a conversation that we are causing about €700 million of investment and that we are sure of about 7 000 jobs. A unemployed person costs about € 15 000 to € 20 000 in the year, with the entire “joint music. ” That is, if we put this up, then this measure costs us nothing now, now, at this time when unemployment is so high. If we can actually trigger €700 million with these €100 million, if that succeeds, then we will save more money on the one hand in the context of unemployment expenditure than we spend on the other hand for this thermal rehabilitation. Therefore, it makes sense to carry on and invest even more. I would therefore ask you again, in the form of a preference for infrastructure measures, to effectively combat unemployment in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18354	The next point is Mr Obernoster. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18376	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! This budget has been prepared by our Minister of Finance and Deputy Chancellors, with the help of the best experts with best knowledge and conscience, subject to the condition of creating jobs, strengthening the middle class and the economy so that the economic crisis can be handled as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This budget discussion lasts for six days. For a day and a half, we have been discussing a lot of emotion, as all of us have come along. There is also a need for criticism, not a question, but sometimes this criticism, in my opinion, is also very inaccurate. I do not want to address yesterday's remarks by Mr Faul and Mr Grosz. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: It's better too!]] Such things are to be condemned, they are also not worthy of this house, one being, I say, provocative and the other holding emotionally. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] But that doesn't excuse both of them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If I take the Minutes of yesterday's speech by Mr Grosz to hand, it says that as far as the EIA is concerned: “Irration and dishonesty” are “an inheritance of the Austrian People’s Party”. [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard!]] – Mr Grosz! Think about it before you talk to others about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This budget was assessed by the opposition as follows: The budget is negligent, the budget is lazy, record debt, budget: Not enough!, an apprenticeship work, this budget cannot be accounted for. Mr Klubobmann and Mr Bucher today make a request for referral back. – As a Carinthian, I have to say that I am with you, dear colleague Bucher, one opinion: We live in the most beautiful state of Austria and love to go back to Carinthia – that is no question at all – but I do not agree with the budget policy of the country of Carinthia. I would not have mentioned it, but if just the Carinthian Members brought this budget as an example, I just have to stop it. [[Call BZÖ: What?]] - A newspaper, for example. Here's what it says: Divided among the population, from the newborn to the big, 2009 results in a per capita debt of €3 837. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Why did the ÖVP agree?]] The Socialists voted in favour of this. You can also prove that. Now I quote a broadcast from the Landespressedienst – please listen, Mr. Strutz! - of 14. October 2005: At the end of 2003 the then head of state declared the per capita debt at €932. – €932 per capita debt in 2003 and €3 837 per capita debt in 2009: I don't need to calculate that, and let's forget that all the home estate has still been sold. [[Call at BZÖ:... the most modern hospital in Europe built!]] – That is, incidentally, not yet funded in this budget. Furthermore, I would just like to say that the Carinthian hospitals were all sold around €350 million, and bought back €700 million. But I do not want to have a Carinthian debate on this issue here. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] When these figures came to the table, BZÖ Council of State and Finance Officer Dobernig – I quote – said: I am not going to let this budgetary policy beat me. I am not responsible for this budgetary policy. This budget was made by the former head of state. – Statement by the BZÖ Finance Council a few weeks ago. Landesrat Rogger recently – Ragger, yes! –: [[Abg. Bucher: Ragger!]] Due to the budgetary situation, Carinthia is currently the only country that reintroduces the regress payments for old-age homes because we cannot afford them. And this at a time, I have to say, in which we have had a high economy! And that's why I - and I agree with that - am opposed to these "successful" comments on the Federal Budget by my colleagues, whom I appreciate very much otherwise. However, Mrs Haubner has said here today – and I can only agree with you here – that the reform course of the Republic has come to a standstill and has stopped half way. In the years 2000 to 2006 under the government of Schüssel, as much was reformed as never before. And then it came to the floor, it has stopped, you really have to say that quite clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Something has to be clear to us, too: If we want to get this budget back on track, and we have to do that, then we have to go back to these reforms, with all our strength. I invite the opposition parties to participate in administrative reform, health care, education, pension reform, personnel policy and so on, so as to get this budget back into control. I would like to say the following about the financial transaction and speculation tax that our then Chancellor Schüssel and also our Minister of Finance and Vice-Cancellor Pröll has often discussed: Let us help introduce this tax across Europe. This would put the European budget on its own and relieve Austria of approximately €2.2 billion. In conjunction with the administrative reform, this would be a good way to get the budget back under control in Austria after the years 2012/13. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18511	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. I would point out, however, that I would like to interrupt the speech on the call for urgent request at 3 p.m. Do you want to start? [[Abg. Don't worry.]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18538	Mr President. High house! Dear ministers! Mr. Minister! I am pleased that Mrs Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Stöger are still here, too, because I wanted to address these two people separately in my speech today. I hope that's what's going on before, otherwise just after the call of the gottay ones. Now to the women's budget. – With the increase in the budget, the Minister is satisfied with the budget for women. If the women budget is 0.13 permill of the total budget, you can't really be satisfied either. I am not really satisfied with the answers we received to our written questions in the context of the budget consultations, because the answers are partly not satisfactory or contradictory. The answer to a question, e.g. concerning the care facilities, is as follows: Women's care facilities should not be evaluated as they are already fully documented. In a further reply, however, the Minister writes that the interpretation costs and the needs of the languages are not in detail. So you should be evaluated here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18565	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have announced, I would now ask you to interrupt your remarks so that the requested debate of a urgent question can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[In the case of BZÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. Donate.]] [[15:00:35]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues to the Federal Minister for the Interior on errors in the fight against right-wing extremism (2100/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18605	We arrive at urgent treatment of the written question 2100/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18853	I declare Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek as the first questioner to state the reasons for the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Abg. Dr. Moser: The minister is not here!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President, the Minister for the Interior is not here yet!]] - Wait a minute, please. I am interrupting the meeting until the Minister for the Interior is present, so that we can have her in the debate. The meeting was suspended in the short term.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18902	I'll start the interrupted session again. The President-in-Office of the Council, Dr Glawischnig, has already given the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18935	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Once again, there is an occasion for Austria and its dealings with the National Socialist past to become international and national headlines, and once again there is the opportunity to discuss the handling of political representatives with these incidents. Claus Raidl said it very clearly yesterday in the “Report” – I quote it –: Unfortunately, I have to say that it really hurts the image of Austria. We are economically very good, we are known as a friendly, successful country, but these things are, unfortunately, news – apart from being terrible – which are in the world press’s entrance, and I think we in Austria must take this very, very seriously. - Quote. We have to do this, and that is why we have today prepared a urgent question to Mrs Fekter. I also take a second note of Claus Raidl very seriously, which says: The politicians will never be hard at the general commemorative celebrations. – And just a few days ago, we just celebrated a commemoration against violence and racism, all of us here together in this house. – Return to Raidl: Policymakers are very easy to take a stand at such general celebrations, to say something general, but obviously they are very difficult to say something specific and correct in specific occasions. In general terms, the attack on the concentration camp survivors and the insulting of them at the Ebensee commemorative celebration are “recital provocation” which is due to provocations between the right and the left, as they always stand, the Minister of the Interior, it is unlikely that this insolence can no longer be surpassed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to give you once again the description of what has actually happened there. There were French visitors in the visitor tunnel, there were also camp survivors present, including Henry Ledroy, a 89-year-old survivors of Ebensee. Among them was the witness who The ORF also described very detailedly: Daniel Simon, President of the French Mauthausen Committee. He became eyewitnesses and victims of these incidents. He describes it this way: It was half past ten o'clock in the morning, we were on our way with other visitors, including Henry Ledroy, in the visitor tunnel. I don't know if you know the place, whether you've already been there – I suppose, sure. There is a brick wall there with a cast window and a tunnel part that has been completely unchanged since 1945. Here the visitors stood and left the place on their own and in doing so they felt their memories, their thoughts, even their weariness probably – and at this moment, as they describe it, suddenly a man with black blouson, military pants and jumpers boots, a black hood over the face and a machine gun in his hand. He went from left to right in the step and made the Hitler greeting. A minute later came a second and executed the same, and then a third came, always changing the direction. Daniel Simon then got to feel one of the shot down plastic balls on the sleep, another traveling companion one on the bake. Now I would like to ask you very strongly: Where do you see a ‘ mutual provocation ’ here? Where's the mutual uplift? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think it is also necessary to tell or describe once again what has actually happened in this camp in Ebensee. It was a side camp of Mauthausen. In November 1943, the first prisoners of Mauthausen were transferred there, they had to carry out of the mine with mere hands, out of this tunnel of rock. Within these 18 months, where people were tortured and killed, 8,000 people die in that place. ==References== On May 14, 1945, American troops reached Ebensee and freed the camp. After 1945, after the war there were very few who had been sentenced, but in processes only in Germany. There was no condemnation in Austria. That's just for the background. I think it's important that we take another look at what actually happened there. There were other visitors there who did not know anything about this incident, who can tell very positive life stories, who are also very involved in the investigation work, who approach young people who feel that this is also a liberation to talk about. For example, Ladislaus Zuk, a Polish Jew who was freed from Ebensee with a weight of 36 kilograms and who had an incredibly positive life story behind him, who knew six words and then married a Lake Ebenseeer and found a second home there. He expressly advocates an intensive dialogue with these young people and is convinced that U-port and prison are not the right thing for them. He thinks that one does not come around the nuisance that such stories, such life-sicks, provoke. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I have to ask you again, Mrs. Inner Minister: Before all these stories and before the pictures of these people, who are some 89, 90 years old and older, who have a very different life story to tell, isn't it an inconceivable derailment to turn around here and to calculate it? Obviously, it was a first spontaneous reaction. They have needed two more attempts to express themselves more unambiguously to this incident. But the question remains whether this basic attitude, which is behind it, when something like this happens, can be made a victim of provocateurs immediately, decisively opposed to right-wing extremism in Austria. You have to answer this question today. I would like to tell another story that is still exaggerating your error, and this is one of the Klubobmann Strache, who obviously was either there or knew about eyewitness or eyewitness reports, as this incident has occurred there. At the conference, he said that the events in Ebensee were to be condemned, but at the same time he presented his real view of things. In this stable, the young people would have played week after week. On the day of events, there had first been a dispute between young people and visitors, resulting in ‘ stupid talkers. ’ The boys were pulled at the ears, talked with them plain text, gave a decent treat – but not for weeks in U-haft. So, now there are some questions here. Either the colleague Strache was there, I don't think that's what no one believes, or he has been told what happened there – but obviously not by the victims who describe it quite differently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] Or he does exactly the same thing: He impoverishes such an incident, simply turns the victim and perpetrator spiral and makes the victims provocateurs. He's talking about conflict. All this screams after an official excuse from the official representatives of the country Austria. That's what the victims are waiting for to this day! I think that would be a good opportunity today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have the concern – and I believe they have a lot of people in Austria – that the lessons of this past are not decidedly enough and that we do not take decisive action against right-wing extremism, hidden anti-Semitism and also open anti-Semitism in Austria. Over the years, certain trends seem to be confirmed here, and this can also be understood by concrete administrative acts and concrete administrative acts that no longer happen. It has caused a great deal of distress and wonder, Mrs. Interior Minister, that you have announced as a consequence, you will now look closer to the scene. The question arises what has actually happened so far – has it not been the case that the scene has been looked closer, it has been observed? Obviously not. There has been an increase in the number of ads due to re-activities in recent years, there are more and more. There are obviously also such persons as David Ernest Duke, a neonazist agitator, who can appear completely unlit in Austria and is not observed at all. Obviously there is no resource for this, or you don't want to do it, or you just don't want to. You, Mrs Minister, now have the opportunity to explain why some observations are simply no longer taking place, why the constitutional protection has stopped producing its own right-wing extremism report, why right-wing citizens are no longer seen in the general constitutional protection report, neo-Nazi activity in this context. You can also explain why, by chance, the year 2000/01 began, these reports were no longer transmitted to the National Council in full transparency and in full reckless openness. I would also ask you to dissuade the accusation that this has to do with a call for the magazine “Currently”, the Mölzer magazine, in which attention has been paid and demanded, the government colleagues of the ÖVP may come here and no longer make these reports, no longer observe citizens, and thus no longer ensure transparency about planned activities. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They are observed every day! At every event, the Constitutional Protection is there! With everyone!]] I'd like to bring it to your attention once again: By the year 2000/01, there were 30 citizens who had been observed over and over again, their invitation policy, which discussions took place. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They're still watching!]] Since then, there has been no single line in an official report. There are now two variants, also thought logically: Either they have completely changed their activities or the perceptions are simply not given to Parliament transparently. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Mr Graf, I would like to ask certain questions to the Minister before you are going to intervene, but I would like to come to the FPÖ and also to you. Unfortunately, this is not avoidable. One is the question of administrative action: Is everything really done, is really observed, is it enlightened? What does prevention programs actually look like? What offers are there for young people to get out of the far right scene? Why Must a Memorial? Tollhausen complain that she has too few resources, too few capacities to offer guided tours? How is it possible that a memorial to Mauthausen will be lurked? Why is not more protected and protected here? How does it come to such inconceivable statements as “What our fathers of the Jew” were, is now the Moslem Bridge ”? That's a quote, a terrible quote. How is it possible that this is still happening in Austria? Why Care You're not here for more security and more resources? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How about the statements from your own department that there is no reason to observe a neonazist agitator like David Duke in Austria? Faith Don't you think that Austria is extremely damaging in the medium term and that it is also extremely poisoning the political climate in this country, if one is constantly carrying out an eye twinkling in these agitations, if one does not only leave this incorruption and that salonable-make, this relativization of the entire past, these methods of recalculation uncommendated, but sometimes even itself as you do in this case? We would like to have a certain degree of security for the future that really everything is done to combat right-wing extremism in Austria. That is what I am now doing in the political debate, particularly in the field of FPÖ. Mr. Strache, you have participated in a demonstration of the Dammstraße citizens' initiative, for which a clearly neo-Nazi initiative has also been advertised on an internet homepage, which is written by the “memorial day against racism and violence in the Austrian Quatschbude”. You have nothing to do with this homepage, but I would still ask you to do other things that are on this homepage, for example: “Stänkerjude Muzicant requires more brainwashing”... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We don't want to read it at all, such a horrific thing! You're reading it!]] You have nothing to do with this homepage, but what is the difference then? [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] They held it together, side by side, at this demonstration with those people who called for it. But where is there any difference when a third President of the National Council comes up with the same statement? – Musiciant complains of the culture of harmonizing in Austria. This is, I believe, a legitimate expression of opinion that the President of the Israeli Cultural Community may make; I personally believe that he is right. You don't have to share his opinion, but if you come with the same cult as on this homepage: classic Austrian explorer, then I ask you: What is the difference, what is actually the difference? Can you explain this to us, Mr. Graf? And then you always complain, you're going to be misunderstandingd, and say you wouldn't mean all of this. That's all very clear. You mean that. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I wasn't misunderstandingd! That's what I said and I mean!]] You think that a president of the Israeli Cultural Community must not say such a thing – and you call it Austria-Norwayer. Painfully enough that you... – Yes, the torment with you is obvious! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What do you think he said about me?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's harmless, this criticism! Whoever is a politician, he has to be able to plug something – and he is a politician!]] Against this background of international observation, in view of these incidents: If you believe that Austria is doing well, then you have been very, very deceived, then you lack any consciousness! You, Dr Graf, complain to a green Member for the following sentence: [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now we have the right extremists also thanks to their accompanying protection exactly where they certainly do not belong. The relativists and liars of the Holocaust wander in the centre of power of the Republic. The name Graf does not appear in this sentence because of which you complain, but you feel obviously affected. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Did he mean the president or the woman Prammer? Or the new builder? I'm protecting myself from the president!]] They obviously feel affected. Actions Don't worry about misunderstandings! It's very, very clear: The FPÖ plays quite openly with anti-Semitism, the FPÖ has openly also introduced right-wing nationalism, right-wing extremism into this Parliament, with invitations et cetera. And you have to deal with this one too. It's not enough for you to complain all the time, we're going to be misunderstandingd here. They carry out open religious hatreds and thus also a conscious threat to social and religious peace in the country. And I would also like to ask you what the crucial criterion for being human is for you. Is it religion? Wings Again, that one distinguishes between Jews, Muslims and Christians? Do you want that to be marked externally by I don't know what? [[Abg. We don't want a head towel like you do!]] Is that the crucial criterion between people for you? Then you take up this very abyss, which eventually led to Auschwitz. If for you religion belonging is the crucial question for what makes man a human being, then take up this abyss again! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The religious communities, on the other hand, have rightly kept themselves clearly, very clearly preserved. I would also like to ask a question to the SPÖ. It took a very long time for us to have heard a very clear opinion on these ads, among these posters by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Very, very long. It's nothing new, we had these posters "Daham instead of Islam" in the last National Council election campaign. Just think of another religion: Daham instead of Judaism! What's that? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We never said that!]] That's exactly the same, just with another religious community! If you continue in this form, you can not only hear these accusations from us in all intensity, but also listen much more internationally. And you will never come out of the role of the controversial candidate, the controversial president, of the role you complain so much. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] This is a general political discussion, Mr Schüssel, which I consider very necessary and on which you may perhaps have to comment. For far too long, representatives of this Republic have said nothing to these ads and posters about these incidents and have not said anything and kept silent! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Extensive opposition to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hornek: Have you slept in recent years?]] [[Abg. Grossruck: Where have you been in recent years?]] [[Further call at the ÖVP: This is scandalous!]] I haven't heard an official protest note from the ÖVP in recent weeks and months – on the contrary: The only thing that has been noticed is that you are using the same rhetorical tricks as election rates in the European election campaign, where you link asylum abuse with a European directive on minimum standards for refugees, extremely politically - from my point of view - abuse exactly the way FPÖ does. That's it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: (pointing to the ÖVP fraction) But this is your coalition partner in Upper Austria!]] That's exactly the same tone – I'm really sorry – when you say: We were the only ones who voted against asylum abuse! – The material core of European minimum standards is completely lost here. This has not lost anything at all in a European election, Mr. Schüssel. Nothing at all! And finally, I feel it this way and many feel it so It is good that now clear words are found, from the President of the Federal Republic of Germany downwards, that there is also a clear attitude here. [[Abg. Großruck: Dr. Van der Bellen is ashamed of this speech!]] We need clarity and attitude and backbone on this issue. Austria is much more than insolence, play and open love with right-wing extremism!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19253	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for the Interior spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes; this is a fixed time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19274	Madam President. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! The unfortunate incidents in Ebensee cannot be tolerated in any way, and I strongly condemn them and have always strongly condemned them. [[General condolences.]] I am also taking this incident very seriously and I am therefore also going to have a more detailed examination of the extent to which extremism is increasing in Austria, what the reasons are and how we can resist these radicalisations. Let me from here, from the government bank, also make an official excuse regarding these unacceptable incidents to the victims, in particular those directly facing them. [[General condolences.]] It is good that the police in the Ebensee case have been so consistently flogged and in an excellent work the perpetrators could quickly arrest. They're all competent. [[Abg. Street: Some of the functionaries of the “red falcons” and the “children’s friends ”!]] And now to the accusation that you are referring to me in connection with Ebensee, namely the accusation that I had spoken of mutual provocation in connection with Ebensee. – I reject these! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ==References====External links== May has been misinterpreted – torn from the context – fatally. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Why didn't you put them right?]] I never wanted to make victims into provocateurs. And because that's not my attitude, I don't want to apologize to the victims either, should they have understood it that way. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I quote the APA message that led to this misunderstanding. It was a press conference in the security field in Upper Austria, where I was on the 11th, due to the current situation. May – was, of course, questioned about Ebensee, there at the most decisively criticised the incidents in Ebensee, and also said there, that we are going to arrest the perpetrators with all the consequence and hand them over to justice, on the one hand because of the prohibition law, on the other hand, because – and I said that in this press conference – the Ebensee concentration centre has many dead victims and is therefore also a final resting place and thus the death rest has been disturbed. The above-mentioned security director Lissl was then asked about these Ebensee questions. In view of the situation as the facts presented there, he gave information and also in view of the fact that we have no reinforced police presence at memorials – not in uniform; if, then in civilian; this in agreement with the victim associations. [[Abg. Strache: He has given very contradictory information, Mr. Lissl! Three times he disagreed!]] Afterwards, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked once again about the general situation in Upper Austria, especially in connection with the incidents of the 1. May, where there has been an abundance of injured police, because a left margin group has plowed extremist outcries. [[Call the FPÖ:Eh? Uh? Öha!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the APA that I am speaking with the following words: ‘There are mutual provocations in progress’, not on Ebensee, but there the paragraph begins as follows: “Fector analysed the basic situation:” – In Upper Austria, with regard to extremism in general and in view of the fact that we had various events in Upper Austria! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grossruck and Mr Mag. Lunacek.]] And my statement – I continue to quote: “It’s the mutual provocations in progress. This phenomenon is not good. They clearly say to all those who believe that provocative acts must be made, this is not guided by the rule of law. This also applies to violent provocations.” [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] Therefore, my veneration Ladies and gentlemen: I don't let the accusation sit on me that I'm making victims provocateurs! And I have no understanding of this either, if by Mrs Glavischnig – knowing that I also made this quite clear in an APA issue on 15 November. May, where I also expressed my regret for the victims – this misinterpretation is still pleasantly celebrated by the political opponent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vilimsky.]] I am clear that I condemn extremism in principle and that we do everything we can to control it in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Greens but not! They all do the opposite!]] With regard to the incidents in Ebensee, there is a broad consensus in society that there is a strong need to oppose harmonizing, glorification of the Nazi regime and re-acting. Corresponding perpetrators must know that their conduct is deeply rejected, that it is punishable under the Prohibition Act and that it is transferred to justice. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian security authorities are endeavouring to oppose all forms of extremism and to prevent relevant agitations already at the origin stage. To this end, the authorities shall take all the permissible repressive measures, but also preventive measures, in order to eliminate extremist agitations or not to allow them to come up at all. Only a determined approach will ensure that constitutionally guaranteed freedoms can also be exercised by the citizens of the country. Fighting extremist ideas and agitation, however, is not only a task for the security authorities, but a global social challenge that we have to face. The security authorities are aware of this task, and by means of the annual Constitutional Protection Report, Mrs Glawischnig – and not only now, but every year and every year, and always with a very clear statement in the Constitutional Protection Report – the security authorities cooperate in a variety of ways with institutions outside the security area, also in order to raise the awareness of the population in relation to extremist dangers. [[Call the FPÖ: So it is!]] This has already been reflected in the last few years by increased public sensitivity and thus also by a corresponding willingness to display. The Constitutional Protection Report takes a very clear view of the risk picture, the trends and the trend towards it. This included, in particular, the area of right-wing extremism in the field of executive education and training, thus ensuring that even few spectacular crimes are recognised and persecuted as politically motivated. The existing anti-dumping laws provide a sufficient legal basis for this. I have also made it possible for these phenomena to be strengthened in the operational areas of executives, in order to identify, on the one hand, the potential for danger and, on the other hand, to carry out the security. On the individual questions: Question 1: No, the investigations are under way. On question 2: The phrase “reverse provocation” did not refer to the events in Ebensee, but was part of an answer regarding the fundamental situation of extremism in Upper Austria in view of various incidents in the recent past in Upper Austria. The APA text in question clearly reflects this fundamental analysis also in the introductory wording of the paragraph in question. Question 3: Yes, I expressed my regret to the victims – to read in the APA of 15. May. Question 4: The security authorities have, and are, put to use all legal means, put in place measures both preventive and repressive in order to prevent judicial criminal acts from being resolved in a respectful manner. In view of the character of the commemorative celebrations, uniform presence is also denied in close coordination with the direct victim organisations. Question 5: Yes; pending at the public prosecutor's office in Vienna. On question 6: No, not yet. The facts will now be reviewed. Question 7: According to § 36 Security Police Act, a place ban was imposed by the Federal Police Directorate in Vienna. Therefore, only those persons mentioned in the present Regulation could be authorised. Question 8: The facts have not yet been indicated, but these investigations are now under way. On the question 9: War crimes are the ongoing subject of national and international cooperation both between justice and security authorities. Question 10: Generally speaking, the fight against all forms of extremism is the task of the executive. Depending on the need, there are regional differences, which is why no figures can be mentioned here either. In the BAT there is an extremism unit consisting of analysts, specialists and currently two investigation groups. This structure is also reflected in the LVTs and differs only because of the size due to the occurrences. As mentioned earlier, I have a concept for increasing operational and analytical resources to combat extremism in the BAT. We will negotiate this with the staff representative, and this will be set up soon. On the question 11: Yes, both the operational and the analytical areas are extended there. Question 12: I am looking for an understanding of the fact that, for criminal reasons, the number of extended risk research carried out in recent years cannot be announced in the far right area. For a better understanding, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say: The advanced risk research according to § 21 para. 3 SPG in the observation of groups, of which in future the one in § 21 para. There are three crimes that could be described in more detail. However, as soon as references to right-wing extremist incidents become known, according to § 16 of the SPG, a dangerous attack by the unlawful realization of a crime under the StGB or the Prohibition Act is to be assumed. And this means that we are no longer in the field of danger research, but in the defence of danger. Their question was only about risk research. However, I do not want to mention that security is at least as important here. On the question 13: The work of the safety authorities is under ongoing evaluation. In close coordination with the public prosecutors and taking into account the experience gained from previous proceedings, the evidence collection as well as evidence assurance and evidence-keeping are constantly being improved. Question 14: The Convention Law and the Regional Event Law are the basis for the prohibition of meetings. Question 15: The legal possibilities have been and will be fully exploited in the event of an occasion. Questions 16 and 17: The legal extremism report is part of the Constitutional Protection Report, with which the BAT communicates annually the risk situation of the general public. This report takes into account the requirements of data protection, and it therefore fails to take account of the specific designations. On the question 18: No, no, no, On question 19: The number of pages does not represent a quality criterion. The report is based on balanced reporting on all areas of state protection. Question 20: No statements can be made on a case-by-case basis for reasons of confidentiality and by reference to data protection considerations. On question 21: Residence termination measures are only possible in accordance with the applicable legislation. On the question 22: The comments of the head of the BAT reflect their expertise and therefore I am not commenting on them at the moment because I have no additional knowledge. Questions 23 and 24: Since 1997, the BMI has set up a reporting point against NS re-activities. Prevention measures will be reinforced by the competent Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism. These include: increased observation of open sources, particularly on the Internet; extending internal training; external lectures and information material on request, for example for teachers and parent associations; Cooperations with NGOs, such as the documentation archive of Austrian resistance, and also with other authorities; the establishment of prevention officials at district level, especially in those districts where we are in need; increased internal cooperation with regard to networking in the Ministry of the Interior as a whole; ongoing improvement of data analysis; consistent observation and criminal prosecution; operational analysis of scene development. On question 25: Prevention work on the subject of right-wing extremism is included in the overall budget of the BMI and is not identified separately. There are currently no BMI-funded auctioner programmes for right-wing extremists. On the question 26: Within the framework of the KIRAS Security Research Programme, a project was submitted by the BMI in cooperation with the documentation archive of the Austrian resistance on the topic of “social foundations and trends in development of right-wing extremism in Austria”. Unfortunately, however, the FFG rejected the financing. On the question 27: In 2008 Federal Minister Günther Platter initiated the museum redesign of the concentration camp memorial Mauthausen. In order to develop a concept, Section IV/7, responsible for the Interior Ministry for Centre Memorials, founded a working group that, in addition to staff from the department, also consists of external experts from various fields, such as time history, memorial pedagogy, museumology. The concept formulated by the group in one and a half years of work will be presented at an international meeting in June of this year. The concept will serve as a guide and basis for the development of individual detailed concepts in the redesign of the concentration camp memorial. The scope of the measures will require the gradual implementation of the overall project, which will take place in the coming years, which will start immediately after the presentation. Priority will be given to the implementation of the decentralised exhibition concept. As the first step in the implementation of the overall concept, a new overview exhibition on the history of the camp will be opened in spring 2012, in which the history, which has changed a little since the mid-1990s, will find its precipitation. Furthermore, the tours and the overall presentation of the place will be redesigned by this date. Specific projects have already been initiated, the results of which form the basis for the forthcoming redesign of the Mauthausen concentration camp memorial. In particular, it is worth mentioning the ground and architectural findings of the memorial area, which has been carried out since autumn 2008 in cooperation with the Institute of Original and Early History as well as the Institute for Contemporary History of the University of Vienna. Furthermore, the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, Family and Youth bought two plots of land, which originally contained essential storage areas such as the Aschenhalde and the so-called “File III”. These can thus be included in the concept of the memorial in the future. Finally, with the ongoing collection and research activities of the archive of the Mauthausen Memorial Centre, an important basis for the mediation of historical content is created. On the question 28: In 2008, more than 50,000 domestic students from group caretakers of the Memorial, including civilian officers, were cared for in the Mauthausen concentration camp memorial. 22 civil servants and about 30 free intermediaries are responsible for the groups this year. A sensitive area such as the historic area of Mauthausen, however, does not offer full space and space for visitors. An extension of group care, especially in the main season of March to mid-July, would go towards quantity versus quality and permanently deteriorate pedagogical work, which is why the interior resort cannot approach this proposal. The Ministry of the Interior is always trying to propose a visit to the memorial in autumn and winter, even in coordination with the Ministry of Education, teachers and teachers, in order to distribute the group tours over the year and thus ensure quality support. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19534	We are going into the debate. [[Abg. Grossruck: We don't need a debate anymore!]] I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19602	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is obviously a need for a urgent request from the Greens here in the National Council, so that for the first time a member of the government is officially indebted to the Republic for the victims of Ebensee. [[Abg. Amon: Not at all!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: I already have...!]] [[Abg. Hornek: That's incredible! Are you asleep?]] Mrs. Minister, it took ten days. Now there is an official excuse for the first time. You said you were “pitying. ” That's something else than to apologize for a decision. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] These are very different things that we see here and which are likely to be seen in the population, even if you think that is not the case. I am glad that there has finally been an official apologies of the official Austria for the victims of Ebensee. Mrs Minister, I really do not understand why this took so long. You have now explained here and tried to explain where the alleged misunderstanding came from, that you would have said that, in connection with the incidents of Ebensee, you had spoken of “reverse provocations”. [[Abg. Head: Designed by you!]] [[Abg. Kößl: Excuse me!]] You have now explained this and have read from the APA that you have generally spoken on the subject of extremism in Upper Austria and have said there are “recital provocations” on the rise. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Yes!]] [[Abg. Amon: This is also in the APA!]] Mrs. Minister! Ebensee is also located in Upper Austria and if you mention on this occasion, because this has just happened, that you are talking about extremism in Upper Austria and then say that there are “recital provocations”, then you probably also need to understand that there can be this alleged misunderstanding here. [[Abg. Amon: Please go!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: That's ridiculous!]] [[Abg. Kößl: You don't have to understand!]] [[Abg. Head: Aren't you ashamed of that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: Incredible!]] It's not just the greens who understood this. There is also the former Secretary-General of the Industrial Union, Mr Krejci – certainly not a Greener – who understood this the same way. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: He also read the APA!]] [[Abg. Head: You'll be again...!]] As Minister of the Interior, you must know exactly what you are saying and not disclose your opinion exactly, and you must not leave things open, which will then also lead to misunderstandings. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: You want to go to the European Parliament?]] [[Abg. Amon: You construct a misunderstanding!]] But once again: I am glad that this excuse has finally been made. [[Abg. Amon: You say here the untruth knowingly!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mrs Minister, you have now clarified a lot in answer to the questions, especially what is to be done in Mauthausen and in the other camps. But some points have not really been made clear to me, which you have mentioned here, namely why you argue so. [[Abg. Amon: That's your problem!]] You have now said it was unknown to you that it has been said in Andreas Mölzer’s magazine “Currently” that... [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: I don't read that!]] But someone from your ministry or from the Constitutional Service will read it. After all, this is a well-known magazine in which well-known right-wing extremists write. So if you don't know that, your people need to tell you what's written there. There it was written that Jewish “spectulants and cheaters of the big format of a Alan Greenspan, George Soros or Bernard Madoff” were responsible for the world economic crisis. Why has the Ministry of the Interior not yet become active with regard to these anti-Semitic statements? You said you didn't know so far. – So I can only notice a failure of your own device if something like that doesn't happen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Next. You mentioned that you do not want to make a name for the citizens in the reports of the Ministry of the Interior since 2001, because this is about data protection. Mrs. Minister! I mean, until 2001, there were these reports in which the citizens were also called decided. [[Abg. Kößl: Constitutional Protection Report!]] Who was the Minister of the Interior in 2001? Your predecessor, Mr Straster, is currently the leading candidate of the ÖVP for the European elections. He introduced that at the time. The argument of data protection here is probably anything but really viable, because: Then why was that before? Now, at once, there's no longer that. At that time, when I can remember, the Freedom Party was part of the government. That was the background and not the data protection, Mrs. Minister! Don't get involved in something that just isn't right! I call on you, in fact, to carry out this designation again in these reports. [[Abg. Amon: Shame for this presentation!]] Another is the presence of the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Ernest Duke in Austria, whom my colleague Karl Oellinger has revealed. This man has lived unlit for a long time in Zell am See, in the beautiful state of Salzburg. In Prague, he was even arrested and expelled from the country. Then he lives again in Austria and nobody gets upset. So if you say now, you trust the expertise of your BAT boss Gridling, who meant there's no reason to assume that you should do something against David Duke, I'm wondering: Didn't you act with colleagues in Prague? Duke was one who participated in the Holocaust-Leugner Conference in Iran. Mrs Minister, I ask you here to really wage a unconditional fight against right-wing extremism and not to say that I am not commenting on the case. That is a urgent question here in the National Council and I ask you to answer these things too! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One more thing, Mrs. Minister: You, the ÖVP as such, act in a form of double-dwelling. [[Abg. Amon: That's incredible! Take it back!]] – Listen to me! You can't say that right now. You don't know what I'm talking about yet. [[Abg. Kößl: It is a shame that you represent us in the EU Parliament!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – Mr Commissioner, let me speak. I'll explain this to you. Mrs Fekter has clearly and clearly stated here that she is doing everything she can to take action against right-wing extremism and to take a very clear position here. But do you know what both the Minister and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have done and are still doing? – It switches ads that are in style, in design and in language exactly the same as those of the liberals who are talking about asylum abuse. [[Call the FPÖ:What? - No!]] [[Abg. Head: Can't you use the word?]] Don't you know them? These are your ads – from the ÖVP. Clear, closed against asylum abuse! Everyone else is in favour of the Asylum Directive. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Do you know who the colleagues of the EIA have voted with in the European Parliament? With the far right Vlaam's importance and with the right-wing front national. These are the colleagues of the EIA in the European Parliament! [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The others in the European People's Party voted in favour of this asylum directive, as did the Greens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Only the ÖVP delegates find that they are better removed at the Front National and in the far right Flemish interest. That's the point! [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] That's right. [[Abg. Amon: Take this back! That's incredible!]] What's incredible? – These are the results of the vote of your EIA Members in the European Parliament. This is a boost for right-wing extreme behavior. You're voting with the same people you're supposed to condemn here. That's what I call double-beddedness, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Abg. Hornek: You're double-bedded!]] This is the continuation of the “brown thread”, which began with the election of the Third President Graf by ÖVP and SPÖ delegates last October and which unfortunately goes through to this day. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: What does “brown thread” mean? Take it back!]] Mrs. Minister! I call on you to finally put an end and also call on the ÖVP to make it clear that this “brown thread” is cut through. This increase in right-wing extremist agitation in Austria must have an end!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20107	I call Mr Pendl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20170	Madam President. Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! From the history of our country and from the special responsibility of Austria, all of us and our state institutions are committed to consistently fighting right-wing extremism. However, this is a special obligation for the Federal Ministry of the Interior and its respective head of the department. I am glad, Minister of the Interior, that in your opinion you have made a clarification on all of us very sensitive, but important, questions. I am also glad that you have apologised to the victims here in the House. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should also have this very important discussion in respect of the victims, leading them as it is from the experiences of history, as we have lessons to learn. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there are a number of points to be discussed here in our common interest. It is a question of whether a report, namely the extremism report, which was set up in 2002 by the then Federal Minister of State Strasser, should not be sent back to the House so that it could be discussed in committee, but also here in plenary, or not. It is also a question of whether it does not see some groups, namely the far right scene, as a signal if such a report is no longer presented to the House and thus to the public. In sober figures, ladies and gentlemen, the reports show the following: In 2006, 419 acts were reported. A year later, 2007, it was 752. That's a plus of 79.5 percent, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No coincidence!]] And in 2008 there was another increase, namely to 831, and this is a doubling compared to 2006. Behind a non-essential proportion of these figures are violations of the Prohibition Act. So, ladies and gentlemen, this discussion is a matter for us together and with the necessary respect, but also with the necessary consequences. [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for uncompromising and consistent action and for the pursuit of all right-wing actions. I will also encourage the Committee on the Interior – we will see what the discussion is about – that we are going to introduce such a report again, because I believe that it is also a signal to the respective scenes, but also to the public and finally to all of us. However, I also think, ladies and gentlemen, that the task – ladies and gentlemen of the executives have no easy service to do; I say this very often – is a very difficult one in this particular field. I think we should also use this discussion to thank the executive for the necessary sensitivity to this area. It can be seen that after a long phase in which the executive had fewer than 3 000 plantations, the Federal Government is now providing 1 000 plantations for the first time after years. I believe, Mrs Minister, that these are absolutely necessary so that we can have the necessary resources in several areas, but also in this area, so that we can also manage these fields efficiently. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the shocking person for me is personally – and I am really deeply shaken – that we see in the security report that 411 suspects are 132 young people – 132 young people! Ladies and gentlemen! There must be a broad approach that goes far beyond the actual security area, from global security to the parental home and educational institutions to all forms of society. We must work together to ensure that the necessary measures are put in place in the field of prevention, so that not a few people who are pre-viewing cultural events and holding concerts try to lure young people into the right scene. I invite all of you, ladies and gentlemen, in the interests of our homeland, also in the interests of what we owe the victims, our state and the Austrians, to go together to this so important work. I think that's necessary. We do not polemise in this area; it is far too serious!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20238	Mrs Plassnik is now speaking. 6 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20259	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! High house! We are dealing with a very serious issue today. Not only the fight against right-wing extremism and our vigilance in this regard are serious issues that have to be called for constantly, but also the allegations that are addressed quite specifically to the Minister of the Interior, that there has been a lack of attention, carelessness, or even an incompetence or a failure to recognize the dimension of the event. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] The discussions have shown us that this is incorrect and impermissible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Madam Minister of the Interior, I thank you for the clear words. Thank you for your clear policy. I would also like to thank you for contributions that are unfortunately too little attention. I brought the 2008 annual report of the Mauthausen Memorial – this annual report has been available since 2007 – an excellent and sensitive document. I recommend reading, as well as the documentation on a technical discussion with you, Mrs Innenminister, on the subject of commemoratives. Ladies and gentlemen, self-righteousness or self-righteousness have not lost anything in this regard. That doesn't bring us any further. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mrs Lunacek, on behalf of the Austrian People's Party, I urge you to take back your comment on the 'brown thread' simply and simply, quickly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Who chose Count?]] We don't need a cheap election campaign ammunition here. That's not going to do our job. Mrs Glavischnig, we also do not need any official Protestant notes from the Austrian People's Party. That's ridiculous! That's not how we're going. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who persecutes or discriminates against others is also an enemy of his own country. We want to live together in Austria, in Europe, in the world, on the basis of mutual recognition, mutual respect. That is what we want in this country, which the vast majority of young people also want. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Why did you choose Count?]] I don't think that competitions of debt allocations and nothing, as I have said, of cheap electoral ammunition. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: That's why we close our eyes, right?- Oh, my God!]] Let's take a look at the youth! Let's really take a look at their needs! There is today a very remarkable comment by Hans Rauscher: ‘Realism towards right-wing young people’. In this he takes note of a number of facts. For example, let’s look at a new survey conducted by the SORA Institute, which clearly shows that only 3 percent of Austrian young people aged 16 to 18 would call themselves to be clearly right! More than half of them are stunned by their own representation than in the middle. This, ladies and gentlemen, is an opportunity, and this opportunity is with realism to work with seriousness. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What is an appropriate approach, ladies and gentlemen, to irresponsible derailments, as we have seen them in Lake Eben? I would like to read to you something I heard yesterday in the “Morgenjournal”. It is a statement by Daniel Simon, who himself witnessed the events in Ebensee. He is the President of the French Mauthausen Committee. Simon said – I quote the translation – “When I heard that two were in prison, I said to my fellow travelers: I don't think prison can help. Prison hardens this kind of attitude that makes such actions possible. On the other hand, I do not know many who remain insensitive for a long time with stories of survivors of the camps or a real pedagogy on this subject. This is a long-term work that needs to be started early ().’ The reference of the Mauthausen Committee to extrajudicial action instead of prison, for example in the case of a conviction, is such a way that we should go or at least consider it, for it is important to open the minds of young people, but not only their heads, but also their eyes and their hearts, in the sense of self-determined and self-confident learning, for insight, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be enforced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] On my first official trip to Israel, I wrote a total of four years after a long discussion in the book of Yad Vashem the following text, which I would like to give us today as an order, namely all of us, because it concerns us all, in everyday life, in our respective environment: “What is the man that you remember him, the child of man, that you accept him?” Thank you, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20377	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. 7 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20398	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are looking forward to a urgent request made by the Greens and to which the media coverage in the “Presse” was founded in 1848, in the year from which the tradition of the Third Camp in Austria also derives, among other things, contains the following entry – I quote rationally –: Dear Mrs. Glavischnig, don't worry! The answer to your questions will be received regularly at elections. - Quote. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The issue is too serious, however, that it should and could only be dealt with in elections. Regarding Mrs Lunacek's statement, which in 2002 itself was suspected of being anti-Semitic, together with Mrs. Jerusalem from Vienna, as there were letters to the cultus community in which the cultus community was accused of incitement itself to anti-Semitism, it is said: Once you open up your relatively short party story, then you'll see that you're with you – not with us! – on an eye is blind! [[Calls to the Greens.]] In any case, we have learned from history and from the past and can recognize reality with both eyes – but not you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Regarding what Mrs Lunacek said in the direction of the EIA with the “brown thread”: Well, it's nothing new that you're excited about. Skill Do you remember the Thursday demonstrations where the young Greens produced the slogan “Schüssel and Haider on the Wall!”? [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Don't talk such a nonsense!]] So there you can already say: With the tolerant feeling from your camp it is not far away! In itself, we would not have to speak in this debate as a FPÖ, because the fight against right-wing extremism and Nazism is certainly clear, because this is accompanied by violence. Extremism has to do with violence. [[Prolonged calls to the Greens.]] However, they of the Greens do the following: They always entertain the discussion about neonacism and right-wing extremism with the FPÖ and with the citizens! You seem to have to cut this issue, because otherwise you will have no more topics. You don't have any more topics! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Look at what 20 Members of your group are doing. The only one of us, our colleague, Mr Hofer, is making a better environmental and disability policy alone than you are all. Or with regard to Temelín's policy: Werner Neubauer alone is better than your entire 20-member group! That's why you're holding this theatre in the Hohe Haus – and not for the first time, because the events in Ebensee have just occurred. There is hardly a session, including the constituent session, without such discussions, so that one could really believe that in Austria the rule of the NSDAP is still true. Shame for such agitations here in the High House! [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] As an assistant to such things, you, of course, as allies, have the documentation archive of the Austrian resistance – a communist tarr action, a media Stalin organ, a private stable, which is and works pseudoscientificly. [[Calls to the Greens.]] We certainly don't make you happy that we're giving our election posters to a censorship site from you before. The following must also be said to you: If you go through this urgent request, one notices with what certainty you say things in it. For example – I quote –: ‘2.9.2005: In Graz a festival takes place over the stage. Some bands with a right-wing radical background are supposed to have performed.” – Quotes. This is not even proved, it is just put into the room. Other example – I quote –: ‘10.5.2009: Neonazis is disrupting a commemorative (...)” Whether the neo-Nazis is, I don't know, it'll probably have a court to judge. In any case, socialization certainly did not take place in the third camp in Austria. I don't think the red falcons belong to that. Now a brief remedy in the rule of law. There may have been some changes since I was able to make a positive assessment with Professor Van der Bellen. You write in your urgent inquiry: ‘As the number of ads (...) doubles, the number of judgments (...) decreases.’ Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, please note: The judgment is the decisive in the rule of law – and not the ad! You might too easily overwhelm you with any senseless ads. But I think that's probably due to your diction anyway, because you have a certain tactic with it. They from the Greens also attack the citizens in Austria on a flat-rate basis. It will have already been talking to you: I'm a burger, and that's good. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: You hear it!]] In your way, as you approach this topic, it will soon come so far that drivers who drive a Porsche perform re-activities that someone who receives the Creutzfeld-Jakob disease is also re-activating because it is named after the discovery of the virus, or if you screw a Bosch ignition candle somewhere, it may be a neonazist activity. That is the ridiculousness with which you really deal with these serious issues, just to pursue the cheapest party policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Except jokes, you don't think so!]] Now a word on Mr Mölzer; he was also quoted. We have heard this with the quotations on TV before; we are always accused of a quote, but it is not mentioned correctly, there is always something missing, and we are waiting for it. Our Andreas Mölzer and also the second place on the list are both corps students. And that's the list of all those corps students who were resistance fighters against Hitler. [[Keeping a document in height]] So Andreas Mölzer is in the best society!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20542	Next, Mr Petzner. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20563	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of the Interior! If we are discussing this urgent question of the Greens today, we also have the question of why. We ask ourselves: Why or how can something like that happen in Ebensee? Why are there such posters as it makes the FPÖ? Why do people react to such posters? The reason for this always has to do with the bruising of the language. I am thinking, for example, of the slogan “Abendland in Christian Hand”, which you very much criticize. But if we condemn this rabies of language, we must also condemn the fact that Members of this House live here at the speaker's desk, such as the colleague Faul, who made himself here yesterday – he is a school director – and has shown such a raw, brutal language that it causes people to rise their gray bulbs outside. [[A lively accompaniment with BZÖ]] So before you criticize the slogan of the FPÖ, Mr Klubobmann Cap, take care of the order in your own ranks! Now to the application text of the Greens: There's a game from you again. They have a biterl the “Swoboda syndrome”, as I call it – Swoboda syndrome because in 2000, Mr. Swoboda, as far as I can remember, was one of the first fighters to start sanctions against Austria by the EU. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That is, Swoboda has opposed Austria at the Brussels level. Now the Greens also do this by formulating the sentence in today's application text: “The political leaders speak of an unfortunate individual case which is not, of course, representative of Austria.” In reverse, that means yes: You, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, believe that this is representative of Austria. That's exactly what you say with your application text! And that's your problem: that you are always against Austria and throw all Austrians into a pot. I ask you to distinguish a little too and not to put all Austrians on the right edge. If Mrs Glavischnig says here that the FPÖ games with anti-Semitism – and you condemn it – then I honestly answer you: You do it in the reverse! You also play with anti-Semitism, you also play with right-wing extremism – only from the other side! And the SPÖ does the same. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] I will explain this to you on the basis of a concrete example, where you will quickly find that this whole excitement has something to do with the EU election campaign. Yesterday, I asked a senior representative of the SPÖ: Why these violent attacks against the FPÖ? Reply from these Members, a senior management officer of the SPÖ: Because it helps us in the EU election and mobilizes our voters! [[Abg. Grosz: Who said that?]] Against me: But does that not help the FPÖ? Answer: Yes, but we are very happy to buy it, because our surveys say it helps us even more! [[Abg. Grosz: Aha!]] That's the truth! Your election campaign with your top candidate, Swoboda, is not in motion, and so you are trying to be afraid to run polarization towards FPÖ, so that you can make your own EU election campaign come true. This is the game with right-wing extremism, with anti-Semitism, which the FPÖ of one side and you operate from the other side, and that is something to condemn. People have to know this once outside! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Nothing else is this urgent request from the Greens. They of the Greens try to stir emotions, fears and aggressions from the other side. I'll tell you: Whether it is from one side or from the other, both are dangerous, both are condemnable – and both do not do the BZÖ! The BZÖ is the only party that is clearly opposed to the game with anti-Semitism – from one side or from the other – and that also lives. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from BZÖ are dealing – and I am now going to the second part of my speech – with the real concerns of the Austrians. The Austrians are much more interested in the problem that we are no longer sure that people in their own four walls are no longer safe. They are concerned that the number of breakdowns has increased by 40 percent in recent months. That is, three burglaries are taking place in Austria per hour. In the city of Vienna, Ms. Fekter, there are 30 burglaries a day. The people in Austria are afraid they don't trust in the street anymore, they don't feel safe anymore. These are the real concerns of the Austrians, and we give the answers to that. You play with anti-Semitism, you, too, you too – we do not, but we say as a concrete answer: [[towards FPÖ]] [[to the SPÖ, to the Greens and to the ÖVP]] [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] Let us take the border controls to the south and to the east again, ensuring more security for the Austrians! We have repeatedly called on the Minister of the Interior to do so. She also knows that she would have the legal instruments to do so because the Schengen Treaty very well allows the introduction of border controls, but you do not. You do not mind, although you know and tell your police officers and experts that the opening of borders is primarily responsible for our having this rapid rise in crime. I can quote a recent example: “Austria” report two days ago: “Rebellion in the police.” The staff representative of the Vienna police then plainly explains that he is annoyed by you, and raises the question: “What are the causes of the massive increase in crime in Vienna?” the answer: “This is certainly linked to the opening of Schengen borders in Eastern Austria.” Another police officer says that serious errors have been made in connection with the introduction of Schengen on the part of the leadership, which has led to an increase in crime. This police officer goes on to say: “There should have been more personnel in the agglomerations, in the criminal service and also significantly more priority actions. But that didn’t happen.” This is your responsibility, Minister Fekter! They are responsible for increasing the number of housing losses by 40 percent and more in Vienna and in all other federal states. You are called upon to ensure order and to reintroduce border controls. I don't know why. You are so opposed to this proposal. But I know that from the ÖVP: After half a year or a year, copy the claim and then sell it as your own. I'm very excited about it. It will certainly be like this again. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another problem I would like to address when we talk about security that concerns Austrians and that concerns them is the Asylum Directive, which has led to a massive weakening of the asylum laws in Austria. It is also true that the SPÖ is trying to cover up with its dispute with the FPÖ and with the lashing of anti-Semitism from the other side, that a majority of its MEPs in the EU Parliament voted in favour of the Asylum Directive and thus in favour of the evasion of the Asylum Act in Austria. And the FPÖ is involved in this game with anti-Semitism from the other side to hide the fact that her colleague Andreas Mölzer, Austrian lazy MP in the EU Parliament, has weakened the vote. The EIA is completely silent, because it does not like to hear that while its Members voted against the Asylum Directive, the EPP, the European People's Party, was majority in favour. Nor do you say that Mr Kara's deputy group leader is the EPP and that this line has apparently contributed to Brussels, with responsibility for having this asylum directive now. [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In summary: These are the real problems of the Austrians! End this game with anti-Semitism from the one side, ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, and you, my Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, from the other side! Finally, because you asked me who I was talking to before, I can tell you openly: That was the House of Deputies Laura Rudas, who quickly left the hall when I told you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20720	The next speaker is Mr Walser. 7 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20742	Madam President. High house! No one leads a “brown thread”, Mrs. Plassnik, to the ÖVP. We're just pointing this out! It would be absurd to put any fascist attitude in your mind. However, we point out that you have systematically called for the rise of right-wing extremism since 2000. [[Abg. Head: What?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] Through the coalition with the Freedom Party, they have lowered the border towards right-wing extremism. We are now in this House in a situation where we have been sitting within organized extreme right here, ladies and gentlemen. That is the big problem and that is why we have made this urgent request today. – Mr Petzner, it is a shame that the BZÖ is not in favour of this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Let me give you some examples of this claim. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] I would like to remind you of this and read a few quotes that have fallen toward FPÖ in recent times. A classic: ‘On the edge of Nazism’. – That was Ernst Strasser, that was a man of yours who assessed FPÖ in this way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Strache was a "hasspreacher", but Strache was a "disgusting", the FPÖ published hetzeric electoral paroles. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Electoral paroles?- Oh, my God!]] – It was Federal Chancellor Faymann who said that. Well, please, I'll just repeat it! This is the extremism of the right, which we have here and which you have made to live through the coalition in 2000. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury.]] This has to be clearly stated. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is at all events – but that is not just you, but also the SPÖ colleagues – to point out that in this country we simply have a lack of clear demarcation against law, that we do not have what is common in other European countries, a “cordon sanitary” against law. [[Abg. Grosz: Two Green Order Calls!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] Look at what your sister parties do in Germany, in France, in Belgium! That's not what's in question. The CSU would have excluded any mayor who would have been elected by the Republicans. . You brought them to the government in 2000, these gentlemen and a few ladies of the Blue Group. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: And if she hadn't done it, then... absolute majority...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] In France, Le Pen is avoided by all – by the Conservatives, by the Socialists – since there is no cooperation, regarding the Flemish interests in Belgium there are clear rules. Unfortunately, in Austria there are no these clear rules and you are both largely responsible for them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan:... the rules!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: You get the bill presented at the elections!]] Let’s look at today’s “curies”: In it, the Third President of the National Council Ariel Muzicant is a “classical Austrian leader”. – We also know this expression! If you think about the right Internet forums, which are always quoted by the FPÖ, there is already a talk of the “Stänkerjuden” there, then it goes a little further. [[Abg. May. Stefan: You said that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] – How far do we want to drive the game? I should also like to remind you – and this is not a piece of fame for my home country Vorarlberg – that the FPÖ is still in the government in Vorarlberg. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: In Upper Austria soon again!]] Fortunately, it is now the only federal country, but, I may point out, without need. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: In Upper Austria, FPÖ is soon in the government and you are not!]] The ÖVP has the absolute majority. Who are you gonna get into a coalition? – The Freedom Party, which has been known for years and decades for this lack of legal demarcation. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: You are a teacher?- Oh, my God!]] In Mauthausen was mid February, Eva Glavischnig has already quoted it as complaining of the disgrace of the concentration camp memorial. On the outside walls stood: “What our fathers of the Jew are for us is the Moslem Bread; be on the hat! 3rd. World War I – 8. Crusade.’ These are exactly the vocabulary with which the FPÖ is now going to house. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Because the word “cruce ” occurs?]] Heinz-Christian Strache is photographed with the cross in his hand, wants to refer exactly to these historical parallels, would like to point out exactly what happened there, perhaps would like to remind Leopold V of Akkon with his bloody garment. [[Abg. May. Stefan: The word “cross ”? Is that your logic: because the word “cross” occurs?- Oh, my God!]] These are the feelings you are consciously awakening and with which you are at least partially successful. It's going to be too much for your people now! In Vorarlberg, FPÖ-Klubobmann, Mr Amann, has officially distanced himself from Strache today. Read it, talk to him about what he has against it! – It should be rejected that this is a disaster. Thankfully, Madam President Prammer has sent us this joint appeal of the churches. All social groups in this country are concerned, they are concerned about the FPÖ. And then follows the appeal, which is really specifically addressed to the two government parties. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Read exactly! Read exactly!]] Take note of this appeal, take it seriously, implement what is contained in it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] It is here that the representatives of the churches and religious communities who come together on this issue want to work together. They find themselves together to warn of the brown drift that exists in this country. This brown drive has been given parliamentary support and we must take note of that. [[Abg. May. Stefan: That must not be true! The fact that people are still allowed to choose should be abolished!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: To abolish the right to vote! That you're a teacher is a scandal!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] They are now damaging the reputation of Austria internationally, if you do not know more clearly than you have so far distanced yourself from the drive of the Freedom Party in that country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Does it need more than comparisons with Goebbels? – This is not from the Greens, which comes from such personalities as Ariel Muzicant and Anas Shakfeh. This one speaks to them fascist trains. That is the case all the time, and I can bring you quotations from all social groups. – You don’t care, but we take care of it because we are concerned about the reputation of this country. [[Abg. May. Stefan:... has only recently returned to a demonstration...!]] So again my appeal: See that the Salon rights – here a picture of Andreas Mölzer with the cream of European right-wing extremism – have nothing to say in Austria! Look at them coming where they belong, that is to say, into the Chamber of Policy and not here in prominent place. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Where? Where?]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Yes, in prison!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21112	Mr. Dr. Walser, for the accusation of the organized extremism of the right, which you have expressed, I give you a call for order. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the same time, I note that in the future – whether I am speaking here of the accusation of right-wing extremism or of left-wing extremism or also of abuse – I will give each time a call for order. I now give the floor to Mr Klubobmann's head of business.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21148	Madam President. I thank you for this prompt response. It is an immeasurable thing that Mr Walser has just given of himself here towards ÖVP, namely that we have systematically, as he said, promoted and supported right-wing extremism in this House. [[Abg. New builder: This is a scandal!]] This is an immeasurable thing, there is a call for an order, and I expect Mr Walser to apologize immediately to the ÖVP for this immense statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21186	Mrs Lueger's next speech. [[Abg. Gahr:... Teacher?- Oh, my God!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Talk time? – I put the clock at 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21230	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of “Fight Against Right-Extremism” is not a subject suitable for polemics or polarization. It's far too serious for that, and that should be it for all of us. [[Abg. Hornek: Is there a call for order now?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have been elected to find answers to how we can effectively combat the increasing number of right-wing areas – that is also the obligation towards the past. Especially as a youth speaker, I am of course very concerned that a large number of suspects are young people, and, as has been shown, young people who have not previously moved in a far right scene. Where can we use it effectively? What can we do to prevent such incidents as in the Ebensee concentration camp? – I am convinced that we must start our children’s development as early as possible. In addition, it is necessary to promote the education of active co-operation, respect and tolerance in the parents' home, in the neighborhood, as well as in educational institutions. It is necessary to impart the necessary knowledge to show and process the whole horrors of fascism. [[Abg. Weinzinger: And also Communism!]] – Children and young people who have this knowledge are less exposed to this seduction than those who have no knowledge of it. Similarly, the social framework must be designed in such a way that for children and young people both the possibility of development, the possibility of good training and the possibility of a career course in professional life is given, as frustration, disappointment and instigation can lead to seemingly simple answers being the solution to many questions. These are xenophobia, anti-Semitism, National Socialism, and they also lead to the right-wing extreme scene. I would therefore ask you, Mrs Minister, to do everything possible to prevent the holding – and they have also been addressed here today – of right-wing radical concerts, because there young people are being killed for the right-wing radical scene. In Germany these events are usually prohibited; if a ban cannot be pronounced, they are closely observed by the police and by the constitutional protection. It has to be done just as vehemently against these events in Austria, because it has also become known that the German organizers now want to avoid Austria. I am convinced that international police cooperation needs to be further improved in order to be consistent with these phenomena. Finally, however, I would like to address the other areas of my responsibility, namely the area of integration. In particular, this issue is an important aspect of integration. Successful integration and the common recognition of European values mean that xenophobia cannot arise and can be strongly opposed to it. And I would like to use the words of the mayor of Vienna again: It is important to create a common house rules and to respect and live them together. That is why, Mrs Minister, I would like to expressly ask you once again, especially when drawing up the National Action Plan, at the first stage of which we are now in the process, to draw up the knowledge of all the experts and to involve all the regions affected by it, the countries and communities and all those concerned, so that this National Action Plan will not only remain a paper but will also be filled with life. Then it can certainly make an additional contribution to the fact that right-wing extremism can be actively combated in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21285	Mr Kößl is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21309	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is a general basic consensus in Austrian democracy as far as our past is concerned, and the Austrian People's Party condemns any form of extremism, whether it's in the right area or in the left, or whether it's extremist groups like the militant animal welfare that we only had last year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: What?- Oh, my God!]] And there is a boundless injunction to the woman's Minister of the Interior and to the police that there is a lack of right-wing extremism. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You bring it together and use the debate to protect animals...!]] Mr Pendl made it quite clear, also by means of the figures available, that: It has been very sensitive to itself in the area... – Mr Kogler! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Do you put extreme animal protection and right-wing extremism in a rail?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Not a lazy insert again!]] Mr Kogler, I really ask you, let me speak, listen to me, and then you can report! Right-wing extremism has always been taken very seriously by the executive! As much as every single case can be condemned, right-wing extremism in Austria is in international comparison Thanks to God at a low level and serious crimes do not happen to God. The Constitutional Protection Report – and I really want to address the Greens here – shows exactly what direction it is in right-wing extremism: The actions are generally limited to propaganda offences, lubrication actions and property damage. As has been said, this is fully documented in the Constitutional Protection Report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] The number of cases of right-wing extremism is rising, that is right, but the reasons for this need to be precisely filtered out, which is due to the increased awareness of the police and the willingness to display the private population. Every ad is followed quite pentibly, so I say it again – and I repeat: It's a bottomless submission to the police and to the Minister of the Interior! Unlike right-wing extremism, left-wing extremism does not have any specific legal provisions and therefore there is no doubt: Much of what is done in the field of property damage actually goes in the direction of left extremism. – And one thing I would like to say to the Greens: Whoever opposes the disguise ban has a lot to do in front of his own door, you really have to say that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Vilimsky:... and the... words of the ÖVP!]] If one supports that there are black blocks that can be done anonymously against the police using bricks, it is on and on, a bottomless acidity if I can say so salopp. As has been said, it is certainly true that much has been done in the field of extremism, especially by the Ministry of the Interior, by the current Minister of the Interior and by the ministers of the Interior of the past: The documentation centre in Mauthausen has been expanded, there is a lot of commemorative work being done in the field of civil service – that has already been mentioned. I really ask not to lose sight of reality! And I would like to say the following: Especially the greens have a lot to come in front of their own door. Whoever has a Peter Pilz in their own ranks, who is always verbally acting extremely, who has a balluch on the National Council election list, who, I really must say, has to knock on the chest and say: mea culpa! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Again!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21449	Mr Kößl, I give you a call for order for the expression ‘soilless leave’. And I think again in general and really as a reminder, if you want to, the following: This debate is important, and it has to be conducted in an objective and in dignity in accordance with the House. Please consider your choice of words! – This is an appeal to all the Members here in the house. Next, Mr Neubauer. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21482	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! As part of her remarks, Clubobfrau Glawischnig meant how to deal with the speaker of the cultus community, it was a sign of how to be seen in the public. I can tell you the following, Mrs Colleague: If this gentleman compares a member of the Freedom Club with Goebbels, if this Lord is a righteous citizen on his homepage – which, by the way, is illegal, because it does not meet the requirements of the Legal Notice – people are deified as “Neonazis” and “Kellernazis” if this man uses the right of interplelation of national councillors to call them “Kellernazis”, then one must not be surprised if in this case a reaction of a Member does not fail. If we have a society that makes a strong separation from Church and State, then it is also necessary to comply and then those who are not involved in politics – or who apply for an office – have the right, as I believe, to interfere in politics. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, more and more incidents that have the content of prohibiting student organizations or gymnasiums abound in public spaces to exercise the legally defined and guaranteed fundamental right to freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. One could see this in Vienna, which was found in Innsbruck, but also in Linz, where Greens called for it to do so. I have therefore – as I mean, rightly – turned to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and also to the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany for information on how this is in line with the legal framework. Thankfully, I have received a very quick reply which I do not wish to abstain from. It's written: Freedom of assembly is a fundamental right enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the Austrian Constitution and thus fully respect it as one of the highest democratic goods. According to the case law of the Constitutional Court, it may also be necessary to accept the effects of meetings in the interest of freedom of assembly by the public or parts of them that are considered to be sustainable. And finally, From these points of view, the refusal by the assembly authorities of citizenship rights to assembly freedom and freedom of expression does not appear to be understandable. - Quote. If you then argue, by a registered event, there is a provocation, and if you do a perpetrator-sacrifice conversion here, then that is simply unreasonable. And finally take note of this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also have to tell you that if you really are serious about your commitment – and I take your commitment to the national council delegates today – and I am taking it from you – then I would also be pleased if you, as a clubwoman, also did a little bit of educational work in your own ranks and not only looked in one direction. I have here a report from the Federal Ministry of the Interior, in which it is not about free young people, but in the letter bombscausa one has found young people who are basking the letter bombs, and it is remarkable that one has found a CD, a computer diskette on which was a guide to bombing. And imagine, that was the “Young Left Voice Green-Alternative Youth Linz”. And it has ordered an instruction to build a bomb on an internet delivery. That's remarkable, as I mean. I never heard that even a greener would ever have distanced himself from it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Neither do we!]] I never heard anyone would have distanced themselves from the unrest in Innsbruck, where the antifascist scene with the Black Block acted. Mr Hetfleisch has now called for a ban on the event in September. I have never heard anyone distanced themselves from the Greens when Mr. Markus Koppenberger called for a smooth shoot of the rights that attend this event. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What is that?]] Even the newspapers have written. [[The speaker holds a newspaper article in his hand]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: What are you doing? What are you doing?]] What is allowed in this country is not the case of left-wing or right-wing activists, but only the case of the legal institutions. Whoever does not acknowledge this is a true enemy of democracy. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Give this to the Minister of the Interior, she's supposed to do something with it!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's why everyone can come! Get the hell out of here!]] If that's what you want, it's an unheard-of incident when such a thing is done. From this point of view, I therefore call on the Public Prosecutor's Office to make it clear that the representatives of the Greens, Communists and Mr Hetfleisch no longer want to maintain the right of expression and freedom of assembly for student or gymnasium organisations, as a result of the multi-proposal for constitutionally guaranteed civil rights such as freedom of expression and freedom of association, is no longer the criminally relevant crime. These calls remind me of the appropriate approach of the National Socialists in the Third Reich. There, too, people, political groups and organizations have been tried to evade and put them outside of the right. Not for nothing, the black block has probably chosen the color of the fascist black shirts. They operate a complete traffic of the perpetrator-offer role. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's incredible!]] In this case, people are invited to feel provoked. This, in turn, becomes left-wing violence, which is to be impoverished and legalized. It comes to violence. And I can tell you one thing: We will no longer see you taking Austria hostage with this strategy, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Here you go!]] I remember a situation in Germany, where the CDU took place on 1 January. May wanted to set up a stand, which was not possible precisely for these reasons, because it was equally argued. The safety of the CDU stand was no longer guaranteed! We do not want such conditions here in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And one thing I would like to tell you, too, you need to be careful that not everyone who does not wear your mind is automatically stamped to the neonazi. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You already said a lot!]] Because with that, you are evading the crimes of the National Socialists of the “Third Reich”. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Nobody does that!]] I can really tell you that. One more thing: Ebergassing has not been forgotten. Don't be hateful, for hate is a very bad companion to political decisions!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21660	Mr Neubauer, my appeal has obviously passed by you, because the comparison and submission of the hatred and the Nazi comparison towards the Greens are exactly what I wanted to avoid, namely that we continue to discuss this way. I'll give you a call for order. [[Abg. Grosz: But, Madam President, yesterday at Faul, you were not so sensitive!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stadler. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21695	Mr Neubauer, one cannot answer a bad, grossly bad parliamentary question, which is called “necessary”, with an even worse speech, saying that this would “disappear” Nazi crimes. - You can't evade it at all. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Unharmed, he meant, he wanted to say!]] I assume in your favor that you wanted to say impoverished. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Of course he wanted to say that! You know that!]] Yes. He wanted to say – that's always so... Yes, well, I accept it in his favor. [[Abg. May. Stefan: You already promised!]] But then, in the future, please send speakers to the speaker's desk, who know what they are saying – and do not deliver grotto bad speeches to a cave bad request. But according to our colleague Glawischnig, we now know who is to blame: the Austrian People's Party and at your head Wolfgang Schüssel! Yes, he is the guilty one in connection with the Ebenser offenders – they belong to court! Is there any contradiction here? - Please get up who's against it. - No one. Good. Then we can cut that off. Wolfgang Schüssel is to blame. But what did he do? – He has committed a crime – we don’t call it “crime” in the first place; that may still happen. He dared to be a non-socialist Federal Chancellor, to lead a non-socialist government, with a non-socialist majority here in this House. – That will be yours forever, Dr. Schüssel, you won't be able to do that anymore. As a defender, I'll try to save you. But please be glad if you don't get under any suspicion of crime. So this is the grotesque accusation you're being made here. I am probably one of the few who have dealt with the request of the Greens. In the text you can read that the 30 hit student connections are the reason that there are crazy people in Ebensee, there are offenders! The 30-catching student connections! – I also belong to a student connection, and imagine that it is older than Ebensee – 1863, since there was no camp in Ebensee at all; By the way, Mauthausen is not grateful to God. So these staggering student connections are to blame for the fact that it has come so far. – You know, that's simple and just grunting... [[Abg. Dr. Walser: That doesn't mean man!]] – You claim that in your request, of course! I don't think you've read your own request. I notice, Mr Walser, that you do not read your own texts or just what suits you so to speak. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] I read to you who really was one of the corporates, then you can see who you all mean: Fritz-Dietlof Graf von der Schulenburg, Academic Corps Saxonia Göttingen, executed by the Nazi regime; Egon Erwin Kisch, Prague Corps Student, Burschenschaft Saxonia Prague, fled from the Nazi regime; Alfred Herrhausen, Academic Corps Hansea, has not been executed by the Nazis, but by right-wing extreme terrorists, RAF terrorists; Karl Marx, philosopher – your spiritual forefather!, I'll tell you where he worked, academic Corps Palatia-Bonn; Hanns-Martin Schleyer, Academic Corps Suevia Heidelberg, executed, murdered by RAF terrorists; Robert Bernardis, academic burger, executed in a concentration camp; Fighter Ulrich von Hassell, Corps Suevia Tübingen, executed by Nazis; Otto Skorzeny, involved in the resistance in 1944, executed. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Otto Skorzeny...!]] - No, he wasn't executed, but he was a burger. [[Calls for Greens and FPÖ.]] Otto Skorzeny was active in resistance. Mr President, I am glad that you are upset about this. [[Further calls to the Greens.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I'll call you other fellows. Dr Michael Häupl: Rugia Krems; Alexander Van der Bellen knocked on Brixia at the Burschenschaft. [[Calls: Here look here]] Look here, yeah. You understand, ladies and gentlemen, when I say: That's your unreflected handling... – Yes, he was resistance fighter, unlike your relatives, Mr. Walser, was Skorzeny resistance fighter! [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Skorzeny was..!]] Do your private past management wherever you want, but not from this Rostra! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Do it with your brother-in-law at home! I don't have to hide Nazis, Mr. Walser. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] Not me! I also have no failure to represent teachers in poorly educated students, to students who obviously do not know what they are doing. You, Mr. Walser, are teachers. Not me! – You and yours are responsible for the fact that there are crazy people in concentration camps who are holding some crazy states. Mr Walser, you are knocking on your own career – but do not bother us and this House with your private past treatment! – Mr Walser comes from an old liberal family and is now playing! By the way: Mrs Glavischnig, too, so that this is also blatant. [[New calls from the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] If you want to manage your private past, Mr. Walser: There are therapists who continue to help you do this for not so expensive money. There's even one or the other on a health certificate. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now on a question that concerns me next: Can you tell me, Mr Walser, Mrs Glawischnig, how many of these ebenser crazy people were with corporations? - I hear! – You don’t know! No one at all. How many of these were in a CV or MKV connection? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] - You did this on the subject. I would therefore ask you now on the basis of your own urgent request: How many of these ebenser crazy people were in a CV or MKV connection? How many were in a pennal connection? - No, don't you know? How many of these were in a socialist youth organization, such as the children’s friends or the “red falcons ”? - How many? Do you know? [[towards SPÖ]] [[Call the SPÖ:One!]] At least one, yes. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, that's the difference: They make a parliamentary request, so to speak, to bring the corporates into disrepute – that is what they call there – so to speak, to pour us from top to bottom, and then it turns out that the only political belonging that one of these perpetrators had was one with the socios! What are we doing, ladies and gentlemen? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ as well as with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now I'm with Franz Fuchs again, because you think Franz Fuchs should have been a burger, but it turned out he was a socio-soci. In the case of the Ebergassinger attacks, which are located in the field, it turned out not only to have been part of the far left edge of the “Green Education Workshop” and the Kirchweger House scene, which is financed by the KPÖ, but it is much better: At the time, these gentlemen also participated in every demonstration against corporation events, as later proved to be the case. That is, the people you want to represent here, so to speak, as the great antifascist advocates, are those who are responsible for the biggest terrorist crimes in the Second Republic. Letter bomb terrorism is one of the terrorist crimes of the Second Republic; at present, so to speak. I'll tell you: Take care of cleanliness in your own Augiasstall before you stand out here and play the great moral preachers of this Republic! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Shakfeh...!]] Dr. Walser, I am infinitely grateful for the mention of this name, namely Professor Anas Shakfeh, for: The entire Islamic-cultivated community laments that this man for years and day has prevented any democracy in the Islamic community! Everyone! You can read this. I'll bring you a few people who were with me as a complainant; they're all very credible. This Mr. Anas Shakfeh, your leniency, has been financed for years and day by Wahhabitian-Saudi Muslims. You have chosen a “super society” there! That's your leniency?- Oh, my God! – I would be whistling on such confectionery! You know, I've got better morals. To me, those corporates who are sincere – upright! – for democracy and freedom, which they have paid with their own lives, all the better witnesses than those you mentioned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21918	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 7 minutes desired speaking time; Total period of residence: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21939	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Walser will not apologize because he has found a banality here. And the banality is: The ÖVP has taken the FPÖ into the government and thus made it viable. He doesn't have to apologize for that, that's to be read in every history book. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: This is a slight loss of harm!]] Secondly, Mr Stadler, that you have read our request, I do not think you have understood it. Obviously you have not even looked at the title, because the request does not mean: Incidents of the Ebensee concentration camp, but “failures in the fight against right-wing extremism” – and there is an essential component of the civil society. I'll prove that to you today. I am going to read to you the old legal extremism reports of the police, what the people say about your "fine" society. [[Call at the FPÖ: But there we are excited!]] Madam President, I appreciate She is very careful, but your announcement that there is a call for order for every term “right-wing extrem” and “left-wing” cannot be understood! I think it is already subject to this House's definition of which content can be qualified as an extreme right or left.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21982	Mr deputies, you have misunderstanded this. The injunction is served with a call for order, not the term.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22006	All right, then I'll prove all the examples. This is not a problem for the FPÖ either, and I am not afraid of a call for order either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: First call for order!]] Minister for the Interior, the increase in the number of right-wing crimes in Austria is blatant. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] And when I mentioned this to you in the Committee on the Interior, you said: Yes, yes, but the left is just as important to me! – More could not be heard, nothing useful, no coherent strategy, and no problem-consciousness at all. Today, after the incidents in the Ebensee concentration camp, you have already sounded different. Obviously, the Ministry of the Interior has finally woken up. So far, it has been obvious that, as far as right-wing crimes are concerned, one has slept and has completely failed this development, although every week in any newspaper some cruel incident can be read. Every citizen can read this – the Minister of the Interior obviously slept. The situation is to be taken seriously, police and justice must respond – no wrong tolerance, nor the hope that the ghost will pass away. Every crime still so small belongs to persecution! The backmen and organizers of these networks must feel the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen! Strict criminal prosecution, no evasion of the prohibition law – that did not break at all. Secondly, the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism must finally become fully active. That's how we got to Stadler's burgers. You have to look closer at this scene. The guest list of these German national citizens is the who-is-who of international right-wing extremism. Holocaust-Leugners, re-activators put the door hooks in their hands there. There is the ideological and intellectual hub of the far-right networks! That's what the police have lit again and again. In the nineties, the Ministry of the Interior still mentions two Vienna and a Innsbrucker Burschenschaft as a cadresmith of national and right-wing extremity. [[Call the FPÖ:What?]] The 1999 report states: The agitation of these student connections also shows the attempt to create a certain acceptance of national socialist thought on the grounds of this. A year later, the competent authorities indicated that the spread of ideology, which is subordinated by several citizens, continues to be given particular attention within the meaning of the Security Police Act. – This is the “fine” scene of the Lord Stadler, that is the “fine” scene of the FPÖ. That's how it looks! And then the FPÖ's government came in 2000, and they spread out the coat. The first was an "Olympe" and the current head of the office of Mr. Asperl, who called for ministers to act with a civil background in particular in justice, where at last something must be done against the illegal provisions such as the Prohibition Law! – He is now sitting a few rooms further from you, Madam President. At the time of the FPÖ-near newspaper, one has also – already quoted by colleague Glavischnig – run against the surveillance of the Burschen Sturm. Interventions of the FPÖ. What happened? – Since then, there has been no legal extremism report. Since then, the citizens are no longer mentioned in the Constitutional Protection Report. The protective coat is spread out. Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, you inherited this abuse. But if you don't turn it off, you're fully responsible for not looking at this scene. Right-wing thoughts must not become socially viable. Look at these forgings and make sure that the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism fulfils its tasks! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22072	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittmann. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22093	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I do not think that it is feasible to start a urgent request to put a conscious misunderstanding to a minister, a minister who represents our reputation on the outside in this question, who has made it quite clear that she has not in any way made these two incidents of the 1st century. May and Ebensee wanted to connect. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] If you put this conscious misunderstanding at the centre of a question, I wonder if this is useful for this discussion. [[Abg. Head: That was intention!]] I believe that it is the wrong way to make a conscious misunderstanding of those representatives of Austria, who are actually the outside voice in this matter. This discussion, as I mean, is not a good service if you start it this way. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I think it is a speech that is overburdened in the emotion and I would really like to point out that if Mrs Lunacek says in her speech that there is a “brown thread” between SPÖ and ÖVP. I'm really going to reject that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] I assure you that there is no brown thread here, and I am not going to let that be – by anyone, even if it is meant in your mind. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I also believe that it will not continue in this discussion if we, as parties, consider each other as "organized rights" or "organized left" here in Parliament. We should, as I think, leave the discussion where it is: in the extremism area. There are no extremists sitting here in Parliament! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong way to blame each other for organized extremism from the left and the right here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I also think that Mr Stadler's statement is absolutely essential. Of course, one of the perpetrators of Ebensee was with the children’s friends, but we don’t have any recording criteria. That's bad enough. But we will try to install a program there, to inform you that one is fighting these events together. But here things point to each other and point out who has something to think of, that is the wrong way in this discussion. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am also convinced – and this is what I am saying now as a constitutional speaker – that in Austria we have a functioning police unit that guarantees freedom of assembly in both directions, which is also really concerned that it is possible in our country to make these assemblies together. The fact that there is always a problem, not a question, but also that my appeal goes to the reasonable forces, as it mildens, not to put radical views in the foreground, but to try to influence the active participants. I already see a difficulty: I believe that it is quite appropriate to reintroduce the report on right-wing extremism in such an accumulation of right-wing ads, namely a doubling from 2006 to 2008, because I consider this to be an appropriate measure to bring to the public and thus to have a basis for a reasonable discussion. In my opinion, this would be a path that must be taken. If one sees that the number of ads in the field of right-wing extremism has doubled in two years, then I consider the demand for the abolition of the prohibition law to be exceeded. As a constitutional lawyer, I would never allow that, because I believe that this law still has a meaning, especially when the number of ads doubles. We should also be very careful with these demands. On the comments by Mr Petzner: No one has accused anyone of anti-Semitism from our side. The only one who said something about this was MP Stadler in the direction of FPÖ – and nobody else, if I have really searched through it. Therefore, one should also be careful about these accusations and not make policy with them. You're there, as I mean, on the wrong steamer, and I think this accusation has come into the wrong throat. On the comments by Mr Rosenkranz: To present the documentation archive as a “communist cell” and as a “medial Stalin organ” is absolutely essential in this discussion. What do you want? You're reaching it? You may think otherwise, that is quite legitimate. [[Abg. Weinzinger: On behalf of the Republic!]] But a really important institution, such an important instrument in this society, I think, in this discussion, that it is completely wrong and overlaid – that in your direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A somewhat more relaxed access and a slightly less firm access to this issue would probably be more appropriate and more objective access. We could meet in this sense to really want to fight right-wing extremism in depth, if we did not present mutual accusations that we did not intervene in one extreme branch or another. That's wrong. All extreme branches and all extreme groups belong to fight in this Republic, and I believe that we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22198	Next speaker: Mrs Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22220	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to thank Mr Wittmann for his constructive words he has spoken, and I agree with that when he says that this incident is shocking enough to take this into account now in the House, to accuse each other of each other and to shake the extremism gap here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to address my speech to that aspect, which means: Is there a right truck in Austria? And I warn you to consider or discuss whether it is the case that all young people, a particularly interesting audience, suddenly show right-wing behaviour from today to tomorrow. If, now, the attempt to make all young people in Austria a perpetrator should be launched, I can only point this out. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the contrary: There were many Austrian children's and youth organizations, all member organizations of the Austrian Federal Youth Office, who took part in the liberation celebration in Mauthausen to commemorate the victims of National Socialism and to remember the horrors of the Nazi regime. In parallel, unfathomable scenes have taken place in Ebensee. And, of course, these youth organizations, the many young people who participated in Mauthausen, have also distanced themselves from these incidents, were shaken and are working together to formulate how important it is to keep the memory awake and to resist neo-Nazist and anti-discrimination tendencies. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this must not be treated as a ‘youth mark’, nor is it expected and seen by young people. And I think that it is therefore not appropriate for representatives of the House to choose such wording here. [[Abg. Grosz: How Mr Faul!]] This current and already quoted SORA study states that more than half of all young people would call themselves political centers. There is no trace of right-wing extremism at all: neither on the left nor on the right. Christoph Kotanko has this article in a “Kurier” article on 15. In May, he wrote: “Youth is not right.” I quote: “Young voters are a demanding clientele and a difficult clientele.” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is our task to deal with this issue and to give the right answers. This study, which I would also like to say, focuses on the fact that, in addition to employment, income and pension, Europe is also an important issue. 60 percent of the first voters have a positive attitude towards Europe. That is why it is completely inappropriate to consider the EU election as a breeding ground for cheap populism. Ladies and gentlemen! We don't need foreigners' heat, we don't need the plume populism. We want to live in a country where decisions are made with the head and not with the cue. For one thing I would also like to have said: The rule of law does not come from the right, but the rule of law comes from the right. I think we all have to keep this in mind. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our task will be to consider how we deal with this responsibility that we have. In my opinion, there are a few essential points that need to be addressed. On the one hand, there must be cooperation with the family advisory bodies, where the point of legal radicalism needs to be stepped up. Family consultants must also be trained to deal with such situations. But there must also be a training series in open youth work, where youth centres and youth organisations are integrated. Last but not least: The visit of Mauthausen and memorial sites is only valuable if students are prepared for it at school. This requires political education in school. For this purpose, the ÖVP is committed.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22290	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22314	Ladies and gentlemen! However, I do not want to go into a philosophical discussion with Mr Fuhrmann on what is the difference between law and law or between the rule of law and the rule of law, but I would like to return to the basis of this question that we are dealing with today. It is not enough, I believe, to analyse what Mr Petzner has already done. That's a part of the whole thing. It is, of course, electoral rhetoric and an attempt to win more votes than the other does by polarizing by hustling and by trying to drive the other into a corner where a democrat should not be. The magic word that is behind it and that, as I mean, we have to lead ourselves once to mind is the basic antifascist consensus. Unfortunately, the German Chancellor used this word yesterday – unfortunately not because “antifascism” is an evil word, but because the basic antifascist consensus is quite different from the democratic or anti-totalitarian consensus. The term “antifascism”, a term from the late nineties, coined by the Comintern, i.e. the Communist International, which established Stalinist Russia in the 1920s, served to unite under the coat of the Communist or Bolshevik Party all those who were willing to take a step towards the establishment of totalitarian rule, so they were willing to reject the bourgeois fascist structures. That would have to be said to Mr Pendl. It is quite interesting, for example, at the 1929 Comintern Congress Stalin said that social democracy is the moderate wing of fascism. – So much to the fascism concept and to the difference between democracy and fascism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] After the war, this antifascism has also become “state religion ” in many states. The best known state is certainly the GDR, 1949. Otto Grote's famous sager in the development of the GDR: “The GDR is the antifascism poured into state law.” The GDR has also strengthened this concept. We can all remember the “antifascist protective wall” that should “protect” the antifascists from the fascists in the Federal Republic of Germany until 1989. We can also recall the many criminal provisions that have supported antifascism, the provisions against “antisocialist agitation”: up to 15 years in prison. In my view, these principles and basic principles live if I look at today's requests or, above all, this one from you, here. It can also be seen by a little researching the principle programme of the Greens, the so-called Green Policy Guidelines, which have been applied until recently. You've been reworking them a little. They came from the nineties. There are interesting passages that hit this bridge. For example, under “Five Steps to More Democracy”: ‘Even blockades, occupations, spontaneous strikes uva. in particular cases, the means of a green-alternative policy may be, with the essence of resistance and civil disobedience, that they cannot be restricted from the outset to the legal framework of a unilaterally protecting their interests laid down by the powerful.’ So even in your programme of the nineties, you still have the rejection of the rule of law or the relativization of the rule of law, provided that it serves the interests – they already call it green-alternative, but you can say it historically so – of the antifascist struggle. Today's request is also marked by this spirit. This is not about protecting democracy and rejecting radicalism, anti-democratics, anti-humanists, but it is about prohibiting others from doing what you claim for yourself. Even you are extremely sad when it comes to tracking a “poor” Molotov cocktail werfer or a “poor” explosive from an animal factory. In this case, all the mildness of the law is to be applied. But when it comes to the opposite – that is the supposed right-wing extreme, right-wing extremist, Nazi, whatever that is, burgers and so on – then it must be done with all the hardness of the law. We have also heard this in the speeches made by you, Mr Walser, but also by Mr Steinhauser today. Most important: the hardness of the law, the merciless approach, the application of the laws, the intensification of police surveillance. If you see your request in this spirit, he speaks for himself. For example, the thing that upsets you most is that you have stopped sniffing the corporations. So something that you find particularly bad is that there has been an interpollation to make an agreement with the government colleague in the Ministry of the Interior in order to stop this contemplation pruning in corporated circles and this diffamation of the student corporations. That was particularly bad in your eyes. It is also particularly bad in your eyes that the number of ads doubles, but the number of convictions does not resist it. This is a sign of “increasing right-wing extremism, ” because you think that if you show a lot, much must also be condemned. That is, through an ad flood that not only makes you, people close to you, but also the DÖW, which has already come to speak today, one creates the impression of a “right-wing extremity slave” – and then annoyses itself or officially complains about the fact that justice is too lax, does not respect all these ads, and people who have sometimes said in a corner that Hitler would have been a class boy, not immediately to ten years old. This is, of course, a double-beddedness that everyone needs to know about this request, and everyone who is discussing antifascism in the sense of green applications and in the sense of Walser, Lunacek and Co should also know. I'm about to come to a present-day incident, very up-to-date. Today, for example, I would have in Graz... [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Why did they not agree?]] –You can talk again, you can still report. I think you still have speaking time. – In Graz today, an event with Andreas Mölzer should have been held at the Joanneum of the University, which had to be cancelled by the University, because a demonstration by Green & Alternative Students, GRAS, according to the University Administration's announcement, has given rise to fear that there could be serious outrages and similar violent scratches as in May 2007. In May 2007 – for information – there was an event with Heinz-Christian Strache. The same applicants of the demonstrations, namely Green-Alternative Students, have made sure that this happened in a violent crab and that there has been considerable damage to university ownership. This is just a small example of how successfully the antifascist struggle is waged. That is to say, preventing rallys, preventing statements of opinion, preventing political activity where it does not fit, but all freedom for self-acting, even for own violent or violent activity in demonstrations of territory. This is, as I mean, a real problem and the real scandal – and not the constant accusation that the Austrians were in the core all anti-Semits, Fascists and Nazis and are permanently re-educated and it would be a scandal that any student said something about it. We have therefore decided to submit a motion for a resolution to follow up. I'll bring him in here; he's also in writing. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22401	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22497	Mr Grossruck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22518	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! What the Greens have tasted today was a sad spectacle for Parliament, what you have delivered, a defamatory tragedy – for them themselves. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: What do you mean?]] You have asked a question to the Federal Minister, and I congratulate Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Fekter on her answers. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] She has exposed your questions as conscious false messages. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: She's finally awake!]] Mrs Glawischnig, you said to Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter that she had made a comparison in the case of Ebensee, where you, Mrs Glawischnig, knew exactly that this was different, because you cannot tell me that you are not reading the APA reports from the front to the back! That was a conscious and absolute shake of our Mrs. Federal Minister, whom I reject. If you are “franc enough”, you – and also Mr Walser and Mrs Lunacek – come here to the speaker’s desk and apologise to Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter for this derailment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Glavischnig, you have your right to act as a teacher here with today's day. [[Abg. Brosz: That's what the right one is talking!]] You're no more moral guardian than you're trying to sit down. You're no longer a defender of law and morals. They're no longer a censor to others. You, Mrs Glawischnig, came out today as an inquisitorine with your team and all the others have moved in here in some corner. Only You want to stand here as saubermen, but you have been exposed by various debates: by our foreign minister, Ursula Plassnik, from former State Secretary Wittmann, from all others. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Boss.]] That was really a dirty, a disgraceful spectacle! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] One more thing, ladies and gentlemen – I use it for myself and for the whole People's Party: We reject all extremisms. We are not blind to any eye: neither on the left nor on the right. The former Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel was the first to put actions in the reparation, who put the refund fund – together with the liberals, together with the BZÖ! – introduced the Historical Commission, which has made the actual reparation to the injured victims of National Socialism and beyond. [[Congratulation and bravoring of the ÖVP as well as advocacy of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] That was our Federal Chancellor in a black and blue government. Don't stop the March, that with the reception of the Freedom Party into a coalition, the ÖVP would have begun! Mr. Walser, you're a historian, but you're probably leaving the short-term memory a little bit! [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Steger was a...!]] The first was Dr. Kreisky, who was elected by Peter in a minority government, and then there was the team Sinowatz/Steger! That was the first, not the ÖVP! [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Yes!]] Stay with the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, an unwarranted witness – he was sitting here in the National Council – is our former representative Dr. Ludwig Steiner. [[Abg. Brosz: Would he have chosen the count as well?]] That's our model. We accept his attitude, who himself was in opposition, whose father was killed by the Nazis, who was leading inside here and who also included the guideline of the ÖVP, what Nazism, what extremism is about. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Why did you choose Martin Graf?]] Ludwig Steiner is a contemporary witness; read his books! Then you will notice the attitude of the ÖVP and find no “brown lines” to the ÖVP. This is an assumption I reject! We just can't let that happen. That's great what you've done! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many here in the National Council – by various parties – have victims to complain about, relatives who have fallen into war or have been murdered in the concentration camps. Ladies and gentlemen, let us deal with this issue as it should be: If we discuss matters, we see that today's youth has a different perspective, that extremisms are also being fought among young people, as Mr Wittmann said! This is the right access, but not from a Europe-wide mood, to stage a spectacle out of a election mood and then to see what comes out as the greens have done. [[Abg. Dr. Walser:... is a spectacle for you!]] You've been exposed today. You've delivered a messy, inferior spectacle. Ladies and gentlemen, I stop, I end my speech with a four-liner: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] With Argusaugen watching over what makes right-wing extremity is right. But if it's left, you're blind on the left eye.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22728	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22749	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! The worrying events in Ebensee, Auschwitz and the anti-Islam demo have dominated the media country in recent weeks. We from the BZÖ are clearly opposed to any radicalization. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The success in the elections especially with the young voters has shown that this is the right way. My speech today should once again show that the area of children and youth is a cross-sectional matter. [[Abg. Vilimsky: That's not a speech, that's a reading!]] The Federal Minister for the Interior is also increasingly involved in matter. The causes for young people becoming criminal are diverse. It is important to explore the causes, to listen to and to involve young people. Factors are youth unemployment, lack of prospects, a lack of social restraint from parents and at home, aggression and violence against themselves. This has recently been heard in a conversation with children that young people and children themselves are maiming and then exercising violence against others. The right way would be to set prospects, create jobs for young people, help them to introduce, for example, a new “blum bonus”. The introduction of a termination protection would be the right thing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Especially for young and apprentices who use Blum-Bonus II, a cancellation protection is introduced to give them safety. The education in schools is also intensified to enable students to deal constructively with it. A subject of political education should be introduced to bring them closer to the future of policy. Experience in the “democracy workshop” or especially in the youth parliament has shown that young people are very much interested in politics. I assume not all young people are criminal. We should support them together for a good future without any radicalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22801	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Schüssel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22822	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know what happened to you on the subject. The “Kurier ” of tomorrow, page 3, is worth reading! That's where the mirror is held, as we are seen. [[The speaker holds the page of the above - mentioned newspaper, on which the headline “Krocodile, Dackel & Dobermen” can be read.]] [[Call ÖVP and BZÖ:Thank you, Mr Faul!]] This should in fact encourage us to think that we are developing such a kind of silent Comment, as we should not imagine each other – with abusive words, with deceiving, with despicable, with enemy imagery – because that does not do anything. I believe that politics can and must play an enormously important role. But this also means that we take each other seriously, that we listen to each other. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I liked what Peter Wittmann said; I can underline every word. This means that we also take seriously that we have been elected as democrats to the National Council and represent our opinions here, and that we should try – this is the appeal to the Greens – not to mix everything together. One can, of course, be against the Third President of the National Council, that is clear. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: He's been elected!]] Whether it is particularly tasteful to appear with certain bodies and to pose “shams of shame, ” yes, that is a matter of taste. In any case, I disagree. To bring this in conjunction with the events in Ebensee or with neonazist tendencies and then bring it into an amalgam, where of course something remains on the land – wanted or unwanted, probably unconscious – I personally do not find it correct. There we should develop a common Comment, which is not done. Discussion, discussion, even hard discussion are of course, but we should respect each other and take each other seriously. This includes perhaps reflecting a little on why this topic always leads to such emotions. There's one thing I noticed: There is very little taboo in today's society, but it is obvious that dealing with the National Socialism, with the Holocaust, is the last taboo that remains. To be honest, young people tend to break such taboos. You have to see that. You have to deal with it very carefully. For example, I would advise the Minister of the Interior, who gave a great speech here, that you really bring together the best youth psychologists and think about how to deal with them. But it must also be kept in mind that possible derailments can happen there and there. For example, I refer to today's comment by Hans Rauscher – highly interesting! – in the ‘standard’. It's about the song "The Wave", which was performed in the Volkstheater. This is a piece where a very dedicated pedagogue tries to confront the young people with the fact that they themselves are seductible with almost fascist tendencies. Of course, sometimes even too good, it threatens to slip! The reaction of the audience at the Wiener Volkstheater is very interesting. Some have applauded a Hitler speech. But then came a scene in which a resistor of "Quasi-Nazis", played by students, was brutally thrown on stage. An hurricane, a buh hurricane has risen. And when, at the end, actor Markovics appeared and spoke out for tolerance and reconciliation, there was great applause. That's how you have to do it! There's nothing to call for after being locked in or to limit everyone. No, we need to find intelligent, new forms that are better than our sometimes ritualized “remembrance culture. ” That is what I say very self-critically. We must face this, and we must resist this with a positive picture. In my opinion - and I say so very openly - the European Union is in fact the answer to precisely these problems of the Nazi era and the horror that has arisen with them. This should be stressed much more strongly in this ongoing European election campaign. This is not about a few tenths of more economic growth or about net payers and net recipients, but about the fact that this Europe, this European union, is the peace project that really makes it possible to “never again” which we are so proud of. - That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22915	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Abg. Brosz:... Van der Bellen!]] [[Call ÖVP and SPÖ:Closed!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: This is not a business order!]] - That wasn't on the screen yet. A word by Mr Van der Bellen is available. The rest of your group's speaking time is 4 minutes, Professor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22972	Mr President. Wittmann and Großruck have discussed what I mean. There can be no talk of conscious misunderstandings! If indeed half of the Republic – that is, as the editors of the chiefs arrive at the commentators – would have to be absorbed in this misunderstanding as regards the statement by Mrs Fekter. Yesterday, the editorial in the “profile” appeared exactly on this topic! Sorry! We have taken note of Mrs Fekter's statement, but then the other groups do not have to keep up with what the half of the Republic believed. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: That is already clear!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Schüssel, it is true that I can only stress your appeal to a good culture of memory. – Catch Now [[Abg. Head: Is this now apologizing the accusations that half the Republic has believed?]] You're back on! I've been with Mr Schüssel for a long time. The culture of memory is all right. I can only underline the European Union as a project of the “Never Again”. However, these discussions always end with the fact that those who are, so to speak, of the same opinion support each other, but never reach out to those who are of the other opinion. You have to say that clearly, too. If someone in Austria complains of a “culture of harmonization”, as Ariel Muzicant did, is immediately referred to by the Third President of this House as a “classical Austrian nurse”, then this gives a certain picture of what these people think belongs to his group. Austria culture is, I believe, too much said! For example, I feel like I'm part of another person. But that the culture of the liberals is a culture of insolence, I believe very well. I'll give you a few words: Is it not true that many of you – including many citizens, but certainly not exclusively – do not celebrate May 1945 annually as a day of liberation from Austria, but hold a celebration on the background of the defeat of Germany; is that not so? [[Abg. Weinzinger: As the Day of the End of War! In memory of the victims!]] Secondly, Is it not true that Mr. Stadler – then still a member of the Free Party – could not see a difference between the Nazi occupation of Austria and the “Allied occupation” of Austria on the occasion of a Sunday party three years ago? – This is something that the liberals have never distanced themselves from. Is it not so that Jörg Haider at the time – there he was still the head of the Freedom Party – has said according to his words: He's just wondering that someone named Ariel has so much dirt on him? – Isn’t that a classical anti-Semitic statement? Is it just a good staircase of history – according to the BZÖ now? I just want to know. [[Abg. Weinzinger:... the story!]] It is totally incomprehensible abroad how to elect someone like Mr Graf as the Third President of the National Council. [[Abg. May. Stefan: In which country?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Incomprehensible to you!]] You don't have to take note of it; I'm just saying it. I wanted to hold on: I'm guessing people like Ariel Musicant. He doesn't take a leaf in front of his mouth. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] He learned certain lessons from the 1930s. At that time it said: The Communists disappear in the camps, I'm not a Communist! The Jews disappear into the camps, I am not a Jew! The Roma disappear, I am not one of the Roma, et cetera! Musicians have learned this lesson and are excited when it comes to minorities in this country, especially when it is not about Jewish minorities. He's learned. He can translate. If your posters are hit against foreigners, he thinks: What would be if these posters were not “foreigners ” but“ Jews ”? This is an association that you reject. But you have to acknowledge that this is possible. [[Abg. Weinzinger: But only at... heads!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] And this strengthens the impression of the culture of insolence – not throughout Austria, but in this group.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23121	Mr Vilimsky came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23143	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I could now link up where Professor Van der Bellen has ended, and I could blame the Greens for a lot of refreshments, for shattering certain political groups. I could pick out individual greens and give their political curriculum here for the best and try to derive things from them. I do not want to do this, because someone who spoke before Professor Van der Bellen, namely, Altbundeskanzler Schüssel, said something very correct, namely that the picture that this House gives to the public is becoming an ever more disastrous one. This also concerns the terms which fall here. And here I also take my own nose and appeal to each of us to return to a kind of political debate that we can be observed and qualified in the public in appropriate dignity and with due respect. The reason I reported once again, but is actually another one. In the debate before, something very important has been mentioned, which is actually very central for reporting the last few days in the media, but also for today's urgent request of the Greens, but which has actually remained in space. Member Petzner said that in a conversation with the Federal Director of Social Democrats, Ms Laura Rudas, he could learn that the SPÖ has just brought the issue of eccentricism to the fore, because the SPÖ obviously has problems and a deep survey in the run-up to the EU election. But that means nothing but that this Federal Government under Chancellor Faymann has put in place a topic, a very, very sensitive issue, in order to hate us – and I say that again now, consciously – in order to hate us and start a debate on a very sensitive issue. That's why we're sitting in the whole mess where we shouldn't actually sit. [[Abg. Petzner: It hasn't been demented! It's said!]] I would like Mrs SP-Federal Managing Director Rudas to state clearly here that what she said yesterday was wrong with what was said by Mr Petzner, or that is done in accordance with the proof of truth. It is important for all of us – especially on such a sensitive question – why debates are being started, why it is obviously covered on certain issues, then we all have to deal with them for hours at a time, and that it is not what really interests the Republic and the people. We should, indeed, be in favour of resolving the urgent problems of people in the poverty field, the labour market, the social sector, education and so on. Mrs Rudas, you are speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23185	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23207	Mr President. Dear members of the government on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now comes the compulsory dementi!]] I am happy to tell you why the reporting of the last days has been so massive, because there is a civil society, because there is a majority, a vast majority in this country, who do not allow anti-Semitic allusions, who do not allow it and who has enough of your wrong historical image. Thank God is the majority in Austria against radicalizations and shouts there too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, to make this clear: Mr Petzner, Mr Petzner, and Your ex-college Petzner has been looking for conversations for several weeks that I do not agree to have to talk with him. He came to me in the buffet, tipped my shoulder – colleague Kuntzl was there – and said: One minute! He then asked quite questionable why we put this discussion, that we are helping the FPÖ and that this is a “wisdom”. He and the BZÖ are somehow afraid to prevent too little in the election campaign – which could also be a bit of a fact that they have little content. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That was not the answer to the question!]] [[Abg. You're with the ovaries!]] Anyway: I promise here high and holy never to discuss any concepts with Mr Petzner. We don't want to be a mini-group. As a social democrat, however, I do not have to justify a hundred percent of the reason why we have a sincere fight against fascism. It has a long tradition, and we will continue to do so. This is a moral and not a strategic decision. [[Abg. Petzner: Tell me what you said!]] Mr Petzner, I would say that you are simply doing this yourself with the FPÖ – and leave us alone with it. [[Abg. It's yours!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again: There must be no harmonizing! We do not care if young people – out of whatever motivation and from whatever motives – do not have a genuine sense of history and happen as in Ebensee. This is a minority of young people, quite clearly, but no case must happen without at least being vigilant from this moment on. And here, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, Mr Strache, we are also examples. We're role models! We are politicians in the House, and we are role models. [[Abg. Ing. ==References====External links== June!]] It doesn't matter if there's any calls or if there's someone here saying something that's not so good. This is not crucial, but crucial : [[Abg. May. Stefan: Is that true now, what Petzner said?]] What moral models are we for the Austrians? [[Abg. May. Stefan: Is that true now, what Petzner said?]] And here you have to take your nose – and no one else here in the house! - Thank you many times. [[Abg. Strache: Is that right now?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23356	There is definitely no more word message here. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hübner, colleagues, on the guarantee of the exercise of fundamental and freedom rights despite the extremity of the left. Whoever joins this request, I ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. [[17:46:17]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23395	I will resume the negotiations on points 1 to 3 of the agenda. Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European She continues her speech before the interruption. – Mrs Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23419	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rudas has now taken a very fair role in her last speech. She has talked a lot, but she has not said anything and has not even been able to answer the short question, which has been asked very correctly by Mr Vilimsky. She's not here now either. [[Abg. May. Rudas: That's not true!]] - Excuse me, I don't see you. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I've been listening to her. - So much for it. [[Abg. Petzner: She didn't answer!]] The previous debate has ended. I now turn to the budget again, and here is the women's budget, which is on the agenda and for negotiation today. As mentioned above, Mrs Minister is satisfied with the increase in her budget, but not with the overall budget. The fact that you cannot be satisfied with the overall budget is actually quite logical if you have only 0.13 promills of the total budget available for your own department. [[Unrest in the hall.]] I am not really satisfied, too, and we are also satisfied with the requests received in the course of the budget consultation. I should like to quote from a number of answers to questions, namely about the care facilities. Women's care facilities should not be evaluated as they are already fully documented. In another...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23477	Please listen to Mrs. Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23499	Thank you, Mr President, for your support. I will continue: In a further reply, however, the Minister writes that the interpretation costs and the need for languages are not in detail. It should therefore be evaluated, especially in view of the fact that 56 percent of women who visit women's homes are migrants with respect to non-Austrian women. So this is another proof of how important it would be to carry out an interpretation evaluation. On the National Action Plan, there are still no specific budget figures, only the reference to appropriate resources from other ministries. What are the amounts? – There are no figures in Hiezu. The talks announced with the ministers of other departments, such as the Minister of Economic Affairs or the Minister of Social Affairs, of which she is also trying to get money for her place of business, will continue to be postponed to the long-term bank. Until the fair and equal pay for women, it will take even longer, and the pay shears will not be quickly closed either. For this purpose, working groups and subgroups are used. As far as Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's talks with Minister Fekter are concerned, I believe that it will also look like a dungy, because the criminal police advisory service budget on the development of violence is being reduced. I would like to know how the talks are going to take place here, if they were to be conducted. These are all points that cannot satisfy us and which are not satisfactory. But perhaps the woman minister is already with his head somewhere else and not at the women's resort. That against the background that there are rumors that if there is a discharge from Minister Stöger, she will follow him as Minister of Health. In SPÖ-Creisen this will be discussed all around. ==References== In May, an article was given in Claus Pándi’s “Kronen Zeitung”, his sign husband of Chancellor Faymann. He goes pretty hard in court with Minister Stöger when he writes – I may briefly quote from it: “... the shy Minister of Health Alois Stöger. He fears less the poor pigs and their bad flu than humans." Pándi also writes: “And so the spats of the roofs are whistling that Stäger will give up his ministry more than for a long time.” It is then further explained that Mr Faymann's wife, Minister Heinisch-Hosek, provides for this office and that this is already being prepared in secret. Perhaps in the course of the debate today someone else can comment on it from the Social Democracy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very interesting!]] – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23538	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23560	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schenk, I do not understand why you said in your introduction that you now wanted to return to the budget. After all, you have not said too much, except that you have spread some strange rumors. Don't worry about it! If that's budget for you, then it should be good. At present, Austria is not the only country in which there is a situation in which the economy and the labour market need to be renovated, and where it is clear that the budget should then be renovated in a second stage over several years. On the one hand, I think it's important to do that in a way that takes place in a natural redistribution, redistribution from top to bottom. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where? When?]] On the other hand, I believe that it is necessary not to ignore the international and European levels, for example, a transaction tax. Austria is one of the countries which have already adopted national decisions in addition to Belgium and France. A transaction tax would help to get a little out of control of these totally marginal financial markets and to hold back all their effects, which we have now felt very clearly, a little bit. Secondly, it would also be a good opportunity to attract funds at supranational level to meet global challenges such as climate warming or just global development. On these two topics a few more thoughts: Of course, an intelligent budget addresses climate policy in such a way that it does not regard it as a financial burden, but rather as an economic, labour market opportunity. The reduction of greenhouse gases can, if it makes sense, go hand in hand with the creation of jobs, the generation of domestic value added and the increase in quality of life at the same time. I think that in our budget there are a few approaches in this direction, which are still extensible, especially from the volume, which is not a question. Summa summarum there are important approaches that point in the right direction. Secondly, the question of fair global development, allow me to say that, of course, it is quite clear that the poor countries, and there again the poorest, have to bear the main burden of the economic crisis, for example, there are less direct investments from the north to the south, the raw materials prices are pretty much in the basement and many developing countries have nothing but their raw materials, which they often have to wear at very low prices. It is still true that food costs, which were at an exorbitant height in the summer of 2008, have fallen again, but have long not fallen where they could afford the poorest billions of the people of this earth. I think it is really important to meet international commitments not to hide behind financial crises, but to make its solidarity financial contribution. The economic crisis, climate warming and global development have one thing in common: All can only be met globally in solidarity. And I think that the Austrian budget, which we will discuss for a whole week, is at least a small contribution in the international context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23596	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23618	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Now, once again, when I point out that the funds for active labour market policy, for training, re-training, measures taken by the AMS in this budget are too low in order to achieve qualitative improvements in this area, I get the 1.3 billion mark from Federal Minister Hundstorfer and today also from the members of the government parties. Of course, you have increased the funds in this area, but you always have to see this in proportion to the already high unemployment rates and to the still increasing unemployment rates. This appropriation is intended to cover: Unfortunately, they cannot achieve the much needed improvements in the field. I am also not satisfied with the fact that this budget remains unclear whether the training guarantee for young people already adopted in July of the previous year can really be implemented by September. That's not clear! The fact that the promised training and employment guarantee for 19 to 24 year olds and a promised temporary worker foundation are now combined into a small measure summarising both the groups concerned and providing only places for 2,000 people is not, at least, what has been promised. It remains a drop on the hot stone. If I continue to ask, also in the Committee on Budgets, where the posts are for the new extended age part-time, for increasing emergency aid, unemployment benefit, for minimum security, Minister Hundstorfer answers that there is no legal basis for this. This brings me to the core problem of this debate: At the end of the day, of course, the budget is just the picture of your government policy. What you have so far failed to get politically on the road is, of course, not to be found in this budget. The urgent need for minimum security, the increase in unemployment and emergency aid and a new labour market policy, which is no longer just aimed at moving into a job as quickly as possible, but rather at supporting such a thing as the need for self-realization. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What you have failed to do is logically not to be found in this budget either. But what really disturbs me is statements like those made by Federal Chancellor Faymann, who says that the budget is one of the social balance, or by Federal Minister Pröll, who at the end of his speech says that, compared to Rest Europe, everything is really great with us anyway. I do not want to conjure a disaster, but I think it is necessary that we conduct our debates on the basis of realistic assessments, especially as regards the living conditions of people in this country. Ladies and gentlemen! 90 percent of all employees in Austria earn less than €3500 gross, which is €2 150 net. 90 percent! If we keep looking: 50 percent of employees earn 1 630 € gross, which is below 1 220 € net. Do you know what a tooth regulation costs for a teenager? – From €3500 you will be there. It can cost up to €6 000. You can get 600 € from the health insurance fund. [[Abg. Amon: Which health insurance fund?]] It doesn't go much on or off! However, there is still a residual financing effort for families from € 3 000 to € 5 000. This varies, but the rest of the funding is enormously high, and families with €1,220 cannot afford such a treatment due to their income situation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And there is talk of “social balance”! Ladies and gentlemen, more and more people are becoming unemployed. We're going to the 300 000! The average unemployment benefit is €750, the emergency aid €600, and then we still have the approximately 200 000 social assistance recipients who need to get out at €450 to 550 a month. And you are talking about social balance, colleague Silhavy today even a social policy focus in this budget! – Unfortunately, I cannot discover such a thing, although it would have been urgently necessary. It would have been urgently necessary, even before budget education, to establish the legal basis for establishing a proper minimum guarantee, to increase emergency and unemployment benefit, and also a legal minimum wage, which would have been automatically valorised, would have been in time. Then we wouldn't have the problem with the zero wage rounds either. Ladies and gentlemen! The social situation in Austria does not look good. From “social balance” is far and wide nothing to be seen. From the labour market perspective and from the social point of view, this budget is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23681	Mrs Fuhrmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23703	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to add what my previous speaker, Mrs Schatz, said when she referred to the subject of youth employment. I think – no, I know, and it was clearly expressed at the beginning of May – that the Federal Government, and especially the Federal Minister responsible for this, Mitterlehner, are very likely to address the important issues of youth employment. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Bravo!]] It was an important and correct measure that, in addition to the planned budget, in view of the difficult situation, especially of the 20 to 24 year olds, with an increase in youth unemployment, there are at least 34,000 people who are involved, an extra measure has been created to support in particular those young people who work in temporary and temporary employment sectors, in order to support them in the re-entry of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is addressed specifically by professional orientation, by internships, but also by coaching young people. This is a concrete measure which also shows that this Federal Government and, above all, the Federal Minister Mitterlehner present this challenge, this problem, and that they have also been provided with additional budget and financial resources, namely from the labour market service, but also from the reserves of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Social Affairs. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Extra!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Haimbuchner asked before the urgent debate what this Federal Government is actually doing for young people. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Yes!]] – This federal government is doing a lot for this youth! For example, the existence of all youth organisations depends on this budget decision in the coming days. The aim is to ensure that both party-political and interconnected youth organisations receive their basic and project fees. That's what the budget's looking for. I think that, especially today and in view of the previous debate, the related youth work is a particularly important one, which we must also support on the part of politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: It is especially important that young people receive good training and get a good job!]] – You say it, Mr Haimbuchner, you are quite right, and good training is of particular importance to young people. Therefore, the budget in the field of education has been increased: In 2009 it is €7.17 billion and in 2010 it is €7.23 billion estimated. [[Abg. Weinzinger: billions? - Millions!]] I think that's a positive sign. I would also like to point out, however, that the measures envisaged for this, namely the reduction of the maximum number of school pupils, the extension of language support, the implementation of the education standards, which were, moreover, already discussed under the previous and previous Governments, but also the increase in adult education resources, are important and appropriate measures, but may mention at this point, even if the Federal Minister is not here, that the final effect is very likely to be on what is being done with increased resources and how these objectives are being implemented. The discussion about the teacher's working time in the last days and weeks has shown how not to do it. I wish and hope that the discussions on education policy will take place soon and in the future, above all, with the involvement of the school partners; for I think there is still enough need for discussion, especially when I think of the new secondary school or the central matura. Mrs. Schmied is not only responsible for education, but also for art and culture. One of their key projects is the education of culture at schools – something I find very welcome and supportive in principle. Something stupid has made me – this is to be discussed with her next week – that the increase of the basic fee for museums, i.e. € 8.5 million, is also used to enable students to enter free of charge. Of course, here is the question of whether it was agreed with the museums that of the 8.5 million 3 million would be used for free entry. Indeed, I do not think that the reimbursement of costs, just as it is contained in the government programme, should serve to ensure that the basic fee is eaten. But all these are points that we will discuss next week in the corresponding chapter. The same applies to the security of the film industry in Austria – there is much to do here too. The Minister has announced that she will be holding talks with State Secretary Ostermayer – a pity, he is no longer here now, and I would have liked to ask him about it in the morning. She has announced that her goal is to anchor the film/TV agreement in the law. We will support them. I hope she can get through to her State Secretary. Finally, because Mr Zinggl has said that he has no desire at all to present himself here and discuss the budget, because everything is for nothing anyway: I'm actually sorry, I always thought he was a very dedicated art and cultural speaker. He may think differently, and he will get involved in the discussions next week. I'd be very happy, or I'd be looking forward to a constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23810	Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Rosary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23832	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! In the debate we have held before, one thing has been clearly shown – and I have also done so during the last debates. always belongs – that the children, the youth, are the most important asset in our society and education is therefore very important. In this budget, as far as education is concerned, quite a few things have actually gone wrong. It was really only possible, most recently and by all the tricks, to put together a budget at all, because what programme would be, would not be implemented with what was foreseen in the budget. That's why this shift comes by two years – with a heavy load, especially when I think about the BIG-Mites. It has just happened that the Minister, who has been very ambitious and committed, was drastically stopped by the coalition partner. There are now the colorful rumors that the exit from the CERN on the other side had been the return carriage. – So much for the good atmosphere in the coalition. Of course, some newspapers can take a picture of that. But the discussion has also shown that Mrs. Schmied, the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, is back from the bottom of the valley. This issue has been re-examined by the problem of political education, which now has to be used more intensively in schools, so that such problems do not happen. Only then do I have my doubts again that this is actually being conducted objectively in education policy – especially when I notice that the Minister of Education, whom I have previously appreciated as very cooperative and informative, clearly dissuades FPÖ in an interview she gave to the newspaper “Austria”. I quote: “He and his party friends” – I count on that – “are trying to make thoughts that we cannot accept as democrats.” Mrs. Federal Minister – even if she is not here today – I am democratic and therefore I will do everything to ensure that our school system attracts democrats and is still possible to express opinions in schools! In one of my next questions, I will give an example of where this freedom of expression in schools is trampled on by teachers!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23883	I call Mr Steier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23904	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have already heard a number of things about the double budget 2009 and 2010 – about the difficult economic conditions under which this budget was to be created, about the need for the measures taken and about the missing alternatives, but also about the fact that no one can say with certainty how keen this recession will be and how long it will take. It's a budget in the sign of the crisis. This is the task of policy to take the right measures to counter the negative spiral and to counteract the insecurity of people in our country. No one criticizes – and this is, of course, general consensus – that, in view of the exceptional economic circumstances, the deficit will rise, and we must not lose sight of the objective of a balanced budget in the future. My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen, politics is required to find the right answers to the economic crisis. It is required to ensure that the People in our country are not being torn into the negative swirl of unemployment and all its economic and human consequences! This budget creates the basis for combating unemployment by investing directly in infrastructure, in thermal renovation, in education and training, in increasing private consumption and, for example, in increasing the liquidity of companies. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the double budget 2009/2010 has a clearly anticyclic design and is intended to take a number of measures to reduce recession. Social compensation, the promotion of employment and the fight against unemployment, safeguarding and improving public services and investment in the future are at the heart of the budget for the next two years. In addition to the federal government, the countries and municipalities will also have higher expenditure over the next two years, but at the same time lower revenue. The economic problems are already affecting the investment activities of the municipalities. In particular, in the area of infrastructure and many projects that are urgently needed for the economy at local level, I believe we will not be able to get around to investment aid to the communities. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not an easy task to put safe measures in the fight against the crisis and to put them into a budget. The essential thing now is not to speak small of what has been achieved, but to discuss it offensively and positively and to bring it closer to the people of our country. Of course you still find something that is missing, or something you would like or prefer. All in all, however, the budget is a result that also withstands the greatest critics. I can therefore ask you to give this double budget together in 2009/2010.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23956	I call Mr Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23977	Mr President. Minister! Minister! At the end of his song of praise on health care, Mr Rasinger mentioned that one reform after another is being implemented; only he has forgotten to say what reform he is talking about. The funding of the health system from a single source is not provided for, a reform of the health care system is not intended, the aggregation of social security funds is not implemented, savings in the administration are not recognizable, so there are no reforms to be seen. The only thing to remember is that the health insurance companies are making proposals to keep their deficits as low as possible – and that is really very little. Let us now come to a request for which the financial resources should be available in the budget. The children are our highest good, healthy children are the foundation for the future. And this health must be worth something to us! In the health budget, countless millions are planned for the decommissioning of health insurance funds, so the money for child health must also be available. Prevention in childhood medicine begins at the embryonic stage, a means for this is the mother-child-pass. The studies provided for therein make an indispensable contribution to the early detection of health risks, in order to ensure that the treatment of diseases and the control of the child's development status. Two ultrasound studies are planned: the first to review the fetal heart, the second to control the growth of the embryo. However, each pregnancy poses the risk of childish chromosome anomaly such as Down syndrome. A fruit water examination was carried out in mothers older than 35 years of age to clarify possible existing chromosomenanomalies by puncture. In doing so, 0.5 to 1 percent of the scores resulted in abortion. Because of the fact that the mothers are getting younger and younger, the anomalies also occur more often in this age group. In the meantime, a ‘fruchultrasonic’ in the eleventh to thirteenth week of pregnancy is recommended to determine the neck fold thickness, the so-called ‘first-trimester screening’. The Combined Test is the most accurate method at present to obtain evidence of malformations in the chromosomal hereditary systems. In this test, a current probability-adjusted risk is identified by means of neck fold measurement and examination of the mother’s hormone value through a special computer program. This value is determined in the twelfth to fourteenth week of pregnancy, which is completely risk-free. However, the major disadvantage of this test is the cost of € 170, which the parents themselves have to bear, as this examination is not included in the mother-child pass and is not paid by the health insurance companies. Especially in the present time, it must be assumed that many mothers will not be able to raise these € 170 and thereby take the risk of bringing a damaged child to the world. Therefore, this examination should be included in the mother-child passport and carried out free of charge. I shall make a request on this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24046	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24068	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! This double budget can be seen, because in economic and financial times so difficult, it is not easy to negotiate a solid budget and put it on the feet. That is why our Federal Minister Josef Pröll and his team are congratulated – he has managed to secure the economic location on the one hand, but on the other hand also to relieve the taxpayers. I do not know how you are, ladies and gentlemen, on the part of the coalition, but I am constantly being addressed by people who are happy. They are pleased to see, when they see in their April statement that more money is left in their pocket – and we owe it to a tax reform that we now feel for the first time. And this is a discharge initiated by this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since yesterday it was always criticized that we only relieve those who pay taxes, I can tell you: Don't always forget that the income-free limit has been increased from € 10 000 to € 11 000 and therefore another 160 000 citizens, thus already paying 2.7 million Austrians no income tax. This is a real contribution to social justice! But – and this is what we are standing for – we want to relieve the entrepreneurial middle class, namely the service providers of our society, because the medium-sized country, with its tax performance, is an essential contribution to the Austrian welfare state! And I welcome the efforts of the Federal Government to support the Austrian companies as best as possible and thus to secure thousands of jobs. A good balance has been found between small and medium-sized enterprises and larger enterprises. This will increase support for SMEs. The aws increases the liability for operating assets to up to €2.5 million. In addition, short-term bridging financing can be paid 80 percent. In addition to these bridge credits, the acceptance of microcredit liability has been extended from €25 000 to €30 000. In order to secure jobs in larger and large companies, the Republic's liability framework was also tied together with the banks within – and not in addition, as is often misrepresented – the banking package. It is not a burden, but a burden is the commandment of the hour! The Austrian People's Party commits itself to this credo. But now let me also say a few words on the discussion about the zero wage round, which was suddenly launched yesterday. This demand has never been made on the part of the economy and industry, and you know that exactly! So, finally, stop worrying people with incorrect claims and drive them on the road. Demonstrations only with the thought of giving new momentum to a seemingly lame AK election campaign may be legitimate from your point of view, but I tell you they are grossly negligent, they are coming right now! But the voters look through this wrong game and don't come back to you, but go somewhere else. It is true, however, that the current, often precarious situation requires unusual measures. This is not about jux and tollery, but because it is simply and gripping about the survival of farms and therefore also about thousands of jobs. If businesses lose 60, 70, even up to 80 percent of their turnover, I often wonder how they can survive such a time at all. That's why I'm asking you all in the house: Finally, you recognize the efforts made by the entrepreneurs, but also by the employed workers, to secure employment and to keep businesses alive! But what are our political competitors doing? – You are currently having an unnecessary envy debate and are calling for new taxes. The discussion about wealth and wealth tax – as the four remaining colleagues who are still here from the Greens call it so beautifully class-warring – goes absolutely in the wrong direction! Every homeowner would be asked to cash out, every businessman and every farmer, if he had a farm and some reason, would be thrown off by you. We will not allow that, ladies and gentlemen. Strengthening the economy, easing people and mastering the crisis must be our way. The European Union has always been an essential partner and will continue to be an essential partner. Even if you don't want to do it: The euro has prevented even worse! The crisis can only be solved in the European context, and the European Union is showing solutions in these times. We from the EIA stand to this European Union, in contrast to all the others. Parties in this House. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24146	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24167	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. This budget faces a number of crises: of course, before the economic crisis, but also before an energy and climate crisis. It is already a challenge to deal with all these crises, and it is certainly also a great challenge to create a corresponding budget. But with everything we do, we move in our environment, and there you have to be aware of what it looks like in our environment. Let's look at the water: 60 percent of our floodwaters do not reach the state they are supposed to have under the Water Framework Directive. In the air: We have more and more fine dust recovery areas. In the area of waste, we have complete planlessness. In the climate we are far above our Kyoto targets and have now reached 50th place in the climate protection index. This is the result of the policies of recent years. We Greens have always warned of these developments; now we are there, but you did not want to listen to us. Now, for me, the question is: How do you deal with this, where do you set your priorities, and where do you put in the budget? Today, voices have already become loud in the discussion: Well, you already have to look at the environment, but we now also have an economic crisis, because you can't treat it like that any more! – I think that’s the wrong way! If you learn something from the crisis – and if only one thing we learn from it – then it must be that we can only solve the economic crisis in accordance with our environment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Where are your priorities now? – In the budget you have planned € 86 million for the free purchase of our climate protection commitments. They have planned € 50 million – € 70 million in 2010 – for free certificates for industry, especially for new gas power plants that will further increase our CO2 emissions. For domestic environmental promotion, which would also secure jobs and for which projects that already exist could be implemented, there is comparatively little planned at €100 million, and also for thermal rehabilitation it is €100 million, for which the climate and energy funds still need to be maintained. We will certainly not be able to achieve our climate objectives! This will also prevent us from dealing with the climate crisis and the energy crisis. Unfortunately, it is no longer possible to think of an environmental model country in Austria. [[Abg. Amon: Well, we're not that bad either!]] Unfortunately, we have become very, very bad in recent years! I also take very painful note of this. We will certainly work on getting back there, getting better, but it also needed appropriate resources in the budget. If you look at what money is for – I mean, it means: Economic crisis, it's not that much money there. But then there is money: for a motorway expansion across the country, for new gas power plants, for new gas pipelines, which will continue to drive us into a dependency, for a completely pointless scrapping premium. They arrest us in old and completely outdated structures, instead of being able to recognize future opportunities. In building renovation alone, 36,000 jobs would be inside, but not with their 100 million, but with 1 billion euros. The eco-sector – I mentioned it yesterday – is waiting for an eco-power law to finally create jobs. Austrian companies are the pioneers, but only in Austria, thanks to their conditions, do not get a chance to finally become active. Speak in Sunday's speeches Always pray up and down all renewable energy sources, only: You don't! And it's not in your budget either. So this is what is called for in the near future. If the Federal Government, in particular the Minister for Agriculture, who is also responsible for the environment, does not act, you should at least do one thing: If there is already the call for us to be able to contribute constructively here and perhaps to change something, then at least you will allow people and NGOs who are working for the environment to make donations to them, so that at least something will happen in the next few years in the field of environment and animal welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24210	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24231	Mr President. High house! The Austrian Federal Government has responded to the global economic crisis as quickly as hardly any other country in Europe, with two economic packages. That was certainly the only correct answer you could give. The economic packages have already shown their impact in general in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Where did they show effect?]] Now it is about evaluating and looking at what can be implemented in the individual districts in Austria and what they bring to the districts in Austria. I come from the district of Liezen, the largest district in Austria. It is known which challenges arise with this size particularly in the infrastructure sector. This is probably not a big surprise for most of them either. In 2013, for example, Schladming takes place, which is in the upper Ennstal, the World Ski Championship. There is a lot of investment in infrastructure. Above all, the Styrian Transport Land Councillor Edlinger-Ploder finds that there is a lot of investment here. Unfortunately, the sustainability of these projects is not yet available, and it is also forgotten that the district consists of several regions, including the region with the Gesäuse National Park. This might also be a little closer to transport councillor Edlinger-Ploder. We insist that passenger traffic on the rails should be completely stopped there. What does that mean to the government? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] But the Transport Councillor, Mr. Colleague, is responsible, isn't he? - I think she knows exactly. It is about investing not only in the East Styria, but perhaps also in the lower Ennstal. The train connections are set up there. What does that mean for the region? – The loss of jobs! And, of course, there will no longer be businesses there unless public transport is provided. I don't need to address what that means for the tourism region either. I would like to say the following: The strengthening of rural areas is often just a phrase, but it must not remain empty words. The budget and economic recovery packages are a first important step towards boosting the economy's engine outside the capitals. In particular, sustainable investments in rural areas should not be forgotten here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24274	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24295	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few comments on today's general debate. First: In fact, the budget seems to me to be just a continuation of the previous positions and facts. It has not really been a big thing, even though today has been tried again and again to explain this. In reality, it's a vortex, as you say in Vienna so beautiful. In principle, nothing is questioned. All positions are continued – maybe a little bit of a plus on the one hand and a little bit of a minus on the other, but in reality nothing is fundamentally changed. The position in the budget only results from the fact that revenue has fallen and expenditure has increased due to the economic crisis situation. In fact, no structural action has been taken. We will have the opportunity to talk about possible structural reforms in the next few days. It is then always asked: Where's the money coming from? The FPÖ is always talking about reducing taxes!, as well as: There are prominent examples, in Austria alone, of corporate tax, which show that even with a tax reduction one can raise revenue very well, because then the attractiveness increases. The same would be possible in the case of income tax, because a tax rate, a tax rate as it currently exists, is now simply anti-performance. In fact, all serious economic researchers recognize this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A brief comment on the subject of short work: I fear – and this is also true of many representatives from the economy, especially from industry – that short-time work could actually be a bankruptcy and may still be that businesses that have now started short-time work will have the problem of having to continue paying social security contributions and then slip into bankruptcy. So there is also a great danger. One point because the Minister of Justice is now present – we have already discussed this in itself, but you, Mrs Minister, were not here –: We have two concerns, essentially, it is a concern in the budget or in the legislative amendments that are now coming. It's about two charges. One is the fee in connection with the right to visit, which is now to be introduced: 220 €, a significant amount for an application, in second instance 330 € and ultimately up to 660 € on fee in connection with the right to visit; this is to be reintroduced. We urge that this be taken out of the law again, because it would be a really unacceptable hardness, especially in such a sensitive area, in which mostly men, but sometimes women also fight for it – and must do so in court – that they can see their children. It is important not to introduce these charges, which can be quite a heavy financial burden. It is similar in relation to the board of directors. Reports relating to a company now trigger fees of 100 €, then at all invoices of 110 €, which, while having to be paid provisionally by the manager, are ultimately to be borne by the agent. We believe that this would also be done away with, because it does happen to poor people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To claim that procedural assistance would be possible here: This is a very difficult thing, because it is precisely those people who need to be put under the authority who have problems to care about it. Finally, a comment on the encouraging results of recent elections: That shows where the trip is going. In Vienna we have, the FPÖ has been able to triple, and the SPÖ has decreased by 12 percent. I am glad that the Chamber of Workers was so prophetic to see in advance what will come out of it. After all, she has printed the following advertising: ‘Rights have been granted right’. [[The speaker holds a paper bag with the appropriate label in the height.]] This has been printed by the Chamber of Workers in Vienna, so she knew in advance what was to come. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are very pleased that the Chamber of Labour already operates in our minds. We will, of course, give her the opportunity to continue working for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24357	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24378	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that I will not even give a nice speech to forty more colleagues. [[Abg. Grosz: I'm here!]] [[Further calls.]] Before I say a few words to the budget... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] That was a criticism of all of us, I didn't stretch out anyone, not you. [[Abg. Grosz: No, but also Mr Faul is not here!]] Before I say a few words to the budget, although I do not want to warm up anything, I would like to say a few things about the previous subject from practice, from many years of practice and experience as a criminal police officer. We here have responsibility for how we polarize, how we stand on things, how we serve stereotypes, how we care for clichés, and thus also make our contribution to how we mobilize the road or not. The criminal act in Ebensee must not be kept silent, that is not a question at all, and it should also be discussed here, but we must stick to the truth and must not run out in one direction or another and not politically instrumentalize this event in Ebensee. This is what I understand: One says – and so on the other – that it was a blaze, and the other say that we finally took up the evidence: O God, in our dear Austria are also the grandsons and great-grandparents of Nazis! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] The fact is, however, that this very case proves that the truth is neither to the right nor to the left. Because these three guys, spoken in my language as a criminal police officer, prove this to be the perpetrators who were not ideologised as we call it. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: The budget is the subject!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] - That's it! They have no connection, which would be detectable and comprehensible, into the neo-Nazi scene. On the contrary, the other was also mentioned. I would like to give an example. I have allowed myself to attend the so-called subversive trade fair in Linz, less than politicians, rather than senior officials of the criminal police. With means of taxation, something is subsidized, where subversive forces are taught how to grapple and camouflage, so that they are not subject to the Prohibition Act. These then march in the black block, mobilize the road, and this is supposed to be to demonstrate against social injustices that will occur in Austria in the future. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the FPÖ.]] I now come back to the budget and I would like to refer to the comments made by Mr Westenthaler. In the internal budget, he does not find the 1,000 additional police officers for the next three or four years. – I can only say one thing: Even annually, they are precisely listed in the personnel expenditure from 2009 onwards. [[Abg. Grosz: No!]] Yes! I'll show you afterwards, dear colleague: 2009: 5 million, 2010: 20 million, et cetera. I would just like to say the following: Let us take ourselves seriously, and let us not radicalize with our own words. If we go back to the words, we will have to use the 1,000 additional police officers in order to keep demonstrators and local demonstrators apart. This is not really the task for which we want to use 1,000 more police officers in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: For the Minutes: Parliament Faul is still not here!]] One more thing to the Federal Army: Yes, the federal army can carry out the tasks with this budget. The German army – and that is what I am saying as an interlocutor – will always be able to secure the security of Austrians in the case of disaster in the country, but all other tasks are only delimited and limited. [[Abg. Singer: That's what I'm looking at!]] I invite everyone who is still sitting here and listening to us to discuss one after the crisis – a lot has already been said about what we have to do after the crisis –: Let us hold a general debate on what we all, all couleurs, want in our responsibility of the German army in the future. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I believe that it is necessary for the federal army to receive the funds necessary to carry on the proposals of the Federal Force Reform Commission. I am looking forward to this discussion. Then all the colors have to confess and say whether they stand for the federal army and its tasks or not. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24523	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24545	Mr President. Ms. Minister of Justice! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The German army is a stepchild in this house; at only 40 It's really a stepchild. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] It has not been treated once in the last two days, only my colleague Martin Strutz has been working for the German army. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The last true Minister of Defense, who knew something, was competent and still recognized by the German army today, was Herbert Scheibner. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since 2002, since the time after the flood disaster and after the “spraying” of the Federal Government, SPÖ and ÖVP have broken this area and led the German army into the crisis. According to the Federal Government Reform Commission, the defense budget should represent exactly 1 percent of GDP, only in this way can the contracts be fulfilled. That's not the case! In recent years, the SPÖ and the ÖVP have abstained from funding. Dear ladies and gentlemen! On Tuesday we will be able to discuss very intensively about the German army and its problematic situation, whether it be about the expansion of the pilot horst tent path, whether it be about the purchase of the Eurofighter or the like. Finally, I can say that the Federal Government's willingness to work is very, very dangerous. Disasters in the form of how they were carried out in 2002 are no longer possible! At that time, 12 000 men had to be employed. I claim today that it would be more sensible to warn under the new chancellor of the Austrian Republic – under Mr. Gewerke Neugebauer – also with the German army with threats of strike. Ladies and gentlemen, it is more useful to strike for a functioning federal army. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In times of economic crisis, more protection and assistance is needed by the German army for Austrian citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24614	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24635	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The discussions on the double budget – the budget we are discussing here today – naturally focused on the impact of the international financial crisis on Austria, the impact on the Austrians, and also on the contributions of all political groups and experts. Important responses to the crisis are, on the one hand, the preferred tax reform, which brings more purchasing power to medium-sized countries, and, on the other hand, active, exemplary labour market policies, sustainable employment and economic growth programmes and deposit protection. Compared to the other countries, it is possible to say that the Austrian government acted very quickly, very comprehensively and responsibly. How long the international economic crisis will last, the experts are far from agreeing on this. It is therefore appropriate to ask: How are those who have lost their jobs? Is the amount of unemployment benefit sufficient for months, or is there a temporary increase in unemployment benefit? Is the extension of early depreciation to facilitate investment for small and medium-sized enterprises now particularly useful or are the proposals of the Urban Federation – the municipal infrastructure investment package – now particularly up-to-date? It is about access to favourable financing opportunities, guarantees and liability for Austrian cities and communities to set up and renovate necessary schools, kindergartens, sports facilities and transport routes. All these considerations, discussions and, of course, calculation are about the social context of our society. In addition to minimizing the impact of the economic crisis, the Austrians rightly expect that all the conditions for such a crisis can no longer be repeated. This is a major challenge for the European Union – a major challenge to be the driving force here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24675	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24696	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear visitors – soon no more visitors – on the ranks; some are still there! This government has been famous since the beginning of its existence for doing much for families and much about social justice. The ÖVP boasts itself to be the family party, the SPÖ famous itself to be the party that stands for social justice, but if we look at what measures this government has taken so far, which decisions this House has left with the votes of ÖVP and SPÖ, then we can only assume that the ÖVP has a very narrow family concept. They mean only those families in which father, mother, and child or several children live, and those families that are well to better deserved. For example, your tax reform, which only these families favour, looks like. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly!]] Our family concept is another. Our family concept is one that is not only based on good or better-earned families, but also on all those families who live at the poverty line in Austria who are afraid of slipping into poverty – but you have not done anything with your tax reform. Our family concept is also based on those families that include same-sex couples as parents – but these are families! –, families where parents have migration backgrounds. [[Abg. Singer: These aren't families!]] You haven't taken all these families into account with your actions so far. On the contrary! They have put forward those measures that would have been useful and would have benefited everyone – for example, investments in kindergartens – and instead invested in an expensive tax reform that does not benefit everyone. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] - Thank you. They have also forgotten those who are not just a father-mother-child – a healing world, just as you always preach it, but those families that are one-parent households. These are not very few in Austria; 13 per cent, in 11 per cent of cases the mother lives alone with the children, in 2 per cent the father lives alone with the children. 270 000 children are affected. You don't do anything for these single-school families. On the contrary, you're announcing. For example, the SPÖ's family spokesperson, Mrs Binder-Maier, yesterday issued a press release in which she points out the situation of these families – these single-parents – in which she also brings the same figures that I bring. But then you can actually get to the conclusion that we need to look at these realities soberly. “That’s why it’s necessary to ‘improve and keep an eye on the situation of single parents’.” Yes, we have this situation in mind, but I don’t know what it’s supposed to be like to take a sober look at the situation. There is an urgent need for action here! Mrs. Justice Minister, because you're sitting here, I'm going to make an appeal to you: Take advantage of the upcoming family package to change, for example, the Maintenance Advancement Act as it has been suggested by the People's Procuratorate for years, namely the creation of a proper basic guarantee for minors, so that especially single parents are not so threatened with poverty. State Secretary Marek has said in the Subcommittee that what she intends to do for single-parents is that a homepage will be set up and the platform for single-parents will continue to be financed. – This too is an insufficient answer. We demand that you make right family policies, make socially just policies, and not just think of those families that are your clients, namely, good and better deserved families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24758	Next speaker: Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24779	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This double budget – I think all the previous speakers have already stressed – is in the wake of a crisis, but of course it also sets clear signs. Especially in economically difficult times, it is necessary to send strong signals and, above all, to act jointly against this crisis. Minister of Finance Josef Pröll did it exactly right. We have decided on the tax reform and therefore relieves people visibly. It turned out – without the government's preliminary work in the years 2000 to 2006 we would not have this upholstery now – that the policy was right at that time. In this way, we can make offensive measures to combat this crisis in Austria and make our contribution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The tax reform in particular is an important signal and above all an important and correct relief for people. In my home district alone, the tax reform for a Hartberger means an average relief of 500 €. In addition, more than 12,000 people fall out of wage tax liability. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But elsewhere it is no less! Do you think Bludenz will be relieved on average less?]] Another step in Josef Pröll's successful policy is the present double budget. One of the worst phenomena of this crisis is, of course, youth unemployment, and I believe that this opinion is beyond the party boundaries. Austria is quite good in comparison with other countries, but we must not rest on this comparison, because the crisis is getting harder and Europe is becoming more and more important to us. With a youth employment package of more than €500 million, we can also stand up to this youth unemployment forcefully. One thing must not be forgotten: We need the economy! – Our planned measures benefit the teachers and help – and this is particularly important – to raise the quality of apprenticeship training and apprenticeship training accordingly. This means that our apprentices no longer need to shy the European comparison. We all know – this is always to be read in the media every day – that our apprentices are at the forefront. They win apprenticeship competitions on international stages, in international competition, and thus we show that we are going the right way in apprenticeship training. Ladies and gentlemen, in the crisis it is also important that we talk about helping people. It does not help anything, and it is fire risky to startle envy complexes here and discuss new taxes. We need to relieve and threaten those people who work diligently who are concerned about their property, who afford a home, buy a house, buy land and property for their families. It is precisely a capital increase tax, a property tax is certainly counterproductive here. I would like to add a few specific figures because my previous speaker mentioned family policy: One mother, alone, two children, five and ten years old, gross monthly salary of €1500, has a tax relief of €1903 per year through the tax reform decision. – So don’t say we don’t do anything in this area! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24825	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24846	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I would like to deal with Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Pröll once again, with his statement, which was directed against my colleagues Alois Gradauer, namely that he should not cause any damage and that the budget should not be so constructively criticised as to allow us to observe the rating agencies and thus possibly damage to the Republic. A second statement, also against Mr Grastaur, who is a recognised expert, refers to the Committee, where Mr Grastaur has boldly confirmed that Mr Grastaur is able to run a company, but this is not enough for policy. It will become a bit illuminating if you read today’s broadcasts, which certain managers – of course commissioned by the ÖVP – give of themselves. Claus Raidl, manager of the Böhler-Uddeholm, for example, says that such politicians harm the Austrian image and pretend we have no past. – So the FPÖ politicians with their clear line are to blame. Not Meinl, not Constantia, not the managers are guilty, but the FPÖ! The advertising specialist Marius Demner sees the reputation of Austria threatened by a decades-long poster campaign, sees the economic location threatened – that Marius Demner, who among other things is among his customers banks such as Constantia and municipal credit. He probably no longer knows how to explain his next campaigns when the FPÖ is so successful. He is waiting for potential tourists to feel frightened. If he thinks those tourists who come here and then seek asylum and don't want to return home just because they use the system, then I should be right, but the decades-long poster campaign of the FPÖ has not deterred any tourists in recent years. Last but not least, Georg Kraft-Kinz – if you know that this is a management director of Raiffeisen Landesbank Niederösterreich-Vienna, no wonder –: FPÖ “is damaging the location, its economy and its people. ” This Mr. Georg Kraft-Kinz is also the one who, together with Mr. Ali Rahimi, a Vienna entrepreneur, founded the “Economics for Integration” association in March of this year, because every fifth management is already responsible for migration – no wonder I look around in Vienna: Kebab stalls, oriental fruit and vegetable shops and so on; every fifth, that's going to happen – instead of focusing on how to get under the arms of the Austrian small businessman, how to help those people who are now out of work and perhaps have the opportunity to become self-employed. Obviously, the Freedom Party, with its budget speaker Alois Gradauer, is not so far away from this criticism, but not so far away from the true figures that we put down if the ÖVP already has to use such managers. But I give you the good advice: Managers should generally know how to deal with budgets. You can certainly tell you what you should do if the scenario we are drawing comes in and the basic indicators that are now being set are not right. Get advice, but don't let these managers appear to pull against the FPÖ into fields!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24897	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24919	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I would like to make a recommendation, especially as two presidents are present, and one advises on how to deal with the next double budget. I think it would be useful and right if one also structured the general debate – as such, I see what is happening today – a little bit. I am sorry if, for example, the Minister of Justice is here and there are actually very few issues that concern her – I know, the individual chapters will be discussed next week, but you should learn from it – or if the Minister of Defence is there and not those issues for which he is competent and responsible, are advised and discussed. . This is only a suggestion, because two presidents are currently present; you will also say that to the President of the Council. I think it's very badly structured. If we hadn't had the urgents, it would have become a very laborious afternoon, you have to say it quite openly. I am sorry that there is also one whom I would like to address, but it is at least the Clubman of the People's Party there: It is true that the educational budget was indeed a difficult birth to be able to make available the money needed to continue the school reforms. If one sees that many of the investments we make here, whether this is the early promotion, whether this is the smaller classes, whether this is the New Middle School, which is becoming increasingly accepted throughout the country, are now bearing fruit and we are spending a lot of money on it, then it is simply a shame and counterproductive – and I ask colleagues of the ÖVP to give it to their educational speaker – then it is a shame and counterproductive if one goes back two steps back, actually going back a few decades by introducing a so-called admission test for the folk school, a test for the people's students to which school they can go afterwards. Ladies and gentlemen, you find no study, no investigation, you do not find any colleagues to be taken seriously who teach at a school that proves that this is a sensible measure. No matter what school system You compare it: This selection at the age of eight, nine is the wrong decision! Mr Amon wants to do this even earlier. The decision has to be a completely different one, and this will also be the more useful economic, national, namely: to continue to leave the students at their school and to strengthen there individually according to their talents, to help them where they need them specifically. It has been proved that even the good, the talented, can still benefit from it, in the field of social learning. Is enrolled in special school, primary school, new secondary school and AHS sub-level. What we do here is the most expensive system. That is why I really ask you to turn your brain on – almost I would say – your national economic thinking. Talk to teachers yourself, with educators, with parents, with stakeholders! It is totally nonsensical, which is proposed again, and we could save a lot of money and use it more meaningfully – in the educational field – when we finally get away from this selection. I will then be happy to discuss this in the special debate if the possibility exists. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24958	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24979	Mr President. High house! Bruno Kreisky founded the municipal credit more than 50 years ago. [[Bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] At that time, the intention of the municipal loan, as the name says, was to provide the municipalities with loans for infrastructure. That's why it was founded at the time. Many years later, especially in the nineties, one then went to finance no longer Austrian municipalities, but foreign municipalities, and then one went on to invest in abstract speculation instead of doing what one was founded for. The municipal loan has invested freshly in loans totalling 12 billion. If you look at the balance sheet amount, this amount is sparse. The municipal credit, which was owned by the Volksbank and the Belgian-French Dexia, was also well deserved. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Long time, that's right!]] The Volksbank and the Dexia benefited from this, because they both possessed about 50 percent of the municipal credit. It was founded its own society in Cyprus, which speculated even more whitish, where it was seen years ago that this could not go well. When that really didn't go well, the owners – the Volksbank and the Dexia – went to the state and said, dear State, we have a big problem there, please let us out! And the state is now going here and taking over this bank for a symbolic euro. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Two!]] – Per owner 1 €, so in total 2 €. That would now be about as if you were going to inherit a billions of debt. That wouldn't make a reasonable person either. And in the case of AUA, it has still been said that a negative purchase price is therefore necessary, because it is debt and all possible liabilities behind it. But this was not the case with the municipal credit. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] In the case of local credit, the Volksbank and in particular the foreign dexia were cut out and took on a risk that is not appreciable. On the contrary: There are 12 billion who float in the air, and there are 2.2 billion debts or definitive mies that have been taken over there, which the taxpayer has to catch. But now the best thing is going on: Not only that a normal, reasonable person would never have done anything like that. He would have let the municipal credit go wrong and would have helped the Volksbank if that had been necessary. So we have co-financed foreign dexia and now we have this clot on our leg. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: View Manager!]] But that's not even the worst; the worst is still coming. The following needs to be broken on the tongue: The State – and thus the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State Lopatka – has agreed that the former owners – that is, Volksbank and Dexia – invest participation capital in the bank and get 8 percent return guaranteed for five years. You have to imagine that! That is to say, first one can be fooled by these former owners, and then you take the money that would be granted to you anyway, it goes to 8 percent and then has to deliver 8 percent each year from taxpayers. – You have to imagine that! [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: That's all shown!]] This is what Mr Finanzminister and Mr Lopatka are doing. We must look at this in detail, including Mr Lopatka's statements from the Budget Committee. I asked him if he had any idea what risk he was taking. He told me openly and honestly, no, he doesn't know. After I asked him if it was often the case that he was taking a risk that he did not know, he literally told me: Yeah, it often happens, the state does it again and again. – You have to imagine that! And then he said – and that's the worst thing at all –: Life is a little dangerous. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: That's right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is shitless!]] Mr. Lopatka, you're right! For the taxpayer in Austria, it is actually dangerous in this country as long as there is a Finance Minister and a State Secretary like you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25091	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25113	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite true that the general debate on the budget can be described as an hour of the opposition. It is one of those times when representatives of the opposition can use the stage of Parliament to become more blatant – the one more, the other less factual; the one more, the other less emotional; the one more, the other less populist; and at least all critical. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is justifiably so and in the sense of a living parliamentaryism even wanted, but with all understanding of this traditional ritual: Of course, opposition politicians and politicians also need to note that, if we look at it more closely and more closely, this budget is fulfilling some things that are essential in this situation. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: to explain this so quietly!]] This government, with Josef Pröll – not yet at the head, but as a finance minister – has taken up the fight against the crisis with very appropriate means. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: (to the ranks of the ÖVP significant) 14 people there! The protocol! The rest is with the lazy in the cafeteria!]] More: This government, with Josef Pröll as the Minister of Finance, also thinks of the post-crisis period with the framework budget. We, ladies and gentlemen, relieve people of the tax reform, especially the families. We strengthen the economy and secure jobs with economic packages and offensives for infrastructure. Unfortunately, as a steirer, I have to note with regret: In the area of school infrastructure, the Styria of the 875 million only receives 4.3 percent. That is little, but a question answered by Minister Schmied clearly stated that the failure in Styria at Landesratin Vollath, Mr Erlitz and Mr Voves can be sought. [[Abg. Grosz: Because Lopatka didn't do anything!]] The problem will be solved soon, in a year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: For the protocol: There are only three out of 14 in the hall!]] Let's go back to federal politics! We not only take the right measures, we also set the right and important priorities in our policies. I call it education policy or the field of internal security. In fact, it is necessary to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, who have already spoken in numerous languages today and yesterday, for they have proved with their contributions to the debate that we are on the right track. Some weren't there at all. I hope that Mr Stadler from the BZÖ has not taken a sunburn today in Oberwart, where – during the plenary session – he has visited the Oberwarter Wochenmarkt. That would be a shame if he had gotten red, gal?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Grosz: Hui, hui! That was a serious attack on the BZÖ now! Don't knock on the pult, we've had it yesterday!]] We're talking about it. Creating perspectives, securing jobs, re-establishing financial services as a prerequisite for the operation of the economy – therefore the banking package. We are concerned with going to work with realism and optimism and leaving the class struggle where he is and where he belongs, in the Mottenkasse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25222	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Schwentner. Also 4 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25244	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many have already “crushed” themselves in the long weekend – obviously also from my own ranks, I now have to say self-critically. [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] In December, we were still able to hope that we could also hope for women's policy that, after the government programme has been presented, some changes will be made to the fact that the high level of projects will be implemented in Parliament until the end of this first year of work. In principle, there is nothing against the fact that we have a women's minister. On the contrary, as long as there are inequalities between men and women in all situations in our lives, it is also important that we have a women's minister – however, a minister who is not only committed to idealising the concerns of women, but also with actions and also with the right budget. The Minister is not equipped with the right budget. Although Mr Wurm, who is not here now, has stressed that the women's minister's budget has been increased, it is still so low that we are moving in the promille area at 0.13 promille in support of women's support for women's promotion and support for women's associations. – That's 0.00013 percent of the total budget available to the Minister of Women, and that's damn little – damn little to do and to actually implement the fully announced projects. [[Abg. Amon: A cross-sectional matter!]] – It is a cross-sectional matter, so the Minister also needs a lot of support from all sides. [[Abg. Amon:... is located in all resorts!]] – That’s right, but it’s the question of how the departments participate in the Minister’s projects. Consider the chapter on anti-violence and the fight against trafficking in women and trafficking in human beings, which is on page 154 of the government's programme, and say that intervention agencies are being expanded, an emergency home for those affected by forced marriages is set up, and awareness-raising measures are to be carried out by police, justice, pedagogists and the health sector. - So far to the promises. In reality, the whole of the figures now looks different: Ms Heinisch-Hosek confirmed in the relevant subcommittee that there will be no money for the development of intervention agencies and that this will be difficult, let alone that regional intervention agencies can be extended and promoted. The same applies to the previously announced emergency home for women affected by forced marriage. This is the second government programme in which this emergency apartment is announced. It is about an apartment where ten women are to be cared for, and we have been waiting for this one apartment for three years now. The Association “Orient Express” conducts discussions on the subject of forced marriage in 426. This means that there are 426 women each year who are affected and threatened by the subject of forced marriage. There is nothing for these ten women who should have room in the emergency apartment and for whom a first budget of €80 000 is needed to set up the apartment. There is obviously a great deal of indifference and disinterest. Unfortunately, the story with the emergency apartment is only an example of many, for that there are a lot of projects, very many high ideas and intentions in the government program, but that these are very different from the concrete budget planning and implementation, and that this simply does not fit into reality. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25303	The next speaker was Mrs Lueger. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25324	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are discussing the Federal Financial Framework Act and the 2009 and 2010 estimates, The actual renewal should be a binding multiannual budget planning. The aim of this medium-term financial planning is better planning, which is certainly also one of the new experiments for us. As a child and youth spokesperson of my party, I can say that, like the topic of women, it is a cross-sectional matter with regard to which especially in the individual departments – whether education, work, social affairs, health and family – individual points appear everywhere, which are very important and also good to follow. Measures in the field of education, such as the reduction of the maximum number of students, the implementation of education standards and, ultimately, the extension and evaluation of the New Secondary School, are set up. For the family and youth sector, €6.26 billion was estimated in 2009 and €6.64 billion in 2010, with a large part of it being handled under the Family Tax Adjustment Fund, where family benefits such as school-free trips and child-care allowances and much more are budgeted and financed. In 2009 and 2010, €9.5 million are available for youth policy. In the Committee, Secretary of State Marek has informed us that, in order to promote youth, the youth organisations will receive basic and project funding in accordance with the legal requirements. A focus – and this fits exactly with our urgent request that we have already dealt with today, and I am also very proud of it – is also that a project promotion for the ongoing project of tracking is assured to continue. However, it would be desirable for planning capacity in the field of youth work to guarantee not only project funding for multi-annual projects, but also to consider whether it would be possible to guarantee basic funding for this in principle. The area of integration is also a cross-sectional matter. It is very important to me – and I have said this in a speech today – that: Whether in the area of children and young people or in the area of integration, it is always about respect and tolerance. I am convinced that the budget, which has now been drawn up in a difficult situation, was certainly not an easy task to bring all costs under one hat, but we were able to send important and correct signals. And a little more than money, that would, I believe, wish each and every one of us, but at the moment there is no possibility of doing so.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25375	Mr Hübner spoke as the next speaker. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25397	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have heard over several hours of proposals from different corners, where we can and must spend more money, but we have not received any further answers to the question of where the money comes from. We have not received an answer to the question of what the rulers or those responsible for the budget want to do in the next few years. Are we going to have a load wave? Are we facing fundamental, perhaps confiscational tax increases? Or are the State's services being re-imposed? – These questions need to be asked, if we create a budget for two years, just as if we want to decide a framework budget by 2013. There's no way through that. What I miss at all is at least just an approach to rethink or rethink the expenditure structure of the federal government, which the state is supposed to do, what the state has to do and what it unnecessarily does, just because he has done it so far. That also concerns us: Even if I look at the chapter federal legislation, I do not see any structural changes, but only increases. If you look at this chapter, you can see that in 2008 we expect a success of € 130 million, next year it is € 136 million, next year € 148 million – 15 percent more. Is that a good example? Is that a good start? Or is this the closing of the eyes before reality? So I'm afraid it's the latter. When I look at our spending practice, when I look at it, we Members, for example, when we fly somewhere, even if it's only 50 minutes, 1. Class or Business Class fly, I wonder: Is that necessary? Is that a good example? Is that a saving family? Can't we even set a small sign? Our request for a minor reduction in public relations in the political field was, of course, rejected here in the House. In addition to our group, no one has agreed, of course the Greens have not. It is a small contribution if we are willing to spend only €200 on an internal flight instead of €800 to €900 per flight back and forth. I don't want to hear all this, but I didn't hear it. If we press ahead with these things, I'm afraid the Greens are right. I would like to quote once again from the Green Policy Guidelines, chapter “Five Steps to More Democracy”. You said the following: “The political objective of the established parties is not to develop democracy but to destroy it.” – Green Guidelines. And on top of that: "The EC integration policy is a programme for the emancipation of a whole nation, because this important decision does not take account of the undemocratic reality of the EC" (or, today, the EU) " whose economic interests do not yet face democratic institutions." [[Abg. Brosz: Just quote! Say the year to that too!]] This programme dates back to the 1990s and was valid until a few years ago. It was only four years ago, as far as I remember correctly, that you were reformed. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Also wrong, but...!]] So, the Urgreen or green-alternative ideas are just to be quoted, and I hope we come to the The debate is still going on to rethink and think about how it should continue and how we will finance it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25446	On the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25471	Mr President. It has already been criticised by speakers from the government parties that it would be an inflexible debate and that an unstructured debate is taking place. Now I note that it is budgetary matter which must be dealt with functionally by the Federal Minister for Finance. I therefore propose to hold a debate and vote on the fact that the Federal Minister for Finance has to go into Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25510	A request was made for Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance to be quoted. This request shall be admissible and shall be put to the vote following a short debate on the Rules of Procedure. Mr Klubobmann, head of the ÖVP, spoke. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25538	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It is here, however, the competent State Secretary or the State Secretary attached to the Minister of Finance, and I therefore find the request quite uncooperative. It cannot be demanded by the Minister of Finance that he sit here on the government bank for twelve and 14 hours. In addition, there are State Secretarys – in addition, the Minister of Science is here. If you do not want to make this request, it is an absolutely unkind act and it is only to qualify as such. I do not really understand it from you, since the Secretary of State is present. The request is to be taken note of, but I would not have expected you to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25565	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Mr Pendl. No, it has been passed on to Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25589	Mr President. We have in itself expected the opposition parties to use this instrument at some intervals. I must tell you, however, that we have the opportunity to represent, with the Secretary of State, who clearly has to represent the representatives of the Minister on the Government Bank, and there are also two ministers on the Government Bank of this budget debate. I believe that this is actually a proper arrangement to enable this budgetary discussion to take place. Therefore, I do not fully understand why we now have to carry out these votes at certain intervals, if we consider this with some seriousness. They have probably had a good overview from above as the weightings and balances are. You will continue to have this overview, which, by the way, is also the benefit of the President. [[Abg. Grosz: The problem is that the lazy is not yet there!]] I would say then stop voting. I cannot, of course, join this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25627	Mr Klubobmann Bucher has now spoken on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25653	Mr President. High house! Of course, it is absolutely legitimate to put this request, no question at all. [[Abg. Amon: Go!]] From my point of view, however, the representation of the Minister of Finance is given by the presence of the Secretary of State. And it would probably also be unreasonable to employ the Minister of Finance here in the House for two weeks. Since I build on the fact that the Secretary of State is able to represent the interests of the Minister of Finance, I think it is highly advisable to leave it as it is.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25688	Mr Brosz of the Greens has also referred to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25723	Mr President. As a rule, the Green requests for quotation from ministers are accepted. Mr Cap has almost prompted me to continue this tradition, because he has spoken in general, and I would just like to draw attention to the fact that last time no representative of the Ministry of Finance was sitting on the government bank. And I think this is an essential difference when it comes to a financial debate. In this case, Mr State Secretary is present. We have a budget debate ahead of us, which will take five days. In theory, the financial sector would always be affected, and in this sense I also think that the presence of the Secretary of State in this debate is sufficient in view of the advanced period. We will therefore not support the request today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25769	There is now no more word message. [[Call the SPÖ: Where's the stretch?]] [[Abg. Grosz: Mr Faul is still not here, well noticed! Where's Mr. Faul?]] [[Call at the SPÖ:Westenthaler?]] It has been enough time for Members to be present. [[Call the SPÖ:Strache?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs.]] - Please calm down! We shall come to the vote. Whoever is in favour of Mr Fichtenbauer's business proposal to quote Mr Finanzminister, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] We continue in the debate. The next item is Mr Hell. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25866	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I would like to say a warm thank you for the fact that the last ladies and gentlemen who are still on the list of speakers have some listeners here in Parliament. It is about the budget, and we all know that this budget is being discussed from its point of view at a time when, of course, the financial and economic crisis is going through accordingly. The highest expenditure we find in the budget relates to the headings of work, social, health and family, and this is particularly important in the current economic situation. The negative development and the necessary measures in the area of youth unemployment and the labour market opportunities for young people in Austria are reflected in this budget. This budget launches and also implements the largest youth employment offensives ever decided. Austria's youth now needs a labour market package that is tailored to its needs. This means that young people's training and training must be forced, a training guarantee must be respected, over-company apprenticeships must be expanded, and public investment must be increased in order to be able to offer employment to young people in Austria as well. Of course, there must also be the corresponding financial resources in the budget. Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer recently launched the “Action Future Youth”. This ensures that young people between the ages of 19 and 24 receive an offer for employment or training within 24 months. This package is based on two pillars: One is the training guarantee for young people up to the age of 18, and the second pillar is that young people between the ages of 19 and 24 are to have an employment relationship. This package also shows the first positive effects. In April, 12 774 young people have already started work on this package. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Consumer policy and consumer protection are also facing major challenges in the face of this global economic and social change. Austria has a very high standard when it comes to protecting the rights of consumers. I believe that this budget has created the financial conditions for ensuring that the standard currently in place in the field of consumer protection is further guaranteed. With this budget decision, let us create the financial prerequisite for these planned measures! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25918	Next, Mr Magistrate. Widmann speaking. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25940	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about economic packages in Upper Austria, for example. If you look at the paper like the SPÖ a little closer, you can see that this is called loud measures, which were essentially planned anyway, but were then preferred – whether this is the Machlanddamm, whether this is the music theatre with 250 million €, whether that is the residential building or much more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] There are no new projects, no creative projects, Mr Bartenstein, and I am sorry. [[Abg. Grandruck: Who says that?]] It is in principle an image of the federal level. The projects are inconceivable, they are not creative, they do not set new accents. And the result, Mr Bartenstein von der ÖVP, is also clear: In Upper Austria, there are 40 000 jobs, an increase of 45.6 percent compared to April of the previous year, and 20 000 people are in short-time work! That is, in Upper Austria every tenth of the crisis is directly affected, and I believe that it would be good for the ÖVP to take responsibility for it and not simply to clean up with paper. The same applies also to the budget accompanying law, to the health insurance funds. In Upper Austria, three of your Members did not agree because Upper Austria will pay 30 million in surplus and only 2 million will return. These are things that just aren't all right. Either you're here or you're not. But now to the core of the subject, to science. There is one who really knows himself and I believe that he is good will to do something for science: This is the Minister of Science, Mr. Hahn, who is a professional minister, but who is left out by his own party to succeed and ruin – by Mr. Pröll in Lower Austria, by his own Finance Minister and finally also by Federal Chancellor Faymann. These have made him judge: You can't rework in this budget, and you won't get more money either! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you can't make science budgets! I can't do that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Under the rule, if you deduct the study fees and increase the collective contracts for the scientific staff, a minus comes out. In view of the fact that the research and development rate in the economy will also fall by 5 percent – that is almost €400 million less! – in the future, we have a real research emergency in Austria. There is a competence confusion – read the “Kurier” of tomorrow, that’s where it stands! – and there is also a lack of the overall concept. There are five ministries that are responsible and the overall strategy is missing. That is, we have no money from the Minister of Finance, we have no room for design for the Minister of Science, and the Chancellor also says Njet. This brings research and development to the distance in Austria. There is no overall strategy, and we will continue to go there on a research policy line and we will also fail to follow up on research policy in Europe. Stop it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25994	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl's next speech. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26016	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! I have examined this double budget with regard to the various committees I may be members of, and I have seen that one of the priorities is environmental policy. I am sure that we will succeed in this double budget, which takes account of the challenge of a forward-looking environmental policy. to implement the objective set out in the Kyoto Protocol over the next few years. Of course, this does not mean that we can now lean back – no, on the contrary. This is only right to see as an order for everyone to protect our environment for future generations. I am also particularly pleased that additional money has been estimated in the sports sector. How significant sports activity is for the preservation of health, of which we are probably all aware. But also the social and social components must not be disregarded. At the same time, sport promotion means promoting and demanding our youth and, in particular, setting economic impulses in the current crisis. Supporting economic but also ecological initiatives is a top priority in the world's miserable economic situation. I would like to highlight the fact that, despite this crisis, the budget for women was increased by 14 percent in 2009 and 12% in 2010, which facilitates the creation of a framework for equal treatment for women, even though Mrs Schwentner spoke only of Promille. After all, more than €10 million is available for women's policy for the first time. Now a few words about the area of the interior. For the years 2009 and 2010, each budgeted an increase of more than €200 million compared to the previous year, the main share of which will benefit personnel costs. An increase of 1000 planning points is planned for the Executive. In this context, I should like to point out that there have been too few executive officials in my hometown of Leoben for a few years now. In other words, the planning sites are under-occupied, and the executive bodies in service have to do almost overhuman things. I very much hope and appeal to Mrs Fekter that some of the new 1000 planning places in the double budget will also be left on Leo. Ladies and gentlemen! Although the 2009/2010 budget does not give rise to so-called joys for some sites, despite the economic situation, our Federal Government has succeeded in creating a budget for our families, for our employees, but also for our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26077	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26098	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Everyone is talking about crises, but we can also consider whether our approach to the budget does not also have something critical in it. I think in times of scarcity a kind of cannibalism is protegrated between the resorts, between the scientific disciplines, between the themes health and many more. There's always someone doing it. I think it should not be a self-evident debate on the budgets, and I would like the government to focus on the fact that these are also identified as priorities in the budget. Otherwise, one cannot convey that to the population and voters either. Now to science. One can have different opinions on CERN, but the whole debate has only arisen because the budgets were not as good as some wanted or how some wanted to make us believe it. Willingly, I believe, one does not go into these situations, but it cannot be that, so to speak, a flagship of science must be put at risk by proclaiming a cooperation in order to help others. I'd wish that in a government, everyone would pull a line. If the Wifo and many other institutions and experts are restlessly criticizing the fact that research is fragmented in their competences and budgets, why is it totally unthinkable that not also the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, who are talking about the spin-offs of CERN and international cooperations, will their minions contribute, for example, to Mitterlehner from his department, Bures from their place of business? That's where you could set signals. It is also necessary to send signals to young people and their parents, because you want to have a good education of wider sections of the population, and also wish – not only for the children, but also for the location of Austria, also for the Minister of Finance – the more trained, the more employees, the more taxes. This investment in the education system therefore has a high return. As many others say, saving is not necessarily useful. Nevertheless, it was saved. I don't want you to say, well, then we're not doing international cooperation anymore. We have to do it! And if the money is not there for that, everyone in Parliament has to stand up behind – I say it quietly, I don't enjoy it either – Minister Hahn, even behind Bures and from me also behind Mitterlehner, and say: That's not how it is! I would have expected that, but I never heard it. But now a short other example; this was a big debate: Uni councils set their salaries themselves. Some work for free. All university councils put their salary at rest or do not ask for it or donate it. Science is not eligible for funding, but if a university council – and now I call Tyrol – doubles the salaries at the first meeting, if the university councils come there now, which is threefold compared to earlier, if a university council in Innsbruck receives much more than one university council in Vienna, then I would already say that there should be so many things to look at, in particular whether there are links between University Councils, the country of Tyrol and Holding TILAK, business relations with sub-companies, because this could be contrary to the interests of the university and the interests of the federal government and the department. I wish from university councils that they represent the interests of the university and not their interests by courtesy to the institution, by eye twinkling. I don't want to put this to anyone, but I want to be calm and sleep well with the knowledge that this is not the case. I would ask you, Minister, to throw one eye or two at it once.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26166	The next speaker was Mr Hechtl. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26187	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! With the double budget, the proposals for 2009 and 2010 and the Federal Financial Framework Act were put into figures the political will and political will planning for several years. This budget, which has been drawn up under the most difficult conditions, has the highest expenditure in the headings of work, social, health and family and is a clear sign of a social manuscript. Despite savings in the staff plan, the executive has succeeded in enabling an increase of 1,000 police officers, thus offering more security to the population. The increase in unemployment caused by the economic crisis is vehemently countered by an active labour market policy – plus 23 percent of financial resources. The short-term work arrangements and the training guarantee for young people are some exemplary measures. The Federal estimates also provide for more financial resources and measures for health. In 2009, € 45 million will be made available to the main association for the distribution to the local health telephone with a negative clean capacity. With the creation of the health insurance fund amounting to € 100 million, a contribution is made to a balanced delivery of the local health care. By relinquishing the claims of the federal government towards the local health telephone of € 450 million, a substantial relief of the local health telephone also occurs. The resolution of reserves in the compensation fund amounting to € 42,5 million will take a further step towards the financial support of the local health telephone. All these measures are an essential contribution of the budget to ensuring high quality health care for people in our country. The present budget will set the right budgetary weightings, growth, employment and distribution effects will occur in a situation that is truly not easy. Dear ladies and gentlemen! These budget expenditures also require consolidation. Although the stability programme reveals how to achieve a reduction in Maastricht deficits, consolidation can only be achieved through a mix of revenue and expenditure measures and by socially balanced measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26245	Mr Dr Karlsböck spoke as the next speaker. Also 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26267	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! This morning, the Minister of Finance, Vice Chancellor and Party Minister of the ÖVP advised us not to be so strict with the government and to be more reticent because this could have a negative impact on the results of any credit rating agencies observing us. In this context, I would like to remind you that yesterday we adopted a budget accompanying law, and a few hours after this has happened. black national leaders – from Vorarlberg and Upper Austria – have filed a constitutional action against it. I find this fact more than surprising. I would even go so far as to call it scandalous, because it is more or less degrading parliamentarians to unmistakable demolitions. I am saying this because I believe that within the government or at least within the EIA, it was certainly known that there would be such a reaction. This money, which should be released from the disaster fund, should have been a key pillar in financing the health reform or the cash recovery package. But if I know before that this money may not be available, then I must not put such a thing into a budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At all events, I think that this budget is unfortunately a complete step past the realities. Only two small examples: As has been said, the health reform and the cash recovery are the cornerstones of this double budget. We know that the health insurance companies owe €1.2 billion. The Minister responsible, Mr Stöger, meant that we achieved a partial success with €730 million, namely that half of the debt would already be depleted by the funds allocated. But if we see, for example, that the local health insurance fund has forecast a deficit of € 135 million for this year, but will actually have a deficit of € 195 million, and next year instead of the forecast € 341 million € 417 million, the back and front will no longer be able to vote. If you count all those numbers that you can't all now, because that would lead too far, it becomes clear: There are hundreds of millions of euros missing, which should now only be used to cover new debts. So as a comprehensive health reform, which should be completed at the end of June, I do not know and cannot say. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] But I would like to mention the following, a very interesting matter: Still and secretly, a revolutionary system change has taken place in the preparation of the health budget, namely that the financing of the cash registers and the financing of the health system should be carried out by means of taxation. This is now a small pillar, has begun with this Structural Funds. But I see in it a real taboo, because until now it was so that self-management has provided the funds – and now it is to be quietly and secretly financed through the back door of the system from means of taxation! There may be a sacred pillar of social democracy, the trade union tradition on the test stand. We will be happy to see how this will continue. Tension is announced, especially in the field of health reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26340	The next speaker was Mr Christ. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26361	Thank you very much, Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! The budget time in Parliament always reminds me of the budget time in my home community – of course knowing that there are other dimensions to negotiate. But there are always the same questions: What fixed revenue do we have in the community, what fixed expenditure? How much money is available? What are the urgent plans to be implemented? What are the wishes of the citizens, the political groups? Goals must be formulated, visions must be discussed. It's always about the question: What can be expected of citizens in economically difficult times? Where are they usefully involved in projects? Which topics and areas have priority? – In any case, measures must be taken to convey security and predictability to citizens, especially in turbulent times. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the Federal Government must also do its work in this way: with skill, with the look for the essentials, for the feasible, with creativity and commitment. For my part, I can clearly see from our Federal Chancellor and from his ministers that they are doing so. I also see this in particular in the area of national defence and sport, where Minister Darabos has made great efforts to develop as positively as possible the serious heritage in the field of national defence. But even in sport, it is not easy to take into account all the wishes of the umbrellas and professional associations and at the same time to give space and, above all, money to broadband sports, the efficient promotion of top sports, the movement initiatives in kindergartens and schools, as well as new ideas. Ladies and gentlemen! Helpful in these tasks are good or even better ideas, good conversations and mutual support. Little help is if different groups only find more hair in the soup, only deliver more polemic contributions and often still provoke. Then the whole thing is emotional, and we don't really want to do that. Our Federal Minister Darabos tries to represent the area of national defence and, on the other hand, the field of sport as best possible and committed, to launch new projects and to make positive contributions. I think we have every reason to support these efforts in the best possible way and to see that many positive more than the few negatives. – I invite everyone to do this quite cordially.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26409	The next item is the speech by Mr Huber. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26430	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! My previous speaker spoke of Polemik. Just one thing to do: A lot of polemics also makes the ÖVP. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] I would recommend that everyone buy and read the “Wiener Zeitung ” today. There is an interview by Dr. Franz Fischler, the former Commissioner for Agriculture. You need to read that. Dr. Franz Fischler recommends that dairy farmers in Austria look for a side job. – That means that they should also be burdening the labour market. That's just incredible! - Yeah, that's cynical, that's double cynical. [[Call the BZÖ:Cynic!]] [[Abg. Grossruck: Which side is that on?]] Of course, Fischler also demands a massive capital increase tax. There you can see how “some” the ÖVP is. You rejected my request yesterday to support the 5-percent ban on milk suppliers. That's where you voted against the farmers, and we're going to sell it medially. But, colleague Grossruck, in the APA today it is to be read that the Bavarian CSU Agriculture Minister will accept my bill; in Germany this will be realized.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26494	The next item is the speech by Mr Köfer. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26516	Mr President. High house! In times of this economic crisis, not only the population and the economy, but also the government's departments must tighten the belt. From this point of view, we are also discussing this double budget. In our communities and in the cities, we also equip ourselves with our own budgets for the coming months of the crisis. Of course, some of us have also saved deposits, which we can attract. Many municipalities are now increasingly investing in infrastructure, thus stabilizing the job situation. That is, the social democratic communities in Carinthia have done their homework. But we are also, as is probably the case in the other federal states, handed over to the dictatorship of the respective financial and municipal representatives of the country. The Carinthian financial and municipal representatives have so far not proved a lot of imagination. After the election, there will suddenly be dramatic savings in the social sector, cuts in already promised allocations of needs to the communities, the abolition of long promised projects that would be urgently needed for the economy and tourism. These incisive measures are sad on the one hand, but it will still be very funny again in Carinthia. [[Abg. Bucher: But this is not a Landtag meeting! That's a National Council meeting! You're baffling something!]] I don't know a single event, dear Seppi Bucher, that should be saved in Carinthia because of this crisis. It will become very narrow for many families as regards daily bread, but at least our games will work in Carinthia. Why not? There is no media side to this either. We are also lucky to see a training game of FC Barcelona for a full million euros – of course, tax money. Now, of course, there is the counter: That's all paid, sponsors will be there, the stadium will be sold out. We know these sentences. We were promised a lot, but unfortunately very little was kept. But we have learned to live with this policy. Although Carinthia will never play in the Champions League, we have already become several Austrian champions in debt policy. Dear friends, go back to the subject. Justice will have to save, the Federation will save, though not always in the right place. It is unacceptable, of course, from the point of view of the population, to increase and reintroduce court fees; in particular, I would like to mention those in maintenance and family law. If an application for a child visitation right is to cost €220 in the future, I think it is not a cardboard handle. It may already be true that, in the event of a strained financial situation, procedural assistance can be claimed, but it remains a bitter pity when voting on the budget accompanying law that a barrier to the harm of children is being built. Children need both parents, no matter what form of life father and mother have chosen. Finally, I would like to say to the Federal Minister that there should be no further closures and mergers of district courts.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26552	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26574	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Science! Mr. Minister of Defence! I think, after about 11 hours of debate, you really have to address the absurdity of this today's division – you can't actually talk about classification – to this speech today again. It makes no sense at all to hold a general debate in which between the dairy sector, community finances and then again some defence budgets are hopped back and forth. Please, that really does not correspond to the dignity of the House that there is such a mess in a fundamental debate! [[Abg. Großruck: You have made a urgent inquiry!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: We will try to bring about a change in this practice at the club level and at the President level – Mr President, I hope that we will find an objective partner in you – because this is really a relatively pointless one. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the FPÖ.]] The challenge of the hour for me is the bow. Mr. Minister of Science, you may know – you are working all the time bored in your documents; I want to rip you out – and one should talk about the fact that, for example, the Economic Research Institute in a study on investment, employment effects and national economic effects finds that it would be most useful to put budget resources, public funds in research and education. - That's the Wifo. Mr Heinzl – I have to call for dialogue here, otherwise you will sleep in – you have presented us today with investments in infrastructure. The same study by Wifo clearly explains that the employment effect is that the national economic effect results in comparison with infrastructure and education and research in favour of education and research. That's why I'm saying: We need some money in the infrastructure. I'll give you the right. The tracks from the monarchy and the 70 percent lead to the fact that we currently have 17 slow travel points between Vienna West and Neulengbach alone. I know we have to invest there, but there are a total of €800 million. And the other part of the annual investment of over €2 billion, which is now going in this direction that you have outlined, would divide me into research budget, education budget, and – Minister of Defence, you will now be involved in the speech situation, because otherwise you will be terribly bored boring – the department of defence urgently needs money for the implementation of the federal reform! That's what I see as a Cardinal's task! It is also a matter of bringing up a genuinely sustainable defence policy on the budget. [[Complementary of the Abg. Windbüchler-Sauschill.]] You always make a Council of Ministers decision on a budget that gives you, Mr. Science Minister, too little to give you, Mr. Defence Minister, and that on the other hand, extra-budgetary debt – in the direction of Heinzl I say now: Infrastructural investment – lets a huge increase. That's the problem! We have a structural presentation problem: It will be invested where it is not directly budget-relevant, namely extra-budgetary. And for the first time – and this is what we have to count on the financial resort – we also have a budget issue about the outsourced Republican participations – about the ÖBB, via the ASFINAG, via the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft – because there are the debts that will make us a big problem in the future. And I'd like to finish with that. Remember – Mr. Finanzminister mentioned already in 2013 –: 2011, 2012, 2013 is about financing the current investments, the current debt mountains! And remember, 2013 when economic recovery should come back, there will be massive oil price increases in the house, that massive energy price increases will have to be dealt with! That is why, Mr Grossruck, you too should be involved so that you do not have to get to grips with yourself, our common body and life theme, namely thermal building renovation: In this direction too, we need not only €100 million, because we need a lot more, because that has the effect that private capital is also developing in this direction. [[Abg. Großruck: The country Upper Austria makes...!]] Read today’s “Kronen Zeitung”: On page 10, it is about securing more than 6,000 jobs with 300 additional million in Vienna! Mr Heinzl, these are the jobs we need! There the efficiency factor is massively higher! That is why I would like to conclude with the appeal: Read the Wifo report, act after the Wifo report, and invest properly, namely sustainable and ecologically! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26647	The next item is the speech by Mr Lipitsch. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26669	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Especially during the difficult time in the context of the economic crisis, it should be noted that the family budget is spent at €6.26 billion in this year and €6.64 billion in the coming year, and that these funds, or a large part of these funds, flow into the family compensation funds, from which family allowances, as well as other family benefits, such as school leave and child care, are paid. In addition, €28.7 million will be spent on further family policy measures in this year and €76.7 million in the coming year. And for young people – we have discussed a lot about it today – €9.5 million is budgeted for youth organisations, but also for projects, and I believe that this is a very, very important measure. Additional costs are, of course, covered by the compulsory kindergarten year, the last kindergarten year, as well as by the planned introduction of income-dependent child allowance. Something very positive, which is also reflected in the budget, is the decided disbursement of the 13th. Family allowances, which provide very much support to families, or the recently decided child allowance, but also the deductibility of child care costs. Something else important is included in the budget: It is planned for the next few years to make more budgets available in the field of school books in order to cover this area as well. As far as the tax relief package is concerned, people or workers have found a little more money in their wallets in recent days and weeks and weeks. This is very positive for the families and is also accepted by many very positive in order to be able to work in their families for possible expenditure that is simply incurred. We also know, however, that in the area of the family compensation fund, a new regulation is essential in the future in order to ensure the benefits to families. In this connection, however, I would also like to join with Mr Obernosterer and to make a clear call for BZÖ to Carinthia, the great effort that this government is making for people and for families in this Republic, not to interrupt by the planned re-introduction of payments to those in need of care. It must not be for these people to have a budget of the country of Carinthia running out of the row, I say now, to finance in addition if this event policy has not been appropriate.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26717	Next speaker: Mrs Kitzmüller. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26738	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We have heard a lot today, but the families have been too short not only in the speeches but also in the budget. If you look at the FLAF, i.e. the family compensation fund, which has existed since 1955 and is designed to promote families and only family benefits – and no other social benefits – then you have to say that it is used very purposefully. It is increasingly hollowed out and led to bankruptcy. In 2010 it will be particularly bad, because all other funds will be reduced and the family compensation fund will mainly be included in the pension system, where one is trying to save pensions, but not – for which he is actually intended – can cover family benefits for the families. [[Abg. Silhavy: Do you know what benefits will be paid from FLAF for pension insurance?]] Of course! But it's just too much what's going on in there. For example, the increase in the FLAF contribution to pension contributions for child education periods: This rose from 50 percent to 75 percent and will make up 888 billion in 2010, which will then flow into the pension system. And that means a caveout. This means an increase from 2009 to 2010 by €333 billion, ladies and gentlemen. And that's an increase of 333 billion € in a year! If this is already so much in a year, how much will it be in the next few years! And besides what has now been said about FLAF: From the 2009 tax reform, families in which both parents go to work benefit, but not those families in which a parent decides to stay with the children at home and care for the children themselves. As we see, ladies and gentlemen, politics is being pursued here at the expense of the families and the future of our country, and only economic policy. And economic policy is at the expense of family policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need families who have sufficient financial resources and are supported. However, this approach in the budget is completely missing.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26784	The next item is the speech by Mr Windholz. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26805	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! This double budget has an uncanny figure in it. For 2009, we have been here late – that should have been done much earlier – and for 2010 it is totally unpredictable. These are assumptions that unfortunately God will not play out. Of course, we will need much more on the expenditure side; as far as the revenue side is concerned, everyone says that this is not feasible. In this context, it is necessary to see the opportunities to act effectively on the part of expenditure. In particular, the public service is constantly being put into play. They have committed themselves in this budget to saving planning posts at the public service. If you ask – and I asked each minister in the Committee – what administrative reform will be accompanied by this, you will receive the answer: You don't know yet. Working groups, what does the cuckoo know who will deal with it all. So no answer. The foreplay was already what happened in the school area with the teachers. That was then the 1 : 0, as now is titled. In the meantime, Minister Hahn has had to note that it stands at 1: 1 – with the 20 million savings it will not be. What has been opened with this will be continued seamlessly in the Ministry of Justice: They're going to have an uprising with the judges, the prosecutors, the law enforcement. While the probationists do not seem to be budget-effective directly as personnel costs, this is charged by associations; there is also a reduction. You'll see what's going to happen in the Ministry of Justice! So did the Ministry of Education, and also the Ministry of the Interior with the police. You can forget these 1 000 from this number – that is what we need in Vienna alone. Until this becomes effective, the year 2015 will come. The German government detto – you will not finish with the current reform. In the Ministry of Finance exactly the same picture. All of this will not be beneficial if there are no simplifications, let alone the major administrative and state reform. They didn't take advantage of the chances. Especially in these times, you should have dealt with it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although he is not present, he has said something very important to me today – I very much appreciate him for his experience. He said: We must get through to structural reforms! - Yes, we stress that. I don't know who he meant to be “we”. Perhaps the ÖVP, which in its form always has three opinions on each subject? Or is it the great coalition? Or is the whole Parliament supposed to be? – It is nothing of it to be seen. The federalism debate will overestimate that, as had been done. It is therefore to be feared bad. The public officials will give their answer. I can only tell you: Good officials make a state even manageable if he has a very bad government. With this government we need not only good, but very good officials!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26860	Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill's next speech. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26881	High house! The futility of the budget and the wrong priority of expenditure are truly balanced in this budget. And in the final effect, young people and young adults pay for it. There is no security at all, because there are no exit scenarios, there are no ways out of the crisis, and there are no projects to be identified in terms of what the post-crisis time should look like. Youth needs security, security needs financial resources. And as long as this house is fighting against taxing the super-rich and the rich, the young people will have to live at their expense. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Wöginger of the ÖVP said this morning that there must be joint efforts with the youth to save expenditure on the part of the public. – to save expenditure together with youth: I'd like to ask him what he means. Does he mean that he continues to cut the youth budget that has already been plunged together? Does he think that subsidies for youth organisations will be removed? Does he think that project funding for young people is being reduced? Does he think he's going back and forth to the education system? Or does he even mean to cut open spaces for young people? The answer has unfortunately remained to our colleague Mr Wöginger, and I believe that the answer is not clear to the government parties either. One thing is clear: the cost of the budget must be borne by young and young adults. In the many speeches today, youth has been mentioned over and over again, but youth has been called especially in connection with youth unemployment. But youth is much more than youth unemployment! Youth also means precarious employment conditions, youth means "generation internship", youth means school dropouts and school dropouts. And youth also means, the generation of To be perpetrators and the victim's uncle. And culprits and victims mean that it is finally time for history to work out well and profoundly, to open up history through political education. In this House today, all parties have expressed their support for anchoring political education, except the FPÖ. Today, too, the BZÖ has said that political education should be strengthened. That is why I propose that SPÖ, ÖVP, BZÖ and Greens should finally take this step together.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26932	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e26954	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! I noticed that on the subject of pensions, pensioners, seniors, no-one has lost a single syllable over the whole long day – which is actually very thoughtful for me, considering that over 2 million people in this country are affected. I would just like to focus on a few points very briefly. There is a statement by the Federal Minister that next year the pensioners want to return to the consumer price index, which is in blatant contradiction with the decisions of the Council of Seniors, because there was a unanimous decision, with the votes of all the representative seniors associations – SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ – that ladies and gentlemen should actually be paid according to the Pensionist Price Index. It is also true that in 2008 here in this House, with the approval of the Socialist Group, a decision was taken not to stop the senior pension ticket at the ÖBB but to continue. But what do I have to read in the newspapers now? – It will be stopped, ladies and gentlemen. The seniors' package is set. People outside don't understand that. You decided to do this in September, and now it's going to stop! – This too is an attack on pensioners. The recipe fee cover is still not done, ladies and gentlemen. The persons whose income is under the compensation allowance must nevertheless cover at least two percent of these prescription fees, which alone in 2009 is above 186 €. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is an unheard-of process that has not yet been able to stop it. And why not? Because, as he said in the Committee, the Federal Minister would like to know about the main association, and he is putting it back on the Federal Minister. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, people outside don't care who does it. It's just made at last! In the case of the e-card, no one understands that, contrary to the decision of the Pensioner ID Board, there is no need to accept the pensioner's card. That would have been the simplest thing in the world to finally give the e-card a pension card to people. In conclusion: Criminal statistics, ladies and gentlemen, show for the period January-March 2009 that there are 6 200 Thefts in apartments and single-family homes. The elderly are particularly affected. A 37.7 percent increase in single-family homes alone – 58 percent more in Vienna – and 25% more in apartments. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, do something about it! People will thank you. If you do not mind, you will receive the corresponding invoice for the next elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27005	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27037	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on the barracks in my hometown of Freistadt. The reason lies in the fact that there have been discussions under Minister of Defense Platter over the last few years, but especially under Minister of Defense Scheibner, there have always been considerations about “liquiding” the barracks in Freistadt. And, rightly, the population, together with politics, has repeatedly set itself up as a Wehr – in the end, successful. The Kaserne Freistadt is important for our mill district. It is important for economic policy. After all, there are 50 jobs. It has been a purely training barracks for about three years, and, as mentioned above, it has a huge economic importance for our region. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because of the budget that we are discussing today – and I hope to decide together next week on Friday – the location of this barracks is safe and 50 jobs are safe. I would like to thank you very much, Mr Minister of Defence, that this will work again in the future, and I would say that it works even better than in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27077	The next speaker was Mr Tadler. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27099	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Is the Member of Parliament still there, Faul?, no?, isn't it? – I fall into this double budget, which will never hold, ladies and gentlemen, only the debts of our children and children. Many millions are being thrown there. There are no funds for whispering asphalt and noise measurements for people in crisis regions such as the Tennengau, where people are sent into short work and where there have never been as many unemployed as now. According to the Court of Auditors, Mrs Bures prefers € 8 to 12 billion for the Brenner base tunnel. And there is no money available for the people who are angry! The same is true, ladies and gentlemen, in other areas. For example, the appointment with EU coordinator Dr Adamovich regarding the 380 kV line has been postponed for the 70th time and should now – how should it be different? – be transferred exactly to the day following the EU election. It may be that he fears our popular lawyer Ewald Stadler for a little bit. The opponents of the 380 kV line are impressed with false promises and intimidation – preventing the construction of river power plants and related flood protection and expansion of the commercial area in Zell am See. This is equally clear in terms of energy. Last winter we found out how much the EU and thus Austria depend on energy supplies. There should therefore be a massive promotion of renewable energy and a clear departure of fossil energy sources. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Yes!]] A long-term goal must be to make Austria energy self-sufficient. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber and Bravoruf des Abg. May. Kogler.]] Thank you, Mr Pirklhuber. There is also less money for the construction industry in this budget. The funds for the promotion of thermal rehabilitation have already been exhausted. The BIG also has to accept € 240 million of the rent receipts it has to borrow on the capital market. The government thus undermines its own economic package. For example, planned renovations of schools and the new construction of public buildings are simply postponed. The question arises: How long will these projects be postponed? - Probably on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. The Minister of Justice – I spoke to her outside earlier – also told me that the reconstruction of the court building in Salzburg is likely to take place in the next millennium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27147	Mr Pirklhuber is next spoken. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27169	Ladies and gentlemen! I think that's the 92. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I try to pick up a little bit, as I would like to highlight some aspects of the crisis that has already been mentioned. From my point of view, there are three elements of this crisis, which indicate that the continuing suffocation as before or the continuation of previous policy will be increasingly difficult in the future, yes, in the coming years. The three elements of the crisis are as follows: One has already been widely discussed, namely the financial crisis. Then there is the climate and energy crisis and finally an institutional crisis, namely a political crisis – a crisis of political governance and political influence on the real economic and social events. I would like to highlight the budget a little bit from this point of view, so that we can see other elements as well. I think Minister Hahn is also a philosopher and may be able to take along some interesting aspect here. Mr Minister, the question is: What are debt, and above all, how do these debts come about? – The bank package means nothing but that the state guarantees the banks and makes billions available, but at the same time With this double budget, the state also gets billions on the paper. From whom? – Of course, from the Austrian banks. This is, as it were, a confidence spiral, a pact between two actors, namely the financial sector and the public sector, which are increasingly interconnected. But what's the core in there? – A certain advance of confidence, namely a advance of confidence in the work of future generations, on developments in the future economy, Mr. Federal Minister. And it is actually a question of securing this confidence through budgetary measures. This means that our expectations are also secured by measures, by means of framework conditions. What are such safeguards? What will ultimately strengthen the confidence of the population? – Through stable public services. A very important point is health, education and social security. These are elements that ensure this confidence on the part of the population, also on the part of the youth, which in the end will have to continue to pay attention to this debt mountain and this trust. One thing is certainly indispensable: The real economy needs to get back to the focus of development. “Middle of development” means research exactly where it is laborious, research and development means a lot of risk with new strategies, with courage for new solutions. Finally, on tax justice, my colleague has already referred to her. Without the contribution of those sectors, those social groups that have clearly benefited more over the last 20 years than the others, namely foundations, – under the lead marks – “Superrich”, also corporations and very large companies, it will not be possible. These must again contribute more to research, development and the general good. In the core of the climate and energy crisis, since – I have to say – I miss an essential input into the budget accompanying legislation, namely a novel of the eco electricity law. It would have been a wise decision of the government groups if they had said: Yes, in the crisis, we also need to show leadership. We need to show that the future strategies are feasible, they are designable. – Unfortunately, an eco electricity law has not been adopted, the energy transition is perceptive, and investment in the regions is unfortunately not being carried out. Finally, as far as the EU is concerned: There is a huge amount of reform. Forward Europe! Forward Green to more democracy, to Parliament's co-decision! And the Greens will fight for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27236	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27257	Mr President. Dear, a little solsical Mr. Hahn! Ladies and gentlemen, who remain here in the hall! I would like to say a few words about non-existent cultural policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] First of all, I would like to say here in this plenary that I am very pleased that the next intentionant of the Salzburg Festival will be called Alexander Pereira. In the last few days, it has looked as if Stéphane Lissner would be, that is, just that man who has robbed the Vienna Festival Weeks – together with Luc Bondy – of their own profile and also managed them off. That is why I am of course pleased that now a specialist is coming, a specialist who has already proved in Zurich that he can also handle money very well, and that, most importantly, he has recognized the importance of the Salzburg Festival and will therefore certainly not make it an experimental stage. – That’s a positive thing once. Otherwise, I have to say, your cultural policy is rather a cause for mourning – only if you look at what is happening at the ORF. [[Call the FPÖ:A drama!]] - Right, that's really a drama. The cultural mission of the ORF – which is enshrined in the law – is quite easy to step with feet; no person cares about it. The Minister of Culture would have to dream every day and, together with the relevant persons – in this case, the Federal Chancellor and the Secretary of State for the Media – would have to ensure that the ORF's cultural mission is implemented very well. [[Abg. Großruck: “Dancing Stars”!]] But what is the case? – The main evening program is “filled up” with cheap American series. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, it is true that many people are very much culturally interested – and ATV has recognized this market gap and has now set up a cultural programme. This will be the best evening programme time to show what interests those Austrians who like to watch culture on television. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it's also a shame that you didn't take care of the radio symphony orchestra. It's incredible. One of the best orchestras in the world is simply to be dissolved. As you all know, I have made this every time I have put forward proposals, but the Minister for Culture has not found it worth the effort to oppose. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have often mentioned musical training. The musical training of youth was once pointed, is now also a tragedy. I'm going to comment in detail next week. We also need to work out an action plan and do something together with the countries in order to finally abandon this manko. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will address the problem of museums and the Bundestheater next week. - I see the red light is shining here. Only one thing would be important to me: A crisis can also be a chance. And especially in cultural policy, there is a lot to be done. We from the FPÖ are apparently the only ones who are aware that we can live and also draw self-confidence from our great cultural heritage. And it's our duty – I'd almost say our damn duty! – that we pass this on to next generations without harm. [[Abg. Großruck: You are an exception, Mrs. Colleague – a praiseful one!]] That's why, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: We liberals will do everything we can to remain active in this respect.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27351	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. I would point out that the remainder of the group is one minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27374	Mr President. Estimated, valued members of the Federal Government! High house! To this Federal Financial Framework Act and the Federal Financial Law. They are, as it were, drawn by budget overruns and back-up solutions. [[Call the ÖVP: That's where you know yourself!]] It's like a red thread. No one knows where the trip is going. It's all at this double budget somehow, like coffee study or light-seeing. The same thing the Austrian economic experts have done in recent months continues to do here. I would definitely have expected some reforms in this budget, where we could have undertaken a reform of administration, a reform of the state, but all this is not done. The social security institutions could have been put together. Instead, one pours out a billion for the cash recovery. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] AUVA speculates one third of its total assets on the stock exchange in highly risky invested securities. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] Well, that's crazy how it's going to be! That's €92 million, which was placed on one side in the sand, and on the other hand, it's worth €100 million.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27426	Please, let's finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27441	Mr President, I come to the conclusion. In the future, we must definitely come to a tax system in which the labour force is not the last link in the chain.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27468	Next, Mr Brosz. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27490	Mr President. At the beginning, I would like to say a little bit at the end of the debate, because, I believe, it is quite unsatisfactory for all that we are discussing de facto almost all day long. [[Abg. Großruck: The urgent inquiry brought this!]] We can continue this in the “Agriculture” chapter. The problem is that the budget debate, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, is probably not easy to carry out: First reading, general debate. I notice this for the eighth time now, there have always been calls to structure a little different. I believe that we all have more of it together if we could debate first thematically related and second the ministers would be present if they were dealt with in the corresponding chapter. [[Abg. Grosz: Ministers are kicking!]] And if the Rules of Procedure are difficult to interpret or redesign, it would be at least an attempt by the political groups to understand the order in which the budget is discussed to get a little bit of a structure into the debate. In so far as my appeal for the next week is so that in the chapters, at least the rounds of speakers are designed to allow the individual departments in which several chapters are included to say something to the respective chapters, because it could make a little more sense and structure in this debate. So, as we have done so far, it is not a satisfying discussion for us, nor for the people who listen. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Now we are continuing this “crew and beet debate” as it should be. I would like to say a few words on the subject of media, because that should be addressed. In this budget there are things that are not present. You don't always talk about what's inside, but also about what's not inside. A chapter has long been the question of how to deal with the exemption from fees at the ORF and with the refunding. We have had a long debate, which, I believe, has not come, even in the coalition talks. We know that, in the current economic situation, the ORF is in a very difficult situation and that there is a loss of revenue, which actually has nothing to do with the core task of the ORF, but with a social policy measure, namely, that social Weaknesses do not have to pay any fees for which the ORF has to pay from its own resources. There's something done faster, because that's also part of the problem. On the other hand, as far as the media chapter is concerned, there are already things for which there is money where one might actually believe, there is no longer at all. Let's look at press promotion! One would not believe what the focus of the press promotion is on. Very many newspapers in Austria do not receive any press promotion; they are currently in about €7 million, which are distributed for it. A total of €2.3 million, i.e. a third, go to two daily newspapers. If you ask now whether anyone has ever seen them, the number of them will probably be relatively small, I suppose. These are two party newspapers. €1.2 million goes to the “Kärntner Zeitung”, which is located in the red segment. Of course, there must be an equivalent for this, because it is not possible that only a red party newspaper gets something. That is why there is €1.1 million for the “New Volksblatt” in Upper Austria. [[Abg. Großruck: (a copy of this paper) The truth!]] - Yeah, that's inside. Great! Party newspapers – for this we have money, for the party newspapers of the ÖVP and for the party newspapers of the SPÖ, for that there is money. For the private media in this country – which was an absurd order – 5 million € have been budgeted. As a support for private TV and private radio, €5 million is available. Half of these are addressed to two private-party newspapers in an order of magnitude that is negligible because they seem to be promoting structures, which is nothing but indirect party funding. We can already think about whether this is really the case with the crisis and the few resources that exist. There the money appears to be available. You should think about it and say: If difficulties arise, then it is not about the fact that parties – the colleague Grossruck writes eagerly into his paper – can finance their own party newspapers, but about the fact that independent reporting – good news by the way: “independent reporting” if you think about the ORF debate – is promoted and not the last remaining dinosaur media that had to survive economically in the party area. Otherwise, you always said the “Prawda”; when it comes to the ÖVP, it’s great. [[Abg. Großruck: “Truth” means that!]] – Yes, exactly, “Oberösterreich-Prawda”. Everything else went in anyway. So: A little bit of independence would be possible for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27585	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27607	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I too have to come back to the plenary yesterday, because Chancellor Faymann told you and me quite unsuspectingly and with an accusation of a pregnant voice: “Even Susanne Winter has read a book.” – I have to say: I am very proud that I can read books in my free time too! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Was it “The Treasure in the Silver Sea ”?]] I mean, it throws a very strange light on a German chancellor, when he on the one hand repeatedly claims that the future of our country takes on a positive development through research and education, but on the other hand, he suddenly has a big problem with reading books! Federal Chancellor Faymann probably adheres to the proverb: Whoever makes a trip can tell something. . I mean a very special journey of our Federal Chancellor, whom he unfortunately told us nothing about. I think that this knowledge might have been beneficial to our budget, because we then know what is being discussed in these elite circles. A budget was presented entitled “A Battle Plan Against the Crisis”. In reality, however, it is the administration of a beautiful misery. Wherever one listens, in this Federal Government it is always said that there is distribution justice in Austria. – I have to say that here the relation to reality is simply not given, because through globalisation – and you were absolutely for that! – the income shears have continued to disperse: Poor is getting poorer, rich is getting richer! However, nothing is done by the Federal Government. On the contrary: One simply tries to put this to death with minimal measures. I have already mentioned distribution justice. Basel II would be very important for our economy if the criteria were to be softened. Furthermore, I would like to point out that our Federal Government is always so proud that 2.7 million people in Austria do not pay income and wages tax. – I would say: If these people had more income, they would certainly like to pay their obolus in the tax pot. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's great!]] My last sentence is Mrs Mag. Gisela Worm. She's got herself in the morning – and I'm very proud of her! – expressed for the emergency apartments. For the explanation: These emergency homes are for women who are fleeing from forced marriage or forced marriage and who also want to avoid other cruel measures. I'm proud of you, Mrs Mag. Worm that it is possible today that They say that there are these horrors and forced ewes in Austria at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27673	Next speaker: Mr Vock. His speaking time from 3 minutes was reduced to 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27701	High house! We Liberals say yes to higher expenditure where one can boost the economy. I am thinking here, for example, of the urgent reorganisation in the House. As a building speaker, I had the honour of being there at the time during the attic, and I was surprised when I saw Baueimer there, with which the water is collected under the roof like in a bad comic film! Exactly one of these builders can be seen from here, it shimmers through the glass roof! – I mean, it is simply not acceptable to the dignity of this House that such builders should be set up! In addition, I would like to thank the house workers who climb on this dangerous glass roof when rain comes to empty the builders regularly. Respect for the house workers! I've done it for the last time – and therefore I can spare myself today to go into exactly the same thing – that the €250 million we take away from the BIG and give to the teachers cost 1 billion at the end of the year in revenue: We lose savings in the unemployment rate, we lose more income in wage and social security, and we risk 20 000 jobs in the construction industry, only so that teachers can keep their two hours. As construction spokesman of the FPÖ, I would have liked to see at least those measures that the government of the construction industry promised in the previous year.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27734	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27766	Mr President. High house! Today we have a general debate on the budget for 2009 and 2010, and in this generalistic approach I would also like to look at the budget. You can now call this quiet “freely holding ”! This is the result of a certain degree of group strength, which is not about to come from. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is a unique feature of such debates that the government groups praise the budget and that it criticizes the opposition. That's quite clear. A hen's playing when she lays an egg. That's natural. I can also follow Mr Auer's statement when he says he will have heard everything 26 times at the end of these weeks. I believe him! On the other hand, this is a parliament and not a maker. The other would be the Federal Government, and I think you should distinguish between these two institutions! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Krainer may have overlooked that the opposition is not only criticizing. It can, however, look at our numerous proposals, proposals and the like in Parliament's records. Then he will see that we not only practice criticism, but also make constructive proposals! By the way, we hear enough praise from the government group. We have heard many thanks to the head of the section today, for example to the Federal Government, to the Minister of Finance. Mr Auer and Mr Stöger were also thanked. I have to say that the ÖVP actually made a right class trip to Maria-Danksagung! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] As a Member of Parliament, he had the honour of starting with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] That's how it is, yes! Members of the Wöginger have presented us with the ÖVP as the big family and social party, including the Kindergarten chapter. – As an Upper Austrian MP, I recall that our Helga Moser has been proposing for years or almost decades that the last kindergarten year should be free so that language deficits can be reduced. Today in January, however, the head of state came, fittingly at the time, and said: Well, then we'll make the free kindergarten! And in the covenant we followed accordingly. If it hadn't been January, I'd have said, That really fits, a little more powder snow instead of constituency mow, in this case the Upper Austrian! But politics should not only be social, as we have heard, but it is also there for workers and for health insurance companies. The great performance of the health insurance companies was, as it was illustrated, the water balance between the two full, a few half-empty and a few empty bubblings or at least an empty bubbling. – If this is the great performance, I have to say: That also makes a house servant somehow! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There were then immediately a few ÖVP delegates against this matter. But it was not all the Upper Austrian Members, but it was only a part of it. Perhaps they have not yet been fully coordinated. Perhaps in the ÖVP we should be careful to ensure that all the national parties are actually coordinated with the Federal Party. It is clear that this is not just the case with the EIA. We sometimes see this at SPÖ. Mr. Katzian is looking down. The trade unions GPA and Vida have collected corresponding signatures in April. I think the social billions are very positive! She doesn't really find herself. Perhaps it would be good if you could bring even more trade unionists to the government! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] Perfect! I'm already excited about what you're going to tell me! I'm always excited about it. I'll get you together. We have heard a lot about what the government is doing for security, education and social affairs. We have already criticized education, including CERN, where there has now been another crash. Moreover, we have already criticised the security deficits today, and in social terms it is the same. If you say that the government is a reliable partner of the population, I would like to draw attention to the fact that "trustworthy" is also a bit related to "left". However, if you look at the election movements, we are not left. The voters come to us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27874	The next item is the speech by Mr Herbert. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Mr Herbert is now present, then honourable Member Hoebart.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27912	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I should like to return to the speech that Mr Krainer has made on this budget this morning. In the case of this one, he made the statement that Black-Blue is responsible for the fact that there are today a thousand police officers less in Vienna. I would like to reject this and say: Not the FPÖ members at the time are guilty of the fact that the Vienna police have been involved in this human resource abuse today, but it has been the security police misevaluations of the ÖVP ministers, starting with Strasser to Fekter, who have initiated these negative spirals. The reason for this was undoubtedly the improper police reform under the then Minister of the Interior of Strasser. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Strasser has set something in motion, which may have been well meant, but unfortunately the very opposite has resulted! At that time, those fundamental mistakes were made and misevaluations were made, which today are mainly due to the Vienna police. In particular, there was a fatal misconception that Vienna should not be treated differently from the remaining eight federal states. However, Vienna is to be treated as a large agglomeration centre in an organisational way different from the other eight federal states. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Watch out!. Those who are careful are clearly in favour, Mr Cot. Vienna is to be treated as a large organisational and not comparable agglomeration centre; rural structures can in no way be grasped here in terms of police work! The geographical size of Vienna alone, the fact of the large number of criminal offences indicated – I can remind you that more than 40 per cent of all criminal acts committed throughout Austria are displayed in Vienna – and the number of large-scale events or sponsoring campaigns would have required the granting of a special position in police terms and in particular a corresponding personal assessment. Unfortunately, it is not in the budget for the next two years, which is probably not really helpful for a quick solution! I should therefore like to say once again: This misevaluation of the police structure in Vienna is the fact that we are particularly affected today. One cannot organize Vienna like a district police command in the rural area. That would actually be an approach for the present Minister of the Interior Fekter, her position new to rethink! No one is hurt to gain new insights and become smart out of mistakes!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27972	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Höbart. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e27993	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We're heading towards the final of today's day. However, we still want to place a few words in the direction of the double budget here. The government praises the double budget high and holy. Mr. Vice-Chancellor sees delicate plants of economic growth on the horizon. But what does reality really look like? The fact is, we're in a deep recession. We complain of export declines which increase and increase unemployment. Conclusion: The revenue is falling and expenditure is rising. Assigned: Of course, it is not possible at the moment, or very little else, to make a budget to this extent, because, as mentioned, revenue is falling and expenditure is increasing. We are missing a certain budget path, a view, a vision where the journey leads at the end of the day. What do the strategies look like? – I would now like to bring a quote from our parade economist Professor Streissler, who says: “Generally, the budget path is marked by an extremely short-term view. Investments for future growth are too short.” – Streissler says about this. And in the end it's fixed for us: There is no clear margin of the budget. In fact, it is not expansive, that is, the economic-invigorating measures are too short, nor is it restrictive. So one can rightly say that it is neither meat nor fish, nor fish, nor meat, no matter how you want to see it. Our approaches in this environment are clear: We demand a discharge from citizens, at least no new taxes. We're for more power incentives. I would like to say a word here: Family tax division to ultimately force the future. This costs a little more on the one hand at the beginning, but it brings a lot in the medium and long term. We are in favour of finally tackling savings potential. Professor Van der Bellen has already mentioned the state and administrative reform. You only have to do this right once and with strength, because potentials are sure to exist. We also need to combat tax fraud. I'm sure there's a billion broken down here. Finally, I would like to bring a reim of Wolf Martin from 1994. Now listen carefully, this is certainly for the rounding of today, especially with regard to this unscrupulous urgent request of the Greens. Martin says the following – quote –: The left do not rarely demonstrate. It has to be considered right and cheap. But if, as in these days, rights on the streets, democratic, peaceful and legal, One is talking about scandal, because one’s overall right-wing’, it seems, as Nazis already damned. And of course it can't be, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28074	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28095	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pack said today that our apprentices had no quality problem. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - Right! Nevertheless, a few words will still be allowed! Mr Pack said that the apprentices in Austria have no quality problem. – That’s right, that’s right! The apprentices have no quality problem. But there is another problem: We have jobseekers who unfortunately do not find a teaching place. And this is also the criticism of the Freedom Party: that, although there is a lot of training guarantee and the like, nothing is happening in de facto. I believe that it is clear to all of us that 70 percent of the apprenticeships are guaranteed by our small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we liberals also clearly believe that there must be a heavy weight in the promotion. Over-company training centres, which are now being promoted and where there are more jobs, are quite right. Nevertheless, I repeat: Quality is ensured in the establishments. Over-company training centres can really only be a catch-up network to get young people off the road and ensure a minimum level of training. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we Liberals also clearly repeat our demands, which I have made not only today, but also often: Re-introduction of the "Blum-Bonus" as a non-bureaucratic measure also for our small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Hear: Eternal Yesterdays!]] – That is not “everlasting” – that was very efficient, Mr Deputies! You can't deny that! It is precisely your group's support that needs to be given. The small ones and the middles wish for that too! To reintroduce the apprentice: This too is an issue that comes back again and again, in terms of which de facto does not happen! The government has meant that it no longer needs it in times of crisis. I think that the apprentice would have enough tasks and enough opportunities to act meaningfully! Another point also concerns an initiative by the Freeman and our President Graf: We clearly demand more teaching in the public sector. In this context, our communities – there are still enough mayors here today – are also required to take up more apprentices. We can not only demand this from the companies, but also have to bring something in as politicians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One last point, time is not enough for more. To the area of national defence. Mr Minister, we have already said a lot about this area, and we will have the opportunity to say something about it next week. Today we have heard a lot about this. This is what the honourable Member, for example, meant here today, and we have to sit down after the crisis. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to put ourselves together, because there is a result of the Federal Force Reform Commission, and we just have to implement it. After even Dr. Moser gave more money to the German army today, I think that must be possible. Next week in the debate on this, we will have the opportunity to implement it with an amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28153	The next item is the speech by Mr Lausch. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28174	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! The Federal Government must be pleased that the experts and the opposition are right: The budget figures are not in the back and in the front! [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] The Federal Government has at all a slope to strange figures. I just remember the government programme. The Federal Government has already promised – several ministers also in the media – that more than 1,000 police officers! [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: They're coming!]] Sure they're coming, yeah, but not in the next two years. Not at all! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller.]] But I can also tell you exactly why not. I agree with Mr Gessl-Ranftl's comments from the SPÖ, who said that they were missing in Leoben. But they're not just missing there. For years black interior ministers have been starving – that is your responsibility, that is, your people have been and are still – at the Lower Austrian East border, in the wine district, the border police inspections are systematically out. I have a few figures on this. I visited these inspections there. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller.]] You scream, and I visited the inspections there. I'd like to give you a few numbers from there. Kleinhaugsdorf, Mitterretzbach, Hollabrun District, has a total of two border police departments, 74 planning posts and 31.5 civil servants. They're down to 60 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: I don't know what they're demanding!]] Calculate it! I don't know what to discuss now. These figures are true – in contrast to your numbers that do not vote. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller.]] Drasenhofen District of Mistelbach: 54 Offices, 35 civil servants. - And that's how it goes. Dried: 40 Offices, 10 officials on duty. – 70 percent under-retirement. Marchegg, not a border police station, but a PI: 69 Offices, 35 civil servants. – 50 percent under-occupied. [[Further call of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller.]] Calculate it! Visit her once! That is, in the wine district alone, 100 officials are missing on the eastern border with the Czech Republic! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It just can't be discussed away, you can't deny that. I don't know why there's excitement. In view of this, I already understand the example of the Federal Government, because if everywhere, as in Leoben, the planning sites are not disintegrated, then one can take these planning points and move to Vienna, and then one suddenly has more in Vienna at 1,000. That's actually air and trust, that's a fraud against the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They therefore burden the population of the border region. People have already been eaten there. You'll see that on every election outcome. Then: People don't feel safe there anymore. But if you count as the Federal Government, then you come to such budget figures as we have. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28271	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28292	We have been discussing for a very long time now, on 21 and 22. In April we discussed, then yesterday in the committees, and here again today, and next week we will continue to discuss. However, the government is not prepared to change only one example. There are still as good proposals as yesterday from my comrade Norbert Hofer, for example, on the approximation of the deductibility of people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The three basic elements of a state are safety, health and infrastructure. The safety of the population is not as secure as it should be. We also see this without looking at the security statistics. The health, the highest good of the human being, is increasingly restricted in the care sector, for example by the self-cost contribution in the event of a sick stay. In the area of infrastructure is saved. There are fewer and fewer ÖBB trains, especially in rural areas. The directors are getting more and more, but the other staff are being saved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then we are still to be told that it is so good in the EU that without the EU, we would not be able to overcome this crisis so well. I'm telling you, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen: The EU, with its globalization will, is very much indebted to it. This EU is no matter what people do. The FPÖ is not a matter of people and our country! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28339	Next, Mr Mayerhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28360	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! The present internal budget is not suitable to meet the requirements and is not an answer to the current security situation. This you can turn and turn as you like, because in the security area is so fire on the roof that conventional measures in Weitem are no longer sufficient to eliminate the current security emergency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] - Yeah, just watch out! You'll be glad if you come home today and see that you haven't been broken into your hotel. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Their measures have not yet been met in the case of Weitem. There are conditions in this country that seek their like. The population faces a wave of crime and expects solutions immediately! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The citizen, who is burdened with the highest tax burden, is obviously not allowed to expect a return. On the contrary: He is expected to be with dogs – earlier it has made a dog dog, now we need Rottweiler and Wolfshunde. Now we need safe instead of wooden doors. Now we need cages so that we can protect ourselves from the burglars who welcome you and are particularly supported by the Greens. That's how it looks! That's the truth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then citizens are still harassed with statistics that do not vote in the back and front. Now, the most uninterested Austrian already insists that they do not vote – and the Minister announces scientific counting. That'll be interesting! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should also like to give you a small indication of the education rate. Let yourself be told by a police officer who is still in service – 25 percent, I go to another day and can therefore report on the crime scene, and let me tell the colleagues their concerns –: If politics does not soon decide to stand behind the police, they will soon, because they can no longer do otherwise, only do more service according to regulation, because they have to protect themselves, especially from the illegal attacks of the Greens and a soft Minister of the Interior, who always goes on the glue to the left. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I would also like to mention the following: The police are also on their way with scrap cars. [[Abg. Ing. Chapel: That's not true at all!]] The police who leave with a scrap car, with a tired strip truck, are supposed to punish poor citizens because they have claimed to have committed any offences. That's crazy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then you can also watch for many years how despotic superiors how Mr Horngacher can develop their drive, so that you have to get on the head when talking to the officials at the Schottenring and the Ministry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I would like to remind you how much we were right. It has a poster in Vienna called "Vienna must not be Chicago". – After that the scream started in Vienna! I remember that very well. But what's going on now? – Vienna must become Chicago to make it safer at last! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The prophecies voted as they did in our brochures in popular desire “Austria first. ” At that time we formulated the prophecies much too mild. They have become much more angry. And now you have every reason to believe these prophecies at last. Otherwise, if you come home today, I would like you to find unbroken apartments. I wish you'd come home with your handbags. Nice weekend!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28471	Mrs Mühlberghuber's next speech. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28492	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, Every mother and woman should decide for herself when and if she returns to work after the birth of her child. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am now particularly addressing those mothers who choose to raise their child themselves. They all know that the most important years for the development of a infant are the first three years of life – and the mother is the most important reference person. I've never seen a father breast-feeding his child. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This valuable work of a mother and a housewife must be upgraded, both in terms of financial and in terms of reputation. The well-being of our children must be of value to us; family care must be strengthened. We want independence and freedom of choice for our families instead of government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Up to €2 300 per year and child – up to the tenth year of a child’s life – can be asserted for the first time with the employee’s charge in 2009. This also applies to the care of a child by its grandparents, provided that they do not live in the common household with parents and children and that they have a minimum of eight hours of training. For many families, the care network of grandparents is an essential part of caring for their children. Ladies and gentlemen, this sounds pretty good and beautiful, but: Grandparents who have raised children themselves must have a training so that the care can be applied for tax! That's incredible! Such a thing can only happen to someone who doesn't understand about child care and child rearing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28553	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I am now interrupting the session until Tuesday, 26th. May 2009, 9 a.m. Following the resumption of the negotiations, the topics of the Supreme Institutions and the Federal Chancellery will continue. The sitting was suspended. [[21:12:45]] [[The meeting will be held on Wednesday, 20. May 2009, February 21, 2009 and Tuesday, May 26, 2009. On 9 May 2009, continued at 9 a.m.]] [[09:00:14]] Continued the meeting: Tuesday, 26. May 2009, 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28618	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll take the interrupted 23. National Council meeting again. On today's day, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Haberzetl, Schönpass, Jakob Auer, Praßl and Dr. Moser. We continue with the budget consultation. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28654	For today's session day, a block-time of 9 'Vienna hours' was decided, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP per 122 minutes, FPÖ 108 minutes as well as BZÖ and greens per 95 minutes. Each department is first spoken per and counter. Before entering the next debate, all speakers who have been mentioned in this part of the debate will speak. I recall that according to § 57 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure shall not be used. The term of office of the member of the government responsible, which exceeds 20 minutes, or the speaking time of the competent State Secretary, which exceeds 10 minutes, shall be counted on the speaking time of the respective government group. The speaking time of non-governmental government members or State Secretarys is at least counted on the speaking time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the speaking time of Mr Vice-Chancellor in today's debate on the topics of "Top Institutions" and "Bundeskanzleramt" is provided that the speaking time does not exceed 10 minutes. [[09:01:52]] Top organs UG 01: Presidential Chancellery UG 02: Federal legislation UG 03: Constitutional Court UG 04: Administrative Court UG 05: Public Prosecutor's Office UG 06: Court of Auditors Federal Chancellery UG 10: Federal Chancellery, Women
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28734	The Federal Chancellor's Office and the Federal Chancellor's Office are to be consulted. All this was already done on Wednesday on the first part of the 23. Debates of the European Parliament We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stefan. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28770	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen – I just wanted to say – on the government bank; now only the Secretary of State is here! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget also shows no desire to design in this area. It is a pure continuation of what we have had so far. And that's the great disappointment! No innovations are planned. You're going to be safe and you're just going on with what's already in place. There are major approaches to administrative reform in particular. I would just like to mention a few points that should be discussed and that would improve the system. We have seen in recent years that, in most cases, additional administrative authorities have been created that have complicated the whole situation. There are now about 70 commissions and authorities in countries and federal governments to express it untechnically. This condition is very opaque for the citizen. He no longer knows who he can turn to, how the procedure goes, which competence exists with the individual Commission, with the national administration courts – or whatever these things are called. There has been a situation that is very unsatisfactory. It would therefore be very targeting to combine these competences and to create a Federal Administrative Court which takes principle decisions, and in addition to national administrative courts, which then have the full competence in administrative matters – namely the Federal and the Länder! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] There should then only be a Court of Justice in the countries and not this wild growth and this inconsistency. The citizens then knew where they could go; then there was a point of contact. And you could also estimate how long procedures take. One would have an idea of what the movement of an instance is; it would also be understandable to the ordinary citizen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This competence would also mean strengthening the countries and simplifying the administration. Shorter procedures and increased legal certainty would be expected, because then true courts would decide on the administrative acts and this would be an improvement. In addition, the administrative court would be relieved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, a problem would also be solved, namely the so-called asylum court. We imagine that there should be an exclusive competence for foreign law proceedings at the “Fremdenrechtsgerichtshof”, as one would probably call it, which then decides at the last instance. This would mean that there is no longer any appeal from the Asylum Court or from the “Foreign Court” to the Constitutional Court. Firstly, it is system-absorbing that there are two instances for administrative acts, and secondly, we have found that the Constitutional Court is currently overburdened by the instance of the Asylum Court. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This could be an essential point, which the Minister of the Interior has repeatedly referred to, namely a reduction in procedures, which would be very important, in the asylum process, and we would have a final competence. Furthermore, to the Constitutional Court: We note that there is currently a procedural period of about eight months in the Constitutional Court. This means an improvement in recent years, and it is not bad in international comparison. Nevertheless, it is essential to try to comply with a procedure of no more than six months. § 73 AVG also makes it quite clear that requests from citizens in administrative matters must be decided within six months. It is therefore very unsatisfying that even this period of procedure cannot be observed in the instance. All efforts should therefore necessarily be made to reduce this period of procedure in the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Three points would be essential to this. One thing is: There are indeed too few planning positions, especially for permanent speakers in the Constitutional Court. Secondly, we should rethink the system of sessions. I am convinced that there could be a significant acceleration of the proceedings if the Constitutional Court was to meet constantly. It would also be necessary for the Constitutional Courts not to be a secondary profession, but to act primarily on a professional basis. This could also give rise to a process acceleration. Thirdly, a discharge by a “foreign court” would make sense, which would allow these large number of proceedings from the asylum court to go to the Constitutional Court. At the end of 2008, there were 2 200 open proceedings at the Constitutional Court. This is a state that is very unsatisfactory. And it is to be expected that this situation will be worsened, especially by the removal of the asylum court, resulting in a congestion. The above measures should be taken to improve citizens' rights in this area as well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It should also be mentioned that it would be necessary to create an opportunity to call a President in advance, especially if he, who is in a particularly sensitive situation, can either get involved in political statements or act politically. That should not be possible! If a President of the Constitutional Court acts in this way, then there should be the possibility of early withdrawal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the subject of control – this has always been a major concern of the FPÖ –: There are these two essential bodies, the Court of Auditors and the People's Procuratorate. In connection with the Public Prosecutor's Office, it should be noted that a number of commissions and appeals were created there too. There is the patient attorney's office, there are lawyers, the care attorney's office, the disabled's attorney's office. There is also such a large number of institutions in this area that the citizen no longer sees where he can turn. It would therefore be very important to pool all of this in the public prosecutor's office, because then the citizen knew exactly where he could go and would have greater security on the way to his right. It would also be very important for the public prosecutor's competence to be expanded. We know that there has been a very large number of outlays in recent years, namely, about 50. These exclusions then result in the public prosecutorship no longer being able to operate. The People's Procuratorate itself also complains regularly. We should take the step of harmonising the competence of the public prosecutor's office at least with that of the Court of Auditors, now in the first step, in order to create this possibility of complaint. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This pooling brought another advantage. It must be stated as a citizen again and again when one comes to such a Commission of Appeal and inquires that those who are supposed to represent the citizen are in reality guided or at least directly dependent on the authority. The People's Procuratorate would be a big step in this direction. The second point is the Court of Auditors. It is also to be said quite clearly that there would be a need to expand the competences here. This is essentially the following: Municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants should also be able to be examined. [[Abg. Großruck: They're being tested anyway!]] – They are only partially examined and at least not by the Court of Auditors! There is a great potential for savings right there. How big that is to be measured is always a bit problematic. The fact is, however, that it would be very important that the test competence be extended there too. There are, as I believe, 24 or 25 municipalities that have more than 20,000 inhabitants; all others are below them. The extension of test competence would therefore be a very big thing and also in the sense of the savings we are looking for in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors should have the opportunity to examine housing providers using public funds. The Court of Auditors should also have the opportunity to review companies receiving State support. In recent times, we have also had to observe, in connection with the bank rescue package and so on, that huge liability or direct grants are guaranteed without the State retaining the audit competence for these companies. And that should definitely be enforced. In the context of the exclusions, an improvement would be a test competence for companies with a share of the public sector of at least 25 percent. We know very well how many companies, although only formally, have a share of 25 percent of the federal government, yet are directly or indirectly under the direct influence of the federal government. In this area too, the Court of Auditors should have an audit competence. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So I'm saying, Unfortunately, this budget has not made any proposals for a reform of the administration alone in these areas. Nothing has been planned to extend these competences over the next two years. It is therefore a great disappointment for us as an opposition and especially as a FPÖ. We will express this with our voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28907	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28928	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Stefan, I see this a little different from what you have seen today. First of all, it must be noted that the establishment of the Asylum Court has succeeded in speeding up those procedures in the field of asylum that have landed at the Administrative Court. The administrative court has also been given considerable relief from this. I believe that this has been one of the most important reforms of recent years in order to bring about a discharge, especially in the case of the highest court. However, when we consider that there are still 377 cases at the Administrative Court which last longer than three years, we still need action there, as I believe. The discussion on the Convention revealed that there would probably be a very large and broad majority here in the House for a reform of the administrative courts. The introduction of national administrative courts is also part of the government programme. I believe that this is one of the most important steps in the reform of the administration. It is a two-in-a-kind administrative train, which then remains final with the national administrative courts, and a Federal Administrative Court, which ultimately has to take care of the uniform case law, but could also absorb all other specialist senatees. I am slightly different from you in this regard. I believe that in this Federal Administrative Court, all the agendas would have to be accommodated, according to the motto: nine Landesverwaltungsgerichtshofen and a Bundesverwaltungsgerichtshof, which then really includes all the agendas. I think it would also be reasonable to let the asylum court go up there so as not to create extra courts again. Of course, the introduction of the asylum court entailed an additional burden on the Constitutional Court. This budget, however, shows that this question has been raised very offensively. 19 new posts were created at the Constitutional Court by this budget, of which 15 lawyers were able to cope with this multi-attack, which was clearly created by the introduction of the Asylum Court. I believe that this issue has been dealt with very offensively and that the Constitutional Court has also been able to provide the necessary staff to continue to maintain this very, very good international standard, which the Constitutional Court has with us. I therefore believe that these measures, which are set out in the government programme with the introduction of national administrative courts, but also the offensive handling of staff to deal with the plurality of the Constitutional Court so as not to create a very good solution to the congestion that has arisen at the Administrative Court. I believe that the asylum court has shown in recent months that it has done a very good job and that this backpack, which has been given to it – to deal with these procedures – has been very well handled. I am particularly pleased that a lot has happened in the media sector and that the upper organs also include the media. I am particularly pleased that the film/TV agreement has been increased from € 7.5 million to € 13.5 million. This is the chance to continue promoting the local film. In recent months, we have seen how successful the local filmmakers are: on the one hand, with an "Oscar" and now with a "Golden Palm" in Cannes, and on the other hand, Haneke – who is by the way a Wiener Neustädter – has not won the first prize at these film festivals, but has already won several prizes and has now won the main prize. [[Oh-Rufe and congratulation at the SPÖ]] It was a film that was promoted by the film/TV agreement, so that you can see that the money is well established and that it is a business card out there. [[Abg. Brosz: And the criticism that it's too little, nobody hears!]] I am glad that this will be increased from €7.5 million to € 13.5 million. I think that's real, that's more than 40 percent increase. There is – as I believe – in no other area. In addition, a fund to promote private broadcasting of €5 million and a fund to promote non-commercial broadcasting of €1 million will be added. I mean, this money is really excellent, because Austria is known for its creative artists. This has proved to be particularly true in the film industry in recent months. I mean, you put the right emphasis on this budget. I also believe that the right measures have been taken with regard to the highest courts with regard to this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e28983	Mr Windholz. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e29010	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the ministerial bench! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Dear women People's lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! My predecessor, with regard to the Constitutional Court, felt that the additional staff, 19 more posts, would be enough. – I would like to strongly contradict that! Due to the jurisdiction in the asylum procedure since the second half of 2008, only the files have to be kept in mind. One third of all files – although only responsible in the second half – deal with such procedures, and I would say once that an overlong period of procedure is not really reasonable to anyone involved in the proceedings. With the additional 19 posts you have not taken any precautions, you have not provided adequate personnel at all, you have not achieved that an adequate period of procedure can be ensured. That's when you've been up to it, absolutely failed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have just discussed the issue of the Court of Auditors, in the last plenary session. Once again, I would like to express my thanks to the President of the Court of Auditors, to the entire staff in the Court of Auditors – it has always been a very impressive achievement. The Court of Auditors is sure that the waste of tax money will be found in the appropriate form and that proposals will also be made as to how to prevent tax money from being thrown out of the window in the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, this Federal Government fails again to promote an extension of the test competences. I can address the municipal examinations in this context. It is not to be seen that municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants cannot be tested. In view of the extensive banking package, it is high time that the Court of Auditors were granted audit competence here too. All in all, I think it is very beneficial to see the Court of Auditors as what it is, namely as a partner, to optimize its possibilities. I believe that it is not in the foreground that anyone needs to justify himself, but it is in the foreground that the future orientation is made positive and that the Court of Auditors is a partner in improving efficiency. Again: a warm thanks to the President of the Court of Auditors and to his team! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At the public prosecutor's office, we have a similar situation. In my opinion, there is also an extension of the test competence. I think it is also important to increase the access of all citizens to the public prosecutors. We currently have a certain East-West gap, i.e. it is much less used in the West; this, of course, is also related to the locality of the People's Procuratorate, with its establishment in Vienna, and also to the issue of generations: Who makes use of the People's Procuratorate? So we should be thinking about putting accents in the direction of the younger people. I think the ORF is extensible for other media – this would be an important access to keep people in mind, which is all possible in support at the public prosecutor's office. These thousands of cases bring one thing with them: to increase confidence in the Republic and thus also confidence in Parliament. I should like to express my express thanks to the lawyers who are very committed to the matter. The Administrative Court was put into play by my predecessor insofar as it is said: The postponement of asylum proceedings to the Constitutional Court constitutes a discharge for the Administrative Court. – You say that brings an increase in efficiency, but I do not believe that this is appropriate. And if you use the word “fears” in this context, that is also not true. What you achieve if you do not provide the necessary staff to the Constitutional Court is nothing but a shift in storage. We want rapid procedures, efficient procedures, and you have never achieved this with your staff increase! I can also turn to representation expenditure, which is, after all, unanticipated. As far as the People's Procuratorate and the Court of Auditors are concerned, these are really meagre amounts: Public Prosecutor's Office €4 000, Court of Auditors €15 000. We are already very generous about this in the presidency office of 1 300 000 €. €5 230,093 were spent in 2008 and €5 005 000 was planned for 2009. - We think that's too much. In times when you should save, you could set accents here as well. [[Abg. Grossruck: Say a number! How many does that fit?]] You could go ahead with a good example and say that it would be appropriate to halve these representation costs and thus set a good sign, although that would be too little. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the same way, the rewards are represented. In this respect, there are answers to questions that are no longer comprehensible at all. If you ask for the exact amounts, you get a total number. There's a lot going on in the ministerial offices! For the year 2008, we have a list of rewards, issues for ads, we know the consulting costs of the Federal Government and we know about the taxi costs in exorbitant amount. So I'll tell you: If you really want to do something, then make sure that the Constitutional Court receives enough staff so that there is no congestion there so that there are rapid procedures! Go ahead with good example! You can at least halve the amounts mentioned.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e29094	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head with a desired 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e29115	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Let me begin by referring to a comment from several previous speakers, namely the request for examination by the Court of Auditors of the municipalities of less than 20 000 inhabitants. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Very reasonable!]] In this demand, it is quite welcome to see that the municipalities of this order are already being examined by three bodies – at least in some federal states. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Nevertheless, so much is speculated!]] On the one hand, they have their own audit committees, on the other hand the audit department of the countries and the national accounting offices in some federal states. [[Abg. May. Kogler: These are speculation assistances and no tests!]] That despite everything, despite all the examination, there or there something can happen, nothing has to do with lack of examination, but these are finally and at last simply wrong decisions that are unfortunately made there or there and then lead to unloving developments. However, this is certainly not a control failure, which is why we are absolutely opposed to bringing in another fourth level and examining these best-tested communities once again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The budgets for 2009 and 2010 are naturally marked by the fight against the economic and financial crisis, not a question, but away – and this has already been discussed in detail in the general debate and will certainly be debated again in the individual chapters – and apart from these billions, there are also comparatively a few smaller positions in these budgets that I would like to draw your particular attention to, because they are existentially important for the respective areas. Mr Wittmann has already referred to one point, namely the promotion of television film. – In this budget, we managed to increase the TV film promotion fund by €6 million, which was absolutely positively commented on and assessed by the industry concerned. We raise the fund from € 7.5 million, as it has been taught so far, to € 13.5 million and thus strengthen the producer landscape and also the possibility of international co-productions, because one thing has to be clear to us: Film is – not only but very well – an important cultural asset, but also an economic asset. Film is a non-insignificant industry, has around 2 300 companies in its ranks, is very labour-intensive – it employs about 2,500 people directly and another 2 500 more indirectly – and is a growth industry. He has been able to triple his market share in recent times, and he has a broad added value. From suppliers to tourism, this has now become a very serious industry. So film is a serious economic issue. The Austrian film industry – which has already been addressed – is also highly successful. Ruzowitzky, Haneke has already been mentioned. That means, ladies and gentlemen: Film promotion is also an investment in a culture and economic sector to be taken seriously. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this context, there is also a serious word for those responsible in the ORF: We do not increase television film promotion so that the ORF can at the same time reduce its expenditure on its own productions, as has already been done in recent years and how the budgets of the next few years show up. That was not the intention of this budget increase. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, The promotion of the film with financial resources is also one of the tasks of the ORF. That is to say, the thoughtful or already advanced termination of the film/TV agreement is exactly the opposite of what we need. This would be a gross neglect of the public service contract of the ORF. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second priority in this budget chapter: Support for private broadcasting. Mr Wittmann has already mentioned this: If we – and we want it! – Wanting a diverse pluralistic media landscape, we need, of course, a fair competitive environment. On the one hand, we create this with advertising restrictions for the ORF for the benefit of the private, and on the other hand we do this with a fund with which we promote private commercial broadcasting operators and also support non-commercial radios with millions of amounts in the sense of the diversity of our media landscape. A third – very important for the press landscape also in the printing sector – is the current founding press board. For the first time, he too has received support, support from the budgets for 2009 and 2010 with €150 000, and also an important contribution to strengthening the media landscape and media diversity. Ladies and gentlemen! Film is a special cultural asset, free private media are a special feature of a pluralistic media landscape in a free society. They therefore deserve our special attention, both ideal and material, and that is why this budget is also a clear and clear signal to the media landscape, as well as to those who create culture, especially in the film industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e29221	It is now coming, Mr Magistrate. Kogler with a desired 8 minutes to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e29242	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mrs. Volksanwalts, Mr. Volksanwalt! I will begin the attempt to bring the Court of Auditors' role in the context of the forthcoming budget consolidation, because there will be no doubt that budgetary consolidation is in place. Those who consistently deny this by dreary silence are the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. There is a ban on discussion, or we cannot talk about how we will resolve the really great crisis of the coming years, after the current financial crisis and the crisis of the real economy, namely the budget crisis. The alleged economic party ÖVP has been silenced for this because the Voodoo virus has already been included in its high-priced considerations. The need to talk about how to take care later on, how to put up billions – not millions – or, vice versa – where they may need to be saved, so that the deficits and, above all, the debt and interest payments do not gallop, you refuse this insight. This is somehow not worthy of discussion, it is not discussive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] - We'll be right there. The only thing to hear from Mr. Vice-Chancellor is: You should not talk about it now, because this is poison to the economy! – Do you believe that it is not the far more dangerous poison if a Finance Minister stands up and is totally unbelievably either saying nothing or, if so, does it act as if nothing were?- Oh, my God! This is ten times more unbelievable and ten times more poison – but then also for the credibility of politics. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] The story is simple, but dramatic; You can work with me for a short example – I am referring only to the figures of the Federal Minister for Finance and his so-called strategy report, if he trusts in this for a long time, but please: 4 per cent to 5 per cent deficit in the coming years up to 2012! – But this is based on assumptions that were much more favourable than those that are now forecast, but be it. – This results from the debt level of 2008, approximately €180 million, expected away, until 2012, 2013 around a debt level of 250 billion. If we give in to the favourable forecast that we can continue to move on the market at 4 percent long-term interest rates, then the additional interest payments are in addition! – of €3 billion. [[Abg. Amon: What is your proposal?]] Now we have €7 billion, then we will have €10 billion. If this interest rate changes by only 1 percent, it is suddenly 12,5 billion €, i.e. more than 2,5 billion €. – That only that once the dimension becomes clear. This is what Mr Vice-Chancellor says, and at the end of the day it will all come to an end. [[Abg. Amon: What is your proposal?]] At the end of the day, it's going to be all right. – It will not go out, and the one who is now refusing the debate on it is the real objector! These people are actually the utopists, because that's not going to be the case. Whoever explains in addition that this is without revenue-based measures, I wish him a sincere “Toi, toi, toi!”, we propose this for a Nobel Prize, which we must first create, but probably something similar to Voodoo’s economy. How's that going? So we come to the Court of Auditors where we can now look at this. On the other hand, I say to you that this will not be done without additional taxes or tax increases, as you only need to calculate; They say this is happening – so we look at the expenditure side and the groundbreaking role of the ÖVP and all its national leaders in terms of administrative reform! There is at least a few hundred thousand or a few million euros where it is a question of making sensible savings, because there is a Njet. Where? – Of the heads of state; at least four There's still blacks. The great Njet comes from a completely overlaid federalism concept in this country. The complete Njet comes from a political folklore that is no longer to be held, which your people have to answer, and you know that very well; whether that is in the health care, whether it is in certain structural contexts such as in the urban water economy, where millions and millions of people are wasted per region, just because completely clumsy structures are not broken up. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Abg. Großruck: You don't know yourself at all!]] Who's responsible for that? [[Abg. Grandruck: I don't know!]] Who is responsible for this, Mr. Mayor? - We're still coming to the communities. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That is unbelievable from the front to the back! We Greens – we were asked for counter-proposals – say straight and clear, the whole will only be feasible if we turn on all the screws that are available to us. Yes, tax increases are inevitable. The question is: Where, then, is there still a load bearing possible that can be arranged according to the performance principle? That is why it is so important for us to start with the one that has recently been introduced into the debate under the heading ‘rich tax’, and quite rightly so for another reason: Everything else can They are also lulling into the hair, because social peace is at risk if these disparities in the question are even further apart. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then the following question arises: If you refuse to raise taxes, taxes and taxes, how do you even want to achieve expenditure on the part of the Commission? These are huge scrapping packages that you have to plan for, unless you are now inventing an administrative reform that brings €10 to €15 billion a year. - Well, that's what I'm looking at! You have to give an answer to this. If there is not even any movement in the smallest measures, because representatives of the ÖVP stand once again across the stable, then the unbelief is driven to the summit. We have this everywhere when it comes to municipalities, federal states et cetera. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Mr Klubobmann's head couldn't have celebrated it any better. He turns out here – we will now re-examination – and says that someone has already said that the Court of Auditors – the President himself wants to, perhaps he still takes a position on this – should also review those communities that have less than 20,000 inhabitants, and what this is stupid. [[Abg. Rädler: already tested three times!]] You know, the nonsense's somewhere else. He claims that there are three levels of testing in some federal states. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – What screams You're like that all the time?- Oh, my God! Listen to me. [[Abg. Wheeler: Because you don't work!]] I'll tell you. Now let's look at these test bodies: It may be that in Vorarlberg, everything works much better. I'm inclined to believe this; there's a lot different. But I can tell you how it is in the Styria: Three test levels, the control committee members are regularly overshadowed by what the municipal board does and celebrates. Hartberg or similar communities are a wonderful example of where entire garrisons of mayors do not even know how a balance-sheet looks but go on to speculate. [[Abg. Rädler: Say it! That's a cut-off!]] That's impossible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Drive!]] Then the members of the control committee come and are completely overwhelmed. Where was the Control Committee in Hartberg, huh? – On the other hand, only the Greens have acted. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pack and Mr Rädler.]] Next point, the district level, which is held and classified in some federal states, to take with it the municipal control: The level of the district is, for its part, completely overpowered, or with those to be checked, if something goes wrong, under a ceiling. There are also a whole range of examples, at least from the state of Styria. [[Abg. Grosz: Drive!]] The third level is the local authority of the countries. You know, they were wonderful! The mayor of Hartberg can still unpunishedly claim that he has agreed to all these stories with the local authorities, where first the municipal savings bank – by the way, much too little money – is knocked out and then the many millions who come anyway are distributed somewhere in four investment funds, in a way that appears everywhere a sensational deficit. [[Abg. Pack: No idea what you're talking about!]] You almost have the impression that they went into the teaching at BAWAG. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the BZÖ.]] That's how it looks. This is your “wonderful” control. And then you'll wake up if the Court of Auditors is to come and check? - That's completely absurd! The Court of Auditors would not go into every municipality – we do not have so many capacities at all! – but it is about the prophylactic effect and the fact that the Court of Auditors is examining those communities where certain key figures indicate – and he knows what he is doing, believe us! – there is already a presumption. [[Abg. Rädler: What do you have for ideas?]] This prophylactic effect is very, very wholesome, and they fear you like the devil the holy water, I know it already. That's what you're yelling at here. [[Abg. Rädler: Councillor!]] I don't understand at all: On the one hand, you take the President of the Court of Auditors into an administrative reform group of the Federal Government, on the other hand, you are hysterical when you talk about how you might be able to save something. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's where the blind one speaks of the color!]] I can tell you: Of course, we have dealt with dozens of examples in the Court of Auditors where something else could be done, of course. You don't need to blame us. But those who cross regularly are the representatives of the ÖVP and increasingly unfortunately also very often the SPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Thank God!]] That is the finding, and therefore you are totally unbelievable when you say an administrative reform will solve the future budget problems where it is €10 to 15 billion. I've never heard such nonsense before. Explain yourself instead of yelling at it! Come out and count on us! I wish you luck. I'd like to see that expected.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e29522	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Ostermayer. I would like to draw your attention once again: As Secretary of State, you have a speech time of 10 minutes. The speaking time over these 10 minutes would be counted on the SPÖ club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e29546	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! The budget, which is now being discussed, we have created in extremely unusual times. At the National Economic Meeting of the Austrian National Bank, which recently took place, an American professor asked, among other things, how we can actually predict developments of economies in this complex, extremely networked world where we live. It has been discussed whether in this complexity it is necessary not to re-construct, re-construct the models, and there, among other things, the comparison with the human brain and the developments and formations of synapses in the human brain has been drawn. [[Abg. Grosz: Be careful! We've already had this with the human brains!]] – Mr Grosz! You don't need to worry. I'm not talking about the brains of individuals here or elsewhere. I just wanted to point out one point because it was also discussed intensively, namely, whether some forecasts and assumptions are right, which I think are being expressed again and again and I would like to see this prospect and this self-confidence, which is sometimes spoken to. It is often performed with safeguards, for which many scientists do not have the appropriate basis in the current situation. Despite this difficult situation, we have also tried to make a budget in the narrower range we are talking about, which on the one hand is as economical as possible and, on the other hand, still sets individual accents that are considered important. One point is the question of administrative jurisdiction. You know, we are discussing various aspects in the consolidation working groups, where we can make savings in budget management or where we can become more efficient. – It is not only about savings, it is also about whether we can become more efficient. A law has recently been passed on the issue of efficient use of resources, namely the question of law enforcement officers in criminal proceedings. The issue of administrative court or reorganisation of administrative jurisdiction is also a question of improving efficiency. It is planned – I am saying that because that was already the subject in one of the previous speeches – that we are ready to go into consideration with a draft law by autumn. As provided for in the Intergovernmental Agreement, it is intended to be a two-institutional procedure. Regional administrative courts are to be set up to integrate the independent administrative Senate, so to speak, and a Federal Administrative Court of First Instance is to be set up, of course, with the intention of burdening the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court – in the case, of course, in particular, the Administrative Court. However, we have also put in place measures to reduce procedural time. Mr Wittmann has already pointed out that at the Administrative Court we have planned more than 10 planning posts and 19 planning posts at the Constitutional Court. This, of course, is also linked to the issue of asylum proceedings in the asylum court. There is thanks to both the head and the staff: The goals that have been set could – at least so far – be met. In July 2008, when the asylum court was installed, there was a stand-back of 23,600 cases. A quarter of these procedures could now be terminated and thus dismantled. By the end of 2010, at the beginning of 2011, the aim is to reduce this backpack. If this continues – and there is nothing that would contradict at the moment – this goal will also be achieved. The new procedures have also reduced more than half the number of employees in the period July 2008 to March 2009, and the approximately 2 100 Dublin procedures in progress – i.e. those relating to the question of competence within the EU – allowed the average period of procedure between 10 and 14 days, so they could be dealt with in a very streamlined procedure. So the creation of the asylum court has made sense. The quality of the proceedings is also obviously very good, because most of the proceedings that have been withdrawn from the Constitutional Court – in other words, where appeals to the Constitutional Court have been filed – have been confirmed by it. The Constitutional Court itself has introduced interim sessions, in addition to the four sessions that normally take place, in order to reduce the large number of procedures or not to increase them. Another priority set in the budget is media promotion. Both Mr Wittmann and Mr Klubobmann have already mentioned the subject. It was created – for the first time in Austria – for commercial but also for non-commercial broadcasters. There has, of course, been a discussion about the height, but especially in these times when we are currently in, one has to expect such discussions again and again. As in the government programme, money was provided to support the Press Council – of course, only if there is an agreement between the trade union and the Association of Austrian Newspapers VÖZ. In addition, as mentioned earlier, TV film promotion was increased by €6 million. Now you can say that €6 million is not that much. It was also discussed publicly that the Germans are currently creating a funding of €60 million. However, if one considers that the ratio of the economies of Austria and Germany is 1 : 10, then with this increase of €6 million we are exactly the proportion that the Germans have just defined. It is a nice coincidence that Austrian filmmakers also receive large prizes such as Michael Haneke or Stefan Ruzowitzky. Götz Spielmann managed to get to the last five with the film “Revanche”, but there were still many names of film makers who have been very successful lately. I would just like to make a few comments on a question that has been raised by the honourable Member's head, namely that the film/TV agreement cannot be announced in the same breath of the ORF: ==References== On April 1, the Foundation Council of the ORF decided that the ORF would have to be balanced by 2010. This is of course, if you look at how the development has been in recent years and, on the other hand, how economic development is at present – of course, all the media: Print media, private broadcasters and also the ORF meets – a very large undertaking and a very large task that the Board of Management has applied for. I think this is a very correct decision. I would just think that we should now comply with the rule that decisions should be made where they belong. Within the framework of the ORF Act, the Executive Board, the Executive Board and the Board of the Foundation are responsible for the supervision. If we confess to the independence of the ORF – and I think there is a great simplicity – then we should also leave the tasks where they belong. I therefore do not believe that it would be useful if, at the present stage, we were to inform the competent bodies of the ORF of what they should do and what they should not do. You have taken over the task of creating a balanced budget by 2010, and of course you have to perlustrate all fields and find out where savings can be made. If we then believe that there are certain areas that we have wanted to support in addition – beyond the legal framework – then what the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor said at the end of March should do about a partial refunding of the ORF fees that are missing due to fees. Now to make those calls, I don't think that's good. That there is a total commitment to promote the Austrian film – not only because it is now successful, but so that it will continue to be successful in the future – so that it will continue to be available in the future to support the economic aspect of the film industry – as Mr Klubobmann Kopf has said, I am fully involved. That was also the reason why we were able to picture – both in the government negotiations and now in the budget – that we wanted to support the Austrian film, and therefore increased the TV film promotion from € 7.5 million to € 13.5 million. If we take account of this assignment of aspects and responsibilities, I believe that we are doing something good for the ORF. What I also believe is that we should not limit revenue, because on the one hand, saving a lot of money – as it corresponds to the order – and on the other hand reducing revenue means filling up a backpack that no one can carry at the end. This does not only help the ORF, but if the economic base of the ORF is limited or even destroyed, then of course the independence is also gone, which is an unattainable but defensive good without an economically stable basis. I also believe that the assessment that if the advertising revenue of the ORF is limited, it does not benefit the Austrian media – at least because of all the investigations I know – does not apply. The effect is – and you can see that now – that the resources that the ORF does not take actually flow into the German advertising windows and thus not into an area where there is a great value added. Since I have received the reference to the speaking time, I come to an end. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e29616	Mr Pendl is now speaking. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e29637	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! High house! It is a long tradition – and it will probably always remain that way – which we know from the general debate: The same colleagues who complain of the debt call for more money in each budget chapter. How this should work, I leave your own ideas, ladies and gentlemen. However, I would like to say in general, Mr Kogler – now he is not here – at first: Criticism or the like, that's all right. We can exchange calmly. But I think that in front of the speaker's desk so to speak about the ladies and gentlemen mayors or municipal mandates, to say that they have no idea, we do not need that and, I believe, we all want to keep together. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in many areas of our state great is being done. Let me also say a warm thank you in the context of this budget debate, because, so to speak, it has been a cost factor for eternity, personally, but also on behalf of my group, to the public servants of this Republic and all the local authorities, because they are doing great things for the people of our home country, but also for the economic location. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] Legal certainty is important... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Otto “Thanks” Pendl!]] – I don’t forget – if you always forget to thank you, it’s your problem. However, I would also like to say that it is also a matter of dealing with each other, because behind the posts – in “New German” one speaks of “full employment equivalents” – there are people, ladies and gentlemen, and I believe that people, our fellow Members, deserve to also discuss reforms with them. I would, however, like to express my thanks to the President and to the Parliamentary Directorate, but also to all the clubs, because it is not a matter of course that we have our own budget – and I believe we have so much confidence here in the House – for Parliament itself. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank you!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Thank you!]] I believe that it is a good use that there have been very relevant discussions here, and, Madam President, thank you also for having a budget according to the difficult time, which allows the hort of democracy to be so modern and workable. The extension of the legal and legislative services is an important part of this structure. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank you!]] [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] I think one of the signals is that despite the difficult times, this Federal Government has presented excellent budgets for the next two years and has also formulated answers in the field of employment, including youth employment. Congratulations and thanks also for the fact that in autumn we will employ more apprentices than ever before – no self-evident! I think everyone was involved here, and there too we should not put our light under the umbrella, because this will be an important contribution, especially for young people who need a goal, a perspective. Parliament should also point out that it is not only calling for this in the debates here but also implementing it itself here. – Thank you for that! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is broad consensus here, too, that – let us wish it together! – at a manageable time after a conversion phase – because this hall will have to be rebuilt at some point – our Members will also find framework conditions in this room that meet the requirements of time. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Let us try to work together to ensure that the necessary conversion measures in our Parliament can be carried out quickly. I mean, not only should democracy be stressed in the debates here, but we should not forget humanity either. And we should never forget, in all the contributions to the debate, that we should not exceed certain limits. I wish us a common positive future here in the House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e29743	The next item is the speech by Mr Fichtenbauer. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e29765	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High Representatives of the Supreme Institutions! What Mr Pendl said is right, but not completely right. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank you!]] [[Abg. Grosz: It’s called “Thank you very much! ”]] First of all, I am very much in favour of the fact that we are implementing news of a structural nature here in Parliament, especially because of the catastrophic air conditions and the air conditioning inside it almost regularly. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are against it!]] [[Abg. Strache: Not against adaptations, but we do not need a luxury palace! That's where we save in the right place!]] Secondly, it is, of course, unacceptable for judicially sworn experts to find that there is a risk of fire that the roofs are insufficient. What we do not want is to build here a “Palazzo Protzo” in order to say it clearly. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But it doesn't matter, colleague, what you're saying. Next point: In the budget, we are talking about the "opportunity" structure of revenue without compromising the population. Note: We have a much too high tax, tax and tax burden anyway. Secondly, It is necessary to challenge the necessary issues of public expenditure. At this point you should also pay attention to smaller sums. It is known who does not honor the big man, the schilling is not worth it. That's what we've learned as children. The amendment, which is in preparation and will be submitted, provides for the amount of €4 154 000 in the Federal Chancellor's Office expenditure area. This is to be a separate EU campaign. These funds are to be used in the framework of an information project by the Federal Government. We think that this is completely unnecessary! This amount must be deleted, which must be saved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is not the slightest reason for this expensive money – in old currency more than 60 million schilling! – an information campaign on EU matters to be carried out. We can read enough about the interests of the EU every day in every Austrian daily newspaper – that is good and should be so. But if you look at the matter from the point of view of the opposition and take away the government incense, you have to ask: What's that supposed to be? And it is to be recognized that this is to be a pure propaganda action, which is intended to have the “loans” – under quotation marks – activity of the government on this point, and there we are against it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next point: It is very difficult to extract individual strings from the cloud of the overall context budget, but one is already important and remarkable: Today, in the early news, it was heard that German Chancellor Faymann has clearly demonstrated, contrary to the previous intentions we have heard from the government, that this assistance mission would end at the end of 2009, that this assistance will have to continue. This means that the Austrian military, which has worked as an assistant since the opening of the borders or since the fall of the wall, ad infinitum is intended for this task. This is a very clear measure of internal security with police aspects! This costs the army €30 million a year, and when we think about how close the military resources are anyway, that we have a flaw management in the area of the military, it is an aspect of unfairness to burden the army ad infinitum with this expenditure structure without any refunding. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have mentioned the same thing so far, of course, even without success, several times in connection with the foreign operations of the Austrian Federal Army, where there is a clear external dimension. The best example is Chad's use, which is out of dispute from the military quality and is excellent, but regardless of that, one may discuss it critically by the foreign policy measure per se. It is also necessary to discuss whether and to what extent budgetary expenditure to be allocated to the army from external policy concerns should be attributed to the army. In conclusion: I have, of course, also seen the television broadcast concerning the transmission of the “golden palm” and I would like to say, in the direction of the government bank, that the first thing the excellent director said was that the political side should be careful to put this feather itself on the hat. So, special applause doesn't come from this side. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e29887	Next, Mr Amon. 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e29909	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The honourable Member, Dr Fichtenbauer, has said a lot of truth, but of course not all that he has said here is true. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: The time was too short!]] That's it. For example, Dr. Fichtenbauer said that it would be incorrect to inform about Europe. – We believe that not a less political education is necessary, but a more, as not least the events of the last days and weeks show. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] The Chapter Top Institutions always offers a little opportunity to talk about the budget in general. I would like to do that, too, because it is interesting that a lot of criticism comes from the opposition – and it seems to her – but there are actually very few proposals for solutions. [[Abg. You don't listen to me, Mr. Colleague? There were proposals for solutions without end!]] Mr Strache, I listen very carefully, and that is why I can say that. [[Abg. That's exactly why it's wrong!]] Listen, Mr. Strache! The budget that we have presented to you has arisen at a time when – and this is quite undisputed, I think – we are experiencing an increasing crisis of the real economy after a dramatic financial crisis. This is expressed in declines in exports, which are relatively massive, expressed in an increase in unemployment rates, expressed in a large number of enterprises which are changing to short-time work. [[Abg. Strache: Why don't you do anything about it? Why don't you do something about it?]] The situation is dramatic enough, and that is why the budget is a proper approach. The budget has already contributed – and still does – to stabilizing the banks and the savings deposits, ladies and gentlemen. This is a correct approach to budgetary policy in a crisis situation. The budget is devoted – and I am referring only to the major positions of the budget – to the fight against unemployment and employment, and to a very massive and convincing extent, ladies and gentlemen, as shown by the international comparison, where we are still the number two within Europe, what the unemployment rate is going to have, that is, the second lowest unemployment rate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] The budget has economic packages to stabilise and promote the economy and a tax reform on the content, Mr Strache; a tax reform which means: more money for families, because it is necessary to make more money available to families at a time of crisis, in order to also strengthen domestic demand accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Straight: A pure tariff reduction, but no tax reduction!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: A sensible measure!]] However, I would also like to take the opportunity to address the procedure for the budget debate. We have just one and a half weeks of committee debates and budget hearings behind us and now we have a budget debate here in plenary for almost a week and a half. I would like to invite all the political groups to consider whether this procedure, as it is handled, is really useful. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Jury.]] Thank you for this applause! At least a Member of Parliament seems to be my opinion, but I think it is more. But, Mr Strache, the opposition could also make a contribution, because it is complained here that we have an exuberant bureaucracy here and have to make savings there. I would like to ask you, Mr Strache, once again about the seriousness of this request. For we are making budget hearings in the committees for a week and a half, where each minister is, of course, available, as is planned, and immediately answering questions from each group. We changed the procedure – before all the political groups first asked questions, and then the Minister answered in one –: Now there is a direct confrontation, a direct question. But now I really ask you, Mr Strache: How would it be useful if a minister answered questions for more than two hours, and after the end of the committee then a part of the opposition parties put in writing exactly the same questions again?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Kogler: But that was not so concrete!]] [[Abg. Street: Because the answers were as empty as your speech!]] There, I have to say honestly, we could save a lot of bureaucracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. The empty speech?]] Mr Strache, we could all save ourselves a lot of time. Then we do it in writing the next time, so we all save a lot of time and we can talk to the voters. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I really want to tell you that too. [[Abg. Weinzinger: He wants to cut down opposition rights! Very good!]] There's almost a permanent pity about public administration here. It is said that we have too much in public administration, but at the same time it is always criticized that the procedures everywhere are too long, that there is too little civil kindness and more. I mean, that's a little bit also the square of the circle. Because if we save more in public administration, it would logically mean fewer staff and possibly longer procedures and less civil kindness. [[Abg. Strache: You didn't understand the principle at all! That does not mean to weaken the quality!]] That doesn't mean I'm not also for efficiency enhancement. There are, of course, double-tracks, but you have to deal with things a little more differentiated, Mr. Strache, than you do. I really want to say that very clearly here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: I cannot spare myself to say that, and above all not to Mr Kogler, because he has said that, although the budget does respond to the economic crisis, you have accepted it, I am also grateful for it, but he has not recognized it – but that is the reality; he has criticized it for a long and broad time – that the budget of these two years, which we decide, cannot already include the reorganisation of the budget. We have not yet reached the bottom of the crisis. We must first look at how deep the crisis goes at all, what is needed and necessary. [[Abg. Let's wait till we get to the valley! That is the concept of the Federal Government!]] What is the Greens' answer? – The Greens' answer is: Taxation for citizens. You come with the proposal for a tax increase, and I say to you: Increased taxation of land and land, homes and savings books will not exist with the People's Party! I'm telling you that in all clear terms. Because that's exactly what the wrong ones are. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Kogler, we too are in favour of a speculation tax. Of course, the speculators are to be caught, but we have to fight for this to happen in the European process, because otherwise it will not do anything, and you know it very well. The People's Party is in favour of this. I would like to conclude by thanking the Court of Auditors and the lawyers for their presence today: the Court of Auditors, because it is always providing us with very important documents which are necessary for parliamentary work, but also, in particular, with the people's lawyers, because the public prosecutorship for many citizens in dealing with public administration is something like the last anchor, if they no longer know. I would particularly like to thank the public prosecutors for their very often success in finding solutions in a very unbureaucratic way with the administration. That is exactly what the citizen and the citizen expect, a service from the public administration. And most of the time, in Austria, this is being solved very well, thank God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e30159	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk with a desired speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e30181	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Budget negotiations are about to end this week. So we're in the final round, just before the end. I do not want to say now that women's policy in Austria is also just before the end, but it really does not look good. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] With women's salaries, Austria is in the EU's cut ahead of Estonia. The low female budget does not change much about this situation. With 0.13 promille of the total budget, this is not really possible either. It is true that the women's budget has been slightly increased, but it is also right that this increase should be equated with the budget overrun of the presidential office in 2008. This amounted to €1.2 million, and around this amount the female budget has now been increased. So I can't really find a lot for the women here. The Minister of Women is now in office for about half a year. What has changed this half year? What concrete improvements have been made? What has been achieved in the area of equality between women and men in the labour market? What projects have been implemented from the government programme? – The payroll has not been closed, it has, on the contrary, continued to rise! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Court of Auditors – President Moser is here today – is also a bad witness to the promotion of women. This list could be continued at any time. I do not agree with the Minister of Women's efforts, but I have to put the question back into the room today – the Minister of Foreign Affairs is here today and will certainly answer me too – which is the cause of the evasion. According to health minister Stöger, she is supposed to follow rumors. ==References====External links== In May, he was written in the “Kronen Zeitung” (Kronen Zeitung). Faymann's wishful candidate for the succession was Heinisch-Hosek. I would really be very interested in whether this is true and how the Minister's position is. She would then be the third minister, who is fleeing the women's resort within a very short time, who is apparently ungrateful. I would ask myself, however, whether we need a woman's minister at all and whether it would not be generally wiser to set up a new division or perhaps to set up a ministry of equality, as we have often thought. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So a ministry of equality, where women's and men's agendas are treated, and perhaps family policy is being re-established, because in the current government, only a family state secretary is available to families. [[Abg. Steibl: She's doing good work!]] –She does good work; I have not criticized this either My honourable ladies and gentlemen from the government parties, if you always praise women’s solidarity here and point to women’s solidarity that women’s spokesmen should hold together, et cetera, then I may ask you why you never agree with our demands and our requests. The opposition parties’ requests are usually not accepted. We have recently tabled a request for the Maintenance Advancement Act, which has been rejected. The government parties, the ladies of the government parties, did not agree. I would ask you, also in the sense of the women of Austria, to allow for a common approach here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e30238	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e30260	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers at the gallery! I'm sorry, Dr. Fichtenbauer came to me now. I would have liked to tell him something about his discovery of the budget item for EU campaigns and to inform him about it. No EU campaign is planned. In principle, a campaign is planned by the entire Federal Government to show: What was done? What's going to be done? To a large extent, economy is also psychology, you know that, and therefore it is important that objective information is brought to the woman to whom man is brought in our country. – Unfortunately, Dr. Fichtenbauer is not in the hall now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To my colleague, Mr Schenk, who said that women would be better represented if we no longer had women's ministers. I'm different from that. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: She didn't say that! Minister for Gender Equality!]] We need a women's minister who is looking forward to women's continuing focus. And 14 percent more budget for women is an important signal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What I would like to say: Family work. We know that family work is still mostly women's work. The question of child care, also often the question of the care of parents or parents-in-law, the homework itself remains the main issue of women. Unfortunately, half-half has not yet arrived in the Austrian households. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Yes, it is also about strengthening the help of the men in the household and in household work. There you can take everyone to the nose, even if you still find it so funny. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would now like to come to a very important point in the budget, and I believe that this is a very essential and important emancipatory approach: the income-dependent child's allowance or care allowance, whatever you want to call it. Wherever this income-dependent pension money was introduced, the father's participation in child rearing is greatly accelerated. In Germany, for example, introduced under a conservative government, plus 20 percent in the father's participation! Scandinavian countries have long had the income-dependent karenz money. A positive thing for the families; everyone is much more satisfied, as the parameters show. The Courage for child also increases by such measures. This is an important measure that we will implement in Austria in the next few months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point is the question of childcare – still the work that women take over in the families in particular. It is therefore necessary, even if the competence of the countries is that so-called 15a contracts, these state agreements, should be concluded with the countries. This means that additional childcare places are created, with lunch table, with reasonable opening hours, not only with opening hours between 8 and 6 p.m. from September to June, but also with opening hours in July and August; I remember that holiday closing times are a major problem for many families. This is promoted by the federal government, because these are important and necessary measures. This helps the women, it helps the families. These VIP childcare places – these are as good as a red Ferrari, perhaps trying to compare men – are something where we still need a lot in the federal states, and they would benefit us very much. I come from Tyrol and can tell you that we would need many such VIP kindergartens, with appropriate opening hours so that the profession and family can really be agreed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next point is the compulsory kindergarten year between 5th and 6th. Year of life. That too is an important measure. The kindergarten is more than just a play group, the kindergarten is an educational institution. If this last kindergarten year is now provided free of charge in the morning, this will also help families. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end: I remember last year's 13th. Family aid has been introduced. This, too, helps families. In addition, the tax reform has given massive relief to medium incomes. A few months ago, the loss of unemployment insurance contributions was decided, which in particular benefited the people involved in low incomes – something that, in turn, helps women in particular. All in all, we have done a lot for women, and we continue to do so!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e30336	Now comes Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e30358	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear visitors, you are numerous here! What has not been promised in this first year of government in terms of women's policy! In December we were still able to hope for this, because we had the government package in front of us, freshly chained and not yet open. It was promised in the Women's Policy Chapter at least once, for example, that a national action plan for more Equality in the labour market will ensure that there will be an increase in intervention agencies for the protection and care of women. Unfortunately, after a three-quarters of a year, we caught up with reality. Not only that we women in this Parliament are as poorly represented as we have long been, with 27.3 percent – we cannot stress that often enough – has also worsened income justice between women and men in recent years. Austria is now the first-ever place in the EU comparison. According to Global Gender Gap Report, Austria is number 121 of 130. Nothing pleasing! The two economic packages, which have now been tied against the background of the economic crisis, are also primarily ‘men’s packages’. In other words, these are measures that primarily benefit men's employment. The tax reform – whether it deserves the name “reform” – does not take account of women, especially women who have not yet paid a wage tax. And that's 1.6 million women. In the Federal Finance Act which we now have, there is not really much for women either. That the budget of the Minister for Women has been increased, Mrs Wurm, this is always stressed and is beautiful, but it is only about 0.1% of the total budget, and that is very, very little. That means we're still moving here in the promille area. [[Abg. May. Worm: Gender budgeting!]] - Gender budgeting, yeah, that's where we need it. It is only the question of how this is implemented. The women's budget is only being increased by 1.3 million now, 2010 will be fewer again. And if you look at the extent to which the gender budgeting contained in the Constitution is implemented in the ministries, then the findings are relatively unacceptable: It is only implemented very hesitantly and partly negligently. So it doesn't really make you happy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If here in recent weeks the statement: The budget is the policy that has been cast into figures, so this is not really true in terms of equality between women and men. The budget is still the number of discrimination against women! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also think like you that we need a women's minister – as I am not your opinion, Mrs. Schenk – but we need a woman's minister, who is equipped with more budgets, who can make bigger jumps, which can spend more than €1.3 per woman on women's promotion. The will and the ability are two different things, and if you look at it and compare it, then the Minister of Women is unfortunately not quite that far, and that is the sadness of it. For example, page 154 of the government programme states that intervention agencies are to be expanded, a supervised emergency home for those affected by forced marriage is to be set up, and awareness-raising measures of police, justice, educators and health care are to be put in place. – Like “sensible” in the newly adopted new package for the protection of violence, the proposed legal process for victims of domestic violence in civil law has been taken away from the agenda. Unfortunately, this is very unfortunate! And the intervention agencies, especially in the regional area, must not hope for further expansion. The Minister for the Interior has stated in the Committee that this will prove very difficult. In other words, over the next two years, the intervention agencies will go out empty, at least as far as the increase is concerned. In addition, the Committee's Minister of the Interior also stated that the intervention agencies should have additional tasks, namely the care of women affected by forced marriage. It is amazing that the intervention agencies should do even more with less budget. What I am doing with a really sad chapter, an example of the absolute inability of the relevant ministries to set up an emergency home for women affected by forced marriage. For three years – as already stated in the second government agreement – the ministers responsible promise to set up an apartment for ten women who are affected or threatened by forced marriage. It may not take three years to plan, find and set up an apartment with appropriate care for ten women. And this, although in the Orient Express, the responsible association that takes care of women threatened by forced marriage, 426 consultations were held on the subject of forced marriage last year. That means that it is probably too little that only ten places will be available for women in such an apartment. In this respect, the Internal Region no longer shows a willingness to co-finance, but also wishes to hand responsibility over to the women's houses and thus to the countries. It has at least been transmitted to me from the committee responsible. It is already very unfortunate or worrying that women's homes, which already work enough and provide care beyond their capacity, should also be cared for by women who have to be cared for in particular, by very special caretakers. But there is not only a standstill for regional intervention agencies, but also for regional prosecutors. This is also unfortunate in terms of equal treatment for women and men in the working world. According to the Committee's reply, no additional funding is provided for this. This would be absolutely important, however, because many of the federal states simply cannot afford to go to the capital to get advice or necessary support for inequality in income or other discrimination in the working world. However, the advice alone does not help women, in addition to the planned National Action Plan on equality in the labour market, there is no additional budget for the implementation of this National Action Plan. It is therefore a little imaginative that we do not know how this National Action Plan will be implemented over the next four years and how we will stand next year in terms of income justice. This somehow leaves some hope, but I am afraid that nothing will be used to improve it. As long as only “budget crumbs” are pushed back and forth between the resorts, especially as regards women, this is rather sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e30408	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has now spoken. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is a 20-minute speaking time for host government members. What Furthermore, the club – in this case the SPÖ club – will be counted. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e30435	Madam President. Mr President. Women's People's Lawyers! Mr. Col. on the Government Bank! High house! Dear visitors! I do not think that a valuation of the government bank is adequate, but a comment is permitted: It is already significant, and I do not take any of the parties into account that only women's speakers on women's issues have reported that none of the colleagues – we are dealing with the Supreme Institutions – have said themselves on women's issues. But maybe that's still coming; the quality in which it comes, we'll listen to it. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, a woman's minister would like more budget, that is clear, but as long as she is a woman's minister in the Federal Chancellor's Office, the possibility is open to demand in each department what half of the population would be available; in Austria, we are women even a little more than half of the population. That is, in the field of economic experts, in the field of financial experts among you, it is also necessary for you to consider that in the individual committees, in the individual chapters, in the individual areas of content, women should not be short-lived in the individual topics, because we also make our contribution to this. My task is to carry out a coordinating function, to see that in the regions, not only as regards the budget, but above all as regards implementation, women's affairs, women's issues and equality issues, which I am also responsible for, are not too short. As you know, the equal treatment attorneyship belongs to my department, to the Federal Chancellery, and as you know, the equal treatment attorneyship has recently also been increasing for men, for men who complain that they do not have to get a free drink in a disco or pay higher entry prices in football stadiums, and so on and so on. This means, of course, that the equal treatment attorneyship is devoted to the concerns of both sexes, as it is their duty. I will also use the word “thanks” here several times, because I believe that the word “thanks” is more than just a flake and that it is important that we thank those who work with the women day after day in Austria. On the one hand, there are about 500 employees working throughout the federal territory, in the women's advisory bodies, in the women's service agencies, in emergency call facilities, in the care of and accompanying women of each age group, around the clock, with various problems, from professional advice to health policy issues to genuinely sensitive issues such as separation, divorce, violence of women, where it is necessary to help quickly, anonymously and freely so that women can orient themselves in this difficult phase as the next step is to look forward to. We must not close our eyes to the fact that these 500 women are caring for and accompanying Zig thousands of women. There are about 100 000 women a year who are advised in these women's institutions. I am not speaking now of the intervention agencies, which have special legislative powers, namely, because of our law on the protection of the protection of the rights of workers, the task and the task, in good cooperation with the Member States. Police to contact the women and then to communicate them to the bodies responsible for them, which I have just called. These are 150 000 hours of consulting each year, and I would like to thank these women at this point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, I would like to thank my colleagues in the women's section, Section II, who accompany me very well, advise and support me – not only as regards the budget issues, but also as regards the content I have to communicate, and the departments I have to ask to address women's topics as well – and also my employees in my office, who are equally trying to make women's concerns and equality concerns important and serious in Austria, perhaps more serious than some others. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is indeed true that it is not yet clear how we can achieve the expansion of intervention agencies and centres of violence, as provided for in the government programme, because the talks with the Minister of the Interior have not yet been completed. This is because if we want to get the status quo and add some regional posts and build up the emergency apartment for those affected by forced marriage, it is necessary that not only I raise my budget a little – I have budgeted it – but also the Minister of the Interior. But I am convinced that we will come to a good solution so that women who are affected by this kind of violence can also be well cared for. Yes, it is true that in my budget for subsidies and expenses there is a little bit of increase, but perhaps not as we would wish. And yet, as you have referred to the National Action Plan: It is precisely on this equality plan that the Government Convention also states that the additional resources that are spent on this need to be spent by the individual departments. I am accompanying this National Action Plan, and I am coordinating it. There is also a small budget for this, because we are well advised on this and we are well cared for; but then it is that if we need money for women's labour market policies, I will go to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and call for the money that is needed there. We have five years. This does not mean that you should be of the opinion that there is nothing going on, because I have to make a progress report every year. We shouldn't be there. We, the entire Federal Government, have known about this, and we are no longer talking about whether we are doing something, but we are now talking about how we are doing it. And that is, I believe, a progress and a quality advantage that we did not have in the past. And if we want to put such a national action plan very serious on our legs and plan, then we have to involve everyone on the one hand and try to implement realistic demands on the other. The social partners need to be able to put things into practice. They all know that there is a very innovative social security paper, in which exactly the closure of income shears, the demand for more women in senior positions, for more women in full-time employment. And paper should not remain patient – I am responsible for that, and I will make a great effort to do so together. a little bit further with everyone here so that we can say in 2013: Yes, the salary shear has become a little smaller! and: Yes, we have managed to expand the child care offer for the under-three year olds! I don't care what this is like. It can be a mixing system because the offer is different from one country to another – whether it is more day-parents or institutional childcare facilities. We only have to give men and women, women and men – to say it in this order – the possibility that they can choose their lives the way they want, and not the fear that their child is not well-occupied. And that's what we're gonna work on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also believe that we should not forget the budget in the entire debate, and that has already been said today: The budget has been created at a time when we have not yet known exactly how this crisis could affect – and we still do not know exactly, I say. [[Demonstrative applause and bravoruf des Abg. Linder.]] And I believe it is necessary to bear in mind that the advisory burden for women who are affected by violence, for women who lose their jobs, for women who have to care for their families, if they are the only ones who deserve in the family and perhaps only have a part-time job, that the advice for these women will rise, and that we should all reflect together on how we can cope with the situation of these women and what we can still do here so that we can not leave these women alone, not be left in the rain. It will therefore be necessary to hold further discussions and, in turn, to ask the departments to make their contribution so that this offer can be maintained. In this sense also a thank you to the countries and communities, which all pay, so that the offer – as it is – can be maintained on the one hand and on the other hand can also be partly extended, which leads to women's houses and other emergency apartments and facilities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me also say a few words about the public service. In the public service, we estimated about €7 billion in personnel costs for the more than 130,000 people in the Federal Service. That's not little, it's a lot of responsibility. And I am aware that it was through the consolidation path in the budget, i.e. through the amount of savings we had provided and could almost comply with – because we have saved almost 3 000 planned places when we take away the 1,000 police officers for security in our country; but we give them to that, that is, there are almost 2 000 planning posts that are saved; we do not save on safety, and we do not save in education, we do not save on teachers – but it is so that all staff in the federal government, whether contract staff or officials, of course there are more challenges. If we have to reduce the number of staff and still have to deal with the same or even more tasks, then a particularly high level of sense of responsibility is required, on the one hand, of those who work there, but on the other hand, on the other hand, to improve and optimise the supply of staff, which will result in further training and process optimization as a whole. And I would also like to thank all these people in the public service, all my colleagues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe it is important to conclude by saying that the current staff plans and the accompanying measures taken – in the Council of Ministers in April we decided to take a measure to discharge citizens and to optimise processes – will ensure that the public service, which has so far been a reliable partner not only for citizens but also for the economy, can remain this reliable partner in the future and that Austria, as a service location, will also be able to maintain its high level.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e30595	The next item is Mr Grossruck. I would like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e30616	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear People's Lawyers and dear Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you said that the parties sent only the women's speakers to the speaker's desk – I think you said that, didn't you? – to represent women's issues. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: On Women's Topics!]] I would also like to say a few words about this, because, ladies and gentlemen: Do not talk about it, but act! My successor in my capacity as mayor of Grieskirchen has become a woman I have proposed, which I have promoted. [[Congratulations with MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[Abg. Pendl: Bravo!]] And you know, the biggest skeptics at first were the women themselves who said: A woman, can that be something? - That's just to help bring the truth to honor. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: I don't think so!]] I also said that I did not propose this colleague because she is a woman, but because she is good. [[Abg. May. Worm: That's all for it!]] And I think that has been accepted in general. I believe that we should see things – in all the differences of discussion – as well. And she will win the elections very well even in the autumn, I am convinced of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are at the discussion about the communities, and I have not really understood colleagues Kogler, who – almost – he has dragged hatred against the communities. [[Abg. Singer: That's a fool!]] It happened to me, here a blind man spoke of a symphony or a dove. Although, as we know, Ludwig van Beethoven composed the Ninth when he was deaf, it is true that Beethoven was just a genius – what I do not want to say in the face of this discussion by my colleague Kogler. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen: Just go here and “repress” the mayors, they are unthinking and know what to put under God, that’s already a strong piece! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... concrete abuses revealed!]] Only one who has no idea can do that. This can only be done by one who gives censorships from the protected workshop of the Greens, but does not know how the communities really do. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We know that there are three levels of constitution, dear Mr. Kogler – he is not in the hall now, but perhaps he would have heard it – where the parish level is equal and equivalent, such as the state or the states. So now go here and distribute censorships, that's strong. It is clear to me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that it is the intention of an authority to grow, to grow and to expand audit skills. However, I see – and our clubman has also said it – that there is no point in having small communities, which are anyway examined by three bodies – which are occupied by their own audit committee, which is ex-initiated by an oppositionist, which I would also like to say, by the district administration authority and by the national accounting court, also examined by the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: 13 million in Oberwart! 13 million!]] That's where I have to ask myself: Should the communities be tested to death? And if something happens, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, it is usually too late. Then, too, the Court of Auditors will not be able to help if something happens there or there. So I really want to break a lance for the mayors, for those who work in the communities. It's a bonework. Every day, unlike here in Parliament, from Mr Kogler, you are being measured, as the work is done – I think you agree with me too, colleague of the BZÖ, you are mayor of Gmünd in Carinthia, not true, also successful – and I believe that the mayors are doing excellent work. [[in the direction of the Abg. Jury]] That is why it does not make sense, and I do not think it is appropriate to extend the Court of Auditors' agendas to municipalities with fewer than 20 000 inhabitants. The Court of Auditors can, in any case, examine outsourced associations, which is already possible today. A thank you also to the People's Procuratorate. I have already mentioned in the last report what will be done, whatever assistance we have. I'd have an inspiration, dear People's Procuratorate: Our EU member Paul Rübig has been working in Brussels to reduce roaming charges across Europe, i.e. if you are abroad and telephone with your phone, you pay less costs. – In Austria, the opposite seems to be the case, at least as far as the side fees are concerned. Since Deutsche Telekom Austria has recently charged €40 for a fee of €12 – that is more than 25 percent. There is already a question of whether this is still right or whether there is no need for action which makes it necessary, in particular in the state-related or almost state-owned establishments, to look at whether they are not going to get a basket fee in the light of the lower telephone fees on the other hand via administrative costs or payment fees. I think it would be appropriate once to examine and see how far the right is. And if it is right, then I believe that there is a bar set forward, for it is certainly a prey that is not willing and not desired. – So that would be my request to go there. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the end – the light at the speaker’s desk already shines – and I want to say goodbye to a four-lineer again, and I would like to re-emphasize the causa that has been discussed lately, the cross in the hand of Mr Strache and the “circuit”. Today we have read, Strache will pay tribute to Cardinal Schönborn. In addition, a four-liner: Joined as crusader to save the country of the evening. However: His shine is quickly faded. Now he has to crawl to the crosses!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e30778	The President of the Court of Auditors has now spoken. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e30799	Madam President of the National Council! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Dear women People's lawyers! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! I would like to thank you very much once again for the positive words you have found for the work of the Court of Auditors. On this occasion, I would also like to thank the very constructive, meaningful and in-depth debate in the Court of Auditors and also to point out that the staff of the Court of Auditors are very much trying to meet the requirements of an objective, independent and very qualitative control authority. The Court of Auditors has therefore also taken the path in recent years, both internationally and nationally, to be a benchmarker and to move forward with a good example. We are also working very strongly internationally in the INTOSAI General Secretariat with the UN and the World Bank, with development banks, in order to enable the developing countries or emerging countries to strengthen control. It has also been proclaimed by INTOSAI in 2009 the main theme of independence, because in many countries the independence, as it is supposed to be in control, is not marked or does not have the status of having an institution that helps parliamentary control or also gives parliamentary control a reputation. – In this direction we are active. We are also active, as I would like to thank the President of the Commission, in order to intensify and strengthen cooperation with the IPU in this regard, and I would therefore ask you, as Members of your international contacts, to support the Court of Auditors in its efforts to strengthen control, international control. As regards the Court of Auditors as such or its budget, you see or are aware that the Court of Auditors also sees it as a matter of course here as a contribution to the necessary consolidation, with the funds now provided for in the budget being exactly the means necessary for the Court of Auditors to fulfil its constitutional tasks. As regards, for example, the share of the Court of Auditors in the general budget, it was 0.030 percent in 1999 and 0.0176 percent in 2009. That is, he has almost halved, as measured by the general budget. You see, therefore, that quality has improved, that the Court of Auditors has become more efficient, but on the other hand, the cost of control has been reduced. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] A brief note: The increase in the budget for the Court of Auditors in 2009 is mainly due to the reorganisation of the Court of Auditors' official building, with the Court of Auditors on 1 January 2009. In May, he returned to this renovated office building. But it should also be mentioned here that of the €6 million that the Court of Auditors has to contribute to the reorganisation, it has covered at least three quarters of its own, self-contained reserves and only costs €1.3 million. Thus, it can also be seen here that a contribution to the renovation of the official building has been made through savings or by the consistent economic leadership. If you look into the future and ask: What does the Court of Auditors do? As a benchmarker and always as an evaluator of our own achievements, we conduct a peer review. This will now be carried out in autumn 2009. They shall be informed accordingly. We're also making a customer survey, so I'm looking for you: Please take part in this customer survey! You are the most important customer of control, you are also the one who exercises control. Please answer the questions, give us a feedback so that we can get even better or know where we are currently! We are also preparing the “250 years of control” in Austria. It will celebrate the 250th anniversary of the Court of Auditors in 2011. Here too, there will be a look back and at the same time a view into the future. In addition, the Court of Auditors is also committed to the current efforts to implement a necessary, necessary and appropriate administrative reform or structural reform. In the context of this debate, the conclusion of control gaps was addressed, among other things. They know that the Court of Auditors is always pointing out – and this is a classic task – that it is intended to take place in such a way that there are no control gaps, that the escape from control is avoided, and that the state action and the use of public funds are carried out transparently. This includes one point, namely, that you already have the opportunity to know what happens to the tax funds at the core shareholder's side. This is the only way to do this if we already have a audit of the Court of Auditors at the time of the nuclear shareholders, that transparency is obtained, because only by doing so will you have the opportunity to look through the Court of Auditors at what has happened with the funds. Another point is that municipalities are currently subject to transparent public financial control of €16.4 billion. I would also like to say: It is not a question of the Court of Auditors wanting to have another task that the Court of Auditors wants to have additional activities – to save us from occupying our planning sites only when it is necessary – but, in my opinion, it is about the municipal citizen having a right to know whether the municipal fees, which have been prescribed, are actually appropriate, complying with the requirements or whether cross-financing takes place at all times. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The question is that the municipal council also has the opportunity to exercise its control, and it is about the community having the opportunity to know whether the transfer revenue is covered by the transfer expenditure. I would like to point out that the communities are the core objectives of state action, and that is why it is necessary for the communities to know whether the tasks they have are eligible for funding and whether they have the necessary resources to do so. At the same time, however, there should be transparency and treatment in this area. [[BZÖ and Abg. Singer.]] I think this is necessary! – I only mention the factual arguments that you then have the opportunity to decide on them. But it is about the fact that, from the Court's point of view, the communities have been strengthened in recent years. They know that in 2005, small communities received an extension, an improvement in the graded population key. They know that in 2008 more than €500 million were added to the municipalities as part of the financial compensation. They know that local authorities are increasingly carrying out tasks in this area. And it will be necessary to ensure that the state action in this regard can best be carried out, that communities with a test association are also involved in an objectivity association. Last but not least, we have a general economic view in Austria, which also requires the level of the communities so that they are involved. It is also about the following: Where do you want the money to flow? Is the financial compensation fair or not fair? – We cannot say that at the moment, for for example – I quote Statistics Austria – it is like this: There is a lack of information at local level on investment, debt and financial debt, as these revenue and expenditure are no longer made in the municipal budgets, but are recorded in outsourced institutions. As a result, distortions in the whole of the financial statistics are increasingly occurring in the municipal sector. It would be necessary to create transparency in this area. - Quote. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grossruck and Mr Rädler.]] Next area. They have said that the communities will be examined several times. – I can only say here that it is true, but it is always the question of the form in which the tests take place. There is a different organisation of supervision, different supervisory means, different audit standards and different audit competences in the local authorities. This means that there are absolutely different test competences. There is no mandatory public treatment of the audit reports of the local authorities. We have in this area, because publicly it can be excluded... – I quote here § 59 of the Steiermärkische Gemeindeordnung, I quote § 36 of the Tiroler Gemeindeordnung. [[Abg. Grossruck: Of course!]] This is not mandatory public, but mandatory public is merely the treatment of the accounts. So you see, Mr Grossruck, it's different! It is not the same as transparency everywhere. If one looks at the field of the supervision of countries, it is to be said: There, too, the tasks are completely different. There is control of the conduct of the Court of Auditors, according to economy, economic efficiency and effectiveness, one of many tasks carried out by the local authorities of the countries, and there is a very different organization and allocation. We have the problem that by the municipalities, as mentioned, €7.8 billion of financial debt has been outsourced to market-orientated companies and that there is no control there, not from municipal supervision or from the country's supervision. [[Abg. Rädler: Big municipalities!]] In other words, it would be appropriate to do so, since it would be necessary, in this respect, to act in the field of Community supervision, to have control here. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] There is also an example of the fact that control should not take place at this stage. I quote a member of a municipal control committee, an audit committee, who says: The work of the Audit Committee is particularly difficult in our community. It is not possible to exercise sufficient rights as a member of the Audit Committee. On the one hand, the distributed society is not responsible for auditing, on the other hand, there are decisions that affect the community, for example, liabilities over €18 million. - Quote. Don't you want clarity as part of the council? Do you not want to decide, since this concerns the municipal budget, how it looks and whether transparency would be necessary and therefore economic action appropriate? [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] The last point I would like to mention here is the following: I am quoting an unwarranted member or someone who certainly knows himself well in this area, namely Mr Hofrat Dr. Robert Hint, General Secretary of the Federal Government. He performs the following – I quote – in the work “Das Gemeindekomplott”: In recent years, the direct design possibilities of a community have been greatly reduced. The impact here is that more and more economic tasks of the municipalities can be carried out by distributed companies, companies. They are thus deprived of direct control of the municipal council. - Quote. [[Abg. Rädler: Which communities are these? - The big ones!]] In other words, it would be appropriate to take the communities into the control association in their own interest to give them the opportunity to know whether the transfer revenue is covered by the transfer expenditure and to give them the opportunity to know where you are in the benchmark comparison. Times in which control was something negative, a nuisance, are, I believe, long over because it has been shown that new ways can be taken with control. Control helps, advises control. Take the approach that you have the possibility that someone from the state that has the necessary know-how will also give you this know-how and help you, that is, the community, so that you can carry out your tasks accordingly! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I am ready in this area, as the current debate will not be enough, at any time to prove to you with facts, with data, with documents that it is. Anytime! The recent developments in Burgenland and in the South of Burgenland as such show that it would be necessary, in this area in particular, to rely on objective transparent control in order to do something for the credibility of the communities. It's out of the question! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e30937	Mr Zanger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e30973	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! My dear, valued folk lawyers! Before I go into the speech by the President of the Court of Auditors, which is also a great concern to me when I see the excitement in the black ranks, I can submit the following motion for a resolution on the public prosecutor's control rights: [[Quoted print version removed]] A word on the Amonian lighting of the budget: This makes it clear that the V in the People's Party is not only for "people", but obviously for either "confusion" – that Mr Amon has confused it or read it in a state of confusion – or for "sleep" and "toil" because the ministers to whom we have asked the questions not only orally but also in writing have either not answered these questions or, because of the extent of the answers themselves, asked to submit them in writing. - That's how it looks! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So I am very surprised why the ÖVP and also the colleague Pendl take these attacks, which they were not – they were not attacks on the mayors – so seriously and why they are so upset. They're not attacks! But if you think all of your mayors are wonderful, then you've fooled yourself! I have to tell you quite clearly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck:... a mayor-hatz! That's it!]] - No, no! That's not it. I myself am a member of the municipal council and I am a member of the Audit Committee. But I guarantee you, that no one of your mayor knows everything. [[Abg. Grandruck: Eh not!]] - Just like that. Control within the meaning of the Court of Auditors - and I have said this several times in the committee responsible - is also an opportunity. That's a chance! It does not mean that only the great scandals need to be revealed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's about asking: What happens to the money? Does it flow into the right channels? Can I save myself something? – It may be that after a certain period of years, you will be blinded to work as a mayor in the municipality. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's fact, why are you so excited? That's the truth! - Yeah, right, that's where you could get hooked. [[Abg. Großruck: Because you don't know what you're talking about!]] [[Abg. Eßl: What does the local authority do?]] At the local supervision the Blacks examine the black communities and the Reds the red communities. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The audit by the Court of Auditors would bring savings and give rise to many opportunities that are not based on limited but not consciously limited views – I am convinced of that. Another topic: Where is the Court of Auditors' audit competence to develop? This is also a major concern of the Freedom Party. We decided on the bank rescue package in autumn. We have provided €100 billion to which banks can access, and there are banks that have taken advantage of this rescue package. However, we have not provided the opportunity – under the control of the Court of Auditors – to determine how these resources are used. We have ideas about how they should be used, but we have no way to influence whether that actually happens. These funds belong to the hands of consumers, small and medium-sized enterprises, and so far I have not heard of anything that has even arrived with them. We also believe that the €250 million that flow directly from the EU into private hands must also be subject to the control of the Court of Auditors. € 250 million from our tax money is probably a corresponding amount that would earn it. In this sense, I would like to make another motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e31142	The motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are being discussed. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e31317	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e31339	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on gender equality, gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting in the Parliamentary Directorate in the context of the budget debate on the top institutions. An important and very positive measure on gender equality is the Women's Promotion Plan of the Parliamentary Directorate. Initial achievements in implementing – to name only a few – are: the gender mainstreaming strategy and the implementation of women's promotion in all measures of personnel planning and personnel development, an improvement of work and family compatibility, for example through individual working time regulations and innovative forms of work, and a definition of appropriate measures to achieve a share of female staff in all grades of at least 40 percent. Madam President Prammer has set up a working group on Gender Budgeting, which deals with two pilot projects in her work: a study on visitor centres and one on personnel costs. In the study on Visitors' centres could be found that, except for the use of the media station, more female visitors than male visitors would benefit from the offers of the Austrian Parliament. In the personnel cost pilot project, it was found that the costs for women are slightly lower than those for men. The difference is explained by the age structure. Women are on average younger in Parliament's management. However, this also means that in the next few years there will be a balance between women and men. The proportion of women in Parliament's management is also developing positively. There is for the first time a woman as a vice director, and also in the third management level, among the service managers, a proportion of 43 percent is recorded. Several women's promotion measures are also being implemented as part of the award of contracts for the redesign of the National Council Hall. In this way, the promotion of women in the Parliamentary Directorate – not least through the first appearance of a woman as the National Council President – is on a very good path. This enables women and men to have equal opportunities in the achievement of management functions and in the compatibility of family and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e31384	Mr Huber. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e31405	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Appreciate viewers on the ranks! I wonder, since he is not apologised, all day long, where the colleague is Mrs Faul. [[Abg. Grosz: He's black!]] It seems not only missing in school, it also lacks in the High House and registers two gigs. That's incredible. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Faul fur!]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Now some things about our budget. On and on, the Federal Chancellor would have to exercise a model function. As the Federal Chancellor, he would have to set up a budget as a team leader in himself, which would provide a model effect and courageous reforms. But that's not the case. This budget is a single bold continuation of the last figures. It can't be. If I am today from my Tyrolean colleague, who is not here now – perhaps she is looking for Mr Faul – I hear that €5 million of the Federal Chancellor's budget is intended to finance an EU campaign, an action that is back on the public media, then I can only say: This obviously goes according to the motto: Whoever doesn't want to hear, let him feel! ==References====External links== The citizens are still being overshadowed with propaganda on September. It can't be. Who believes that the Spesen- und Privilegienkanda in England is an isolated case, it is a huge mistake. Red and black don't stand for anything. I can show you a few numbers: Travel costs only for travel abroad of this Federal Government in 2008 amounted to €2 808 000. This results in a fee of €7 700 per day and per minister per day. Only the ads of the Federal Government in the time of Mr. Molterer’s speech – “It’s enough!” – of 7. ==References== September, cost €9 million. For the whole of 2008 this Federal Government has posted around €34 900 000 ads. ads objectively, not objectively, it is incredible how tax money is destroyed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] This is a scandal that is incredible! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this budget one goes here and estimates another €5 million for such a propaganda. - It can't be. The total cost of the ministerial offices and the Secretary-General in 2008 alone amounted to €23 600 000, the representation costs of this red and black government in 2008 to €5 900 000. The taxi costs of government members alone in 2008 amounted to €920 000. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 920 000 €!]] These numbers are researched and everyone can have them. For the flight costs of the individual resorts – now it comes! ==References== ==References== ==References====External links== [[Abg. Crist: Incredible!]] This is really incredible – that says even a colleague from SPÖ – but you don't change it! On the other hand, you secure your grain, but on the other hand, take fresh money in order to relieve the budget so that the purchasing power is strengthened so that the population and SMEs can invest, in this respect you completely fail. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Riepl: How much the Gorbach used! Then he wrote a letter to England!]] A few words to the People's Procuratorate. – The People's Procuratorate does excellent work, belongs to promoted and expanded, but I would ask for attention to the cases of the citizens and not to the long-standing, well- deserved popular attorney Mag. Ewald Stadler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e31528	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e31550	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Appreciate People's Procuratorate! Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of Supreme Organs provides an opportunity to bring in basic thoughts. As Waldviertler Bauer, the terms “sustainability” and “efficiency” have a very high priority for me. In agriculture and especially in the forestry sector, there is a responsibility to take over, so to speak, in tree generations: Rarely can you harvest as a farmer a tree that you planted yourself. With such a basic attitude, it is understandable that in recent years the fields of conflict with an international community of faith in the financial sector, where one has assumed from the belief that more than 20 percent of the return can be achieved without one's own hands and 100 percent of its capital can be recovered. The global economic crisis in recent times has taught us a better one. In the meantime, it is known that the term “cross-board leasing” is a sympathetic sounding formulation in cases when much money is so to speak about the Jordan. Ladies and gentlemen, if more than 80 percent of the world's fluctuating capital is barely or not controlled, there is a need for action. In this context, however, I rely much more on European institutions than on so many rating agencies. Lehman Brothers has lost a high degree of credibility in the financial sector. Unfortunately, even the International Monetary Fund had serious misevaluations, as we Austrians had to experience recently. Ladies and gentlemen! But a crisis is also a chance on the way back to reason. Upper organs have to set positive examples in this context in order to be credible. In this context, the Supreme Supervisory Body of the Republic, the Court of Auditors, has a positive sign by subjecting itself to control. Ladies and gentlemen! The President of the Court of Auditors has referred to the examination of municipal finances, and his conclusion was that there is still a need for discussion in this context. Mr President, I share your opinion: Yes, there is a need for discussion in this context, because, as you are meaningfully representing this, we need to take into account an efficient use of resources. I would like to invite you to the community, open all the books to you, you can check everywhere, we have been checked several times and we have no problem in controlling the Court of Auditors. If you see the modest figures of our budget due to the low dimensions, you will find the following note in the Minutes: Mr President, when he saw the small, modest figures, he cried bitterly. We have no problem with control, as has been said. We are only concerned that the funds are used efficiently. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask you, in this discussion, to comment on what the test facilities are currently in place – with us there is a corresponding body of the municipal council, chaired by an opponent from the opposition that is carrying out the examination; the State of Lower Austria is going to carry out the examination – to be taken into consideration. I would ask you, Mr President, to clarify which level you want to save in the future. I also have to say one thing critically, Mr President: Any report submitted by the examination bodies of the country shall be made available to the municipal council in full and verifiable. And I would ask you, in the context of this discussion, to intensify us in this context. I am of your opinion, then, when it comes to very large amounts and outsourced companies, I am in a more intensive position to exercise control. The Federal Minister has asked the Members of this House from the Government Bank to give an opinion on women's issues. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to note that the Bundesanstalt für Miningnfragen is occupied with a leader. I would be delighted about the applause of the Federal Minister. Mine's got the lady!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e31608	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e31629	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, addressed to the address of Mr Huber and to the People's Procuratorate: In Austria, there are no 8 million Volksanwälte or Volksanwälten, and therefore, candidates for the EU parliamentary elections are not volunteers in Brussels. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we want to take the public prosecutor's instrument seriously, we also need to ensure here in Parliament that the term 'populator'/'people' is used. Advocate” is not used inflationaryly, and I would also like to ask for information from the Public Prosecutor's Office if that is possible in any way. Now I come to the beginning of this debate, where Klubobmann Kopf, as well as Mr Wittmann and Mr Ostermayer, have found praises for the film, such as “special cultural heritage” or “serious economic activity”. Mr Kopf has also said that this is an important economic growth sector and a value added factor. Of course, the praise has also come in connection with Haneke's cinematographic film; Ruzowitzky and Spielmann were mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the movie film, and this year the film is not being promoted in the budget; this has to be explicitly mentioned, and it is also very bad. There will not be exactly the money that needs it and which has proved that they can handle it very well. The promotion for the TV film is increased by €6 million, but these are not the same people. It must already be said that the only bridge between cinematographic film and television film, the film television agreement, is in front of the termination in ORF – Mr. Deputie Head also mentioned this and expressed the hope that it will not be that way – but I have not heard a definitive statement from the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has merely said that the ORF has to operate autonomously, that the ORF itself has required a balanced balance for 2010 and that it welcomes it and that perhaps a easing of the advertising restrictions by law should come as aid. Klubobmann's head hasn't seen that at all. It means that there is no real agreement in this regard. Instead of full remuneration of broadcasting charges to the ORF, there will be a discussion about easing the restrictions on advertising, obviously or possibly at the expense of the Film Television Agreement. As the media diversity is constantly talking about how positive it would be, ladies and gentlemen: The only ones who make broadcasting and television without any economic interests are the non-commercial channels, namely the free radios and the Community TVs, and this time only € 1 million. It is not really possible to set culture in motion. And the distribution key between private individuals who receive 5 million and non-commercials who get only 1 million does not really contribute to the diversity of media. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr State Secretary, because you are probably waiting for my opinion on the promotion of groups – you will not be disappointed –: Yes, even now I say what I always say about it: The €100 000 does not represent an increase at all. The law actually requires that there be sufficient funding and dispensation. There has been a budget of the same size since 1995. It cannot be enough for what was enough in 1995 to be 15 years later, because we must also take into account inflation. I think we're dealing with a construction site that should finally be started once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e31717	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e31770	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e31791	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Appreciate members of the People's Procuratorate! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors! The budget chapter “Top Institutions” also includes the funds for our immediate working environment, the Parliament. Despite the general scheme of savings, which of course also applies to Parliament, the funds for Parliament are well-appointed money. I mean not only the construction projects that are urgently necessary – I am pleased that this is a slow process – but above all investment in the software of democracy, which is used to bring Parliament closer to the population, especially young people, because the requirement for democracy to work at all is democratically-seen... – The software is the mental input, the thoughts that are sponsored and expressed here, the discussion that takes place here. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What is the “software of democracy”?]] People who are democratically-seen and educated are the prerequisites for democracy to function. Therefore, efforts in this direction are invaluable. Above all, I would like to draw attention to the democracy workshop – an initiative by our President Barbara Prammer. This will not only make Parliament more child-friendly and youth-friendly, but it will enable democracy to be actively experienced and tried out. It is an answer to the reduction of the electoral age and also to the much-discussed and also worrying political irration. I am particularly pleased to see how this project has developed positively, especially as I was able to work on the precursors of this project as a child and youth speaker. This has become a real demonstration project, which is also being observed internationally. There is hardly anything comparable in such professionalism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, this is really a welcome, and I am continuing to give this applause to all those involved in this democracy workshop. It repeatedly offers delegates to the National Council and members of the Federal Council the one or the other morning to be available to young people for interviews. A movie has even been filmed recently. Prints are also produced regularly. Also a warm thank you for your participation, where it is certainly not a victim, but, quite the contrary, it is an enriching experience – Mrs. Colleague, you nod; Mr Colleague, you give me the right to be confronted also with questions from students. So thank you to all the contributors. We see that's really good investment money!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e31835	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e31856	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear People's Procuratorate! Say hello to God! High house! The increase in the budget for women by 14 per cent is satisfactory, but we must not forget that there has been a rather low level. I must regret that women's policy will have only a very subordinate role in the budget over the next two years. I fear that the EUR 10 million budgeted for this is just a drop on the hot stone. To this end, I should like to recall the criticism recently expressed by the Court of Auditors, which states that women's promotion is less targeted and anti-innovation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The increase in your budget, Mrs Minister, by €1.24 million will be of little use if, to a large extent, only existing measures are supported. And I look forward to the promised establishment of new women's services. We need intervention agencies, anti-violence centres and emergency homes. We all agree on this in a cross-group way. You too, Mrs Minister, have spoken about their importance and stressed the importance of supporting women in emergency situations. The effects of the current economic crisis and rising unemployment will again be felt by women, whether directly by the loss of work or indirectly by violence in the families. Aid organisations report that single parents are most at risk from poverty. That's alarming. But women in partnerships also have to deal with increasing problems, such as increasing domestic violence. The 6 570 orders and bans from the previous year will certainly experience an increase this year – and I find that sad. This is where it is necessary to take preventive action. Not only banks and car manufacturers need our help, but also simple people, especially women. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In other words, the economic crisis and the consequences associated with it are very likely to open the eyes of the political leaders. For example, the Spanish government wants to recognize housewives as skilled professionals – a demand which we have long raised from the FPÖ in this country. The corresponding decree is intended to benefit around 500 000 women in Spain. This not only helps these women, but also the care facilities that often suffer from lack of personnel. Mother and housewife must be recognized as a profession and also compensated. That would be the best promotion of women and families! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We will also take a close look at the results of the government's efforts in the field of equal treatment for men and women. The recognition of your ministry that the removal of hidden discrimination, transparent entry salaries and the abolition of fixation on gender-specific occupations are a priority must now also follow suit. The key to this is the social partners' negotiations. So far, no women's minister has been able to provide political and social partners with a concrete programme of measures... [[Abg. May. Worm: 1 000 € Minimum wage!]] Yes, but thank you! - Gisela, I'll talk to you about it. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: (in the direction of Abg. May. Worm) Don't interrupt!]] It has not yet been possible to require the political and social partners to adopt a concrete package of measures with regard to the reduction of differences in income between sexes. Here, Mrs. Minister, you are waiting for a task that is not easy, but can be carried out. I also look forward to the announced National Action Plan. I hope you can stay here with your ministerial colleagues. Let me also say a sentence on the much appreciated gender budgeting; Mrs Becher also pointed out the need for this. – The objective of creating a gender-friendly and gender-friendly household is honorable, but I do not believe that it is feasible in practice. Since there is equality between men and women in Austria from the law anyway, it should have been implemented for a long time. In my opinion, we should not make gender budgeting, but this should be replaced by a generation budgeting. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Each law should, after its examination of EU law compatibility and budgetary implications, also be assessed for generation compatibility. Ladies and gentlemen! The work of many women is accompanied by the discussion on the compatibility of family and work. We from the FPÖ advocate freedom of choice, namely to shape life according to our own ideas. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This means that the care of children at home must be accepted and respected in the first years of life as well as the early return to work. But especially those women who want to devote themselves exclusively to their children for a time are discriminated against and often struggle with obstacles to re-entry. I therefore call once again for the better financial security of mothers by the public hand, with my attention also to the promotion of women over 50 and the re-primary women. In the current discussion, I miss a strong signal from the Federal Government for all those women who have for years left out of a career and have given their family a home and a place of security. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In particular, old age insurance will be improved by a voluntary pension split, which requires more transparent support for unpaid family work at all. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] The Federal Government's policy only goes in the direction of promoting career women and professionals at all costs. For me, however, being a woman is not only about career; this view is too narrow for me and does not reflect the social reality in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] The ignorance that politics brings to groups such as housewives, farmers, pensioners and single parents is unbearable to me. [[Call the SPÖ: Unbelievable!]] Special young women are dissatisfied with the current discussion. If once only the cliché “kitchen, church, children” they are often pushed into the scheme“ careers at any price. ” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] In the overall view, it turns out to me that women's policies need not only more money but also a serious change in course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32008	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32029	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I will, of course, also take a position on the position of women's budget, but I have to get some air to my mayor's heart here right now, after today a mud battle and a variety of things have been released to the mayors. I find it unheard-of that Members are producing and from this point of view accusing women and men throughout Austria of inability, the neglect of money, we, the mayors, are comparing with criminal elements from the banking sector, which have corrupted money. No mayor, no mayor has mistrusted! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] No one here has illegally ‘packed’ taxpayers' money. That's what I keep from! [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] One – this will be read in the Minutes, and I will be happy to send it to the mayors throughout the country – Mr President Moser, with all due regard: Today you have leaned very far out of a party-political window, I say it very openly – I take nothing back at all, so it is! – if you say here today that the communities do not have their finances under control that they need to be reviewed even further despite three-fold examination. [[Abg. Grosz: What? Take it back!]] [[Abg. New builder: This is unheard of! That's unheard of!]] And I say this for all those who have only one spark of interest and goodwill towards their community, whether as parish officials, as parish servants, whom I expressly thank for their work, especially those in accounting, that is also to say here –: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] In the municipalities is invested! There are schools, there are kindergartens, there are streets built, there are canal facilities built. Yes, that happens, but no money is sunk in the Caribbean or in private somewhere. Let us guard against that! – Investment yes; the municipality is the largest client in the respective regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: What about Hartberg? They got it in the Caribbean...!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the scenario can almost continue when I come to the women's budget. If I've heard a little bit about how terrible it is for women in Austria and how bad it is, we'd have to go out now and find that they're going through Vienna with broken, broken faces and in rags. No, I see discreet women! I see dedicated women of all ages, social security, well cared for. Of course, it's not all right, of course it can be even better – I very much hope that this women's budget will contribute to this. Women have a huge potential for performance, ladies and gentlemen, that is probably undisputed, because the women bring their achievements into the family, in society and in the workplace, and they stop as if they were “poors of poverty”, I find more than worrying and sad. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This potential for benefits, the self-responsibleness of women in all areas: both in the case of domestic employment – unfortunately not socially insured – and also in the case of out-of-house employment, where many are not paid accordingly, I am with you. However, economic growth in recent years has shown quite clearly that this economic growth and this positive development in Austria would not have been possible without the support of women. At last we should be proud of this: proud that we have such women in the country! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] High house! It has long been time to shake off, overcome and promote traditional role models of women and men, taking into account and promoting their strengths. This women's budget, which, of course, has been established in consultation with the social partners, enables improvements to be made under the National Action Plan. I am very curious about how it will eventually be in one year in the debate, in the current debate and in the legislative period. I know. No house, no road will be built in a year or in a month, depending on. This too is only the beginning of gender budgeting, even here we are only taking the first important and right steps by anchoring the gender budgeting in all sectors. Since the women's budget has been increased by 14 percent, I would like to congratulate you, Mrs Federal Minister, on the success of the negotiations with Finance Minister Pröll, for it is not easy to keep such a budget in times like this. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say quite frankly, ladies and gentlemen, if I had a female budget which was used exclusively for women's education and training, and most of which would not flow into institutions and institutions for the protection and assistance of beaten women, from harassed women who are physically and psychologically ill. It is a shame that I must admit that it is still necessary to use such large budgetary chunks exactly in this area. A women's budget should be able to look into the future, to master the present and to offer future-oriented opportunities to further support and promote women's achievements and also to protect families and children accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I believe that we can use this women's budget to implement tangible improvements for women in all ages at all levels in all federal states. Ladies and gentlemen! Whether budget increase, whether with or without national action plan, we will be measured by women not by the figures and words, but above all by our actions.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32154	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32177	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Even though I am chairman of the fan club of Dorothea Schittenhelmbin, as Mr Molterer has told me now, I have to contradict her very vehemently on the things she has said about the Court of Auditors and the President of the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] The Court of Auditors is not a party political institution, and the President of the Court of Auditors does not have a party political role, but he has to think further, he has to give us suggestions on how to better manage things, and this must also be accepted by the communities. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shot helmet]] I've been a mayor for 12 years, but I was a councillor, I was a councillor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I know there are very many committed mayors, councillors and officials, but there are also some black sheep, and therefore I am very happy when the control is extended and if one can also stop these black sheep. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: Black sheep already!]] [[Abg. Brosz: But there are some red sheep too!]] This is not a fallacy of the communities, absolutely not, for that I stand, and therefore we should really leave the church in the village! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Let's be glad if the control is good and right! What if the Court of Auditors did not show us exactly the way in the field of health reform where we could go, where we could save in the system? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] – I don’t want to miss that in any way! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear audience at the gallery! A lot has already been said about the women's budget. The women's budget is one, as Mrs Bundesminister explained, which was raised by about 14 per cent, but it is also one, I say, without any real design possibilities. As you yourself have said, Mrs Federal Minister, and also in the Committee: You inform a lot, you demand a lot, and your main task is mainly to coordinate between the individual ministries, and you actually do very little concrete action. Some of them, which are certainly important, concern the maintenance of intervention agencies against violence, the protection of victims or also of the family advisory services. But – please understand me correctly! – We would actually not need a ministry or a minister of our own, because that could also be assigned to other ministries and established there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Silhavy:... important!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Where's the lazy man?]] What I miss from you, Mrs Federal Minister, is that you really are dealing with the specific concerns and concerns of women, and in this regard the last social report shows us, and you have certainly read it very carefully, that just single women fall into that group that is very vulnerable to poverty, and some 27 percent of single women are vulnerable to poverty. I have missed, for example, that you have taken your veto against the so-called tax reform, because especially those women who have a small income and therefore do not pay taxes that are consistently single mothers have no profit from the depreciation of child care costs, while the costs for child care for them are as high or as low as for all the others who pay taxes. I also miss your appeal that something is finally happening to improve the maintenance advance. Here, the People's Procuratorate – and I would like to thank you very much for this – has again made criticisms and once again pointed out that there is already a final report: There is a 2006 final report, it is available, and nothing is done. It is and has not been done, except that in 2007 the then Federal Minister Bures said that there would be massive improvements, and that 2008 the then and current State Secretary Marek said that she was going to make an excuse for the then Minister of Justice Berger, in order to be able to do so. And now, in 2009? – At least you haven't announced anything, you promised nothing, but there is silence, you don't hear anything. This is about 50,000 children each year who are affected by it, for which the federal government also spends a lot of money, but ultimately the money does not arrive at the right time where it is needed quickly and unbureaucratically. That is why we also submitted two requests from the BZÖ, in 2007 and now in the budget debate, that the maintenance advance should come to children in line with age, need-taking, rapid and unbureaucratic terms with families, mothers, and that it should also be considered whether as a state, as a public institution is not generally submitted and the money is then reclaimed accordingly. – Here, Mrs Federal Minister, I see absolute need for action! I really followed your speech very closely and thought I might have come up with something concrete, but there were only nice words, announcements, lip confessions, and this – I can't hear it anymore – coordination. It is true that you have no task other than to coordinate, but I think that if you budget € 10 million for that, in the end you will also be € 10 million too much. I expect that in this area, where there is a real real concern about a real problem, your side is now being really pressured, and I hope that you will not leave the children and, above all, the mothers in the rain. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32311	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32343	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haubner, I do not fully understand you insofar as you know that the current amendment to the Family Law specifically regulates the issue of maintenance and that the Minister of Women has made a very substantial contribution to these improvements. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Announced! Announced!]] And if we are about to decide on these improvements – there is now a corresponding proposal in the government containing these massive improvements – then the Minister of Women has certainly been very much involved in this, as has the Minister of Justice and, above all, its predecessor, who has set out the draft law. So I would really ask you to let a little bit of materiality take place and not want to look at things here, which simply and simply do not vote! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Schittenhelm mentioned it – I can say that because much of what she has said here is in discussion: Any prevention of violence and the women's houses that you have cut here are, of course, an objective of all of us, as I believe. And if you have announced your support, just as many others of you have, this shows that we can actually implement effective improvements in this regard in order to really fight violence in the family and violence in general. On the occasion, I may say the following: There is a discussion on the right to charge, which is now not directly related to the Supreme Institutions, but to the judicial system, where it is a matter of providing a fee for the right to visit. The discussions are still being held, and perhaps we will be able to find a solution to a very difficult question, yet to achieve a breakthrough until the end of the week. With regard to the appeal to all, in particular to the EIA's colleagues, that we are putting forward a reasonable solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also very grateful for the increase in the asylum court. It's necessary, we've heard it here. At the Constitutional Court, 19 posts are increased, because this is very important, because we need rapid procedures here that quickly create legal certainty. They know that this is not only about fortification, but ultimately it is also about the fact that organised crime is seeking, above all, those countries as target countries, where all these procedures take particularly long. A very short comment: I would like to thank the government, especially the Minister of the Interior, for the fact that much of what was actually under – I am sorry to say this to God, and there is an occasion for it – the then Minister of the Interior Strasser was destroyed during his work as Minister of the Interior. I believe that it is also good – the police reform was addressed – to discuss a reform of the reform in order to improve the situation. The Minister of the Interior has declared herself accordingly. I think that if we read in the newspapers that the then Minister of the Interior of Strasser has been told about a mayor in an interview, “I’m going to cash it, the dogling,” this shows a sort of attitude that may have appeared in the ministry at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer]] I would like to see such people – whoever, Mr Amon, perhaps you have an influence on it – not in the way they seem to be doing, and perhaps even if there is a change here, we can look more positively into the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32414	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32435	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Before I comment on the subject of media, a few comments on Mrs Schittenhelm, who seems to be rather panicked by the vote of several colleagues from the ÖVP, although only the word “control” in Parliament falls. That's where the levels of excitement suddenly rise! – Exactly, it works again: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] The word “control” has fallen, and in the back of the ÖVP the levels of excitation are increasing. With the President of the Court of Auditors, we should discuss the likely need to increase the budget if the level of excitement corresponds to what would be necessary for control. But the point is that you're standing here and saying there's no problem. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – The level of excitement fits again. “Control” – and the ÖVP jumps up. If, from the speaker's point of view, there is no need for control, everyone who has been following the media reports in recent months must shout up and say: What are these statements? We know of numerous speculation transactions in the communities. We know that there has also been an attempt to use public funds to manage money over speculation, which has partly been done properly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Mr Amon, it is no wonder that Mr Schittenhelm is so nervous at this point. For if you are using Lower Austria, you need not only to look at the municipal budgets, but also to look at the national budget. Mr Sobotka – Her State Council – has operated casino capitalism for many years in the state government and has highly speculatively charged public housing funds on the financial markets. [[towards ÖVP]] And then the colleagues from the ÖVP are going to speak here and say that there is no need for control. I must therefore say that you currently have a rather large deficit in the perception of these problems. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Schittenhelm – I think she's not in the hall now; at least I don't see her – may I be directed by Mr Kogler: If you want to send his speech to the mayors, he'll be grateful for it. Support for public work, when it comes to control and transparency, cannot harm the EIA either. I am now coming to the media chapter after media secretary Ostermayer is here today. You can also talk about something that is not in the budget. There was indeed – this is an open secret – a debate at the government negotiations on how to deal with the exemption from fees at the ORF; otherwise, the talk is that this budget has been made to combat the economic crisis to meet it. In the field of media, one has to note, has been relatively little made. If the digitisation fund, which is no longer so necessary, is right, erases and re-transforms the money, it is not about additional budgetary resources, but about it. The ORF has a loss of about €60 million per year, resulting in the fact that the exemptions from fees, which are of course justified and necessary in social policy, are not recovered from the budget, but are ultimately missing from the resources of the ORF. And that's where you see the order of magnitude. If we were to ignore the particular situation of the economic crisis, which certainly also led to a loss of revenue, a balanced budget would already be possible, because the exemption of fees corresponds to the amount of the loss. – In this respect, we are still waiting for measures. Press promotion is a separate chapter. If you look at the newspapers, browse them, look at their size as well as the ads, you realize that in the media industry, fire is currently on the roof that the economic crisis there is full that the advertising market has broken in. Therefore, the question arises whether there is also a need to make something supportive in the transition. For example, I think about it – there you can discuss the specific implementation; a consideration of France – also newspaper subscriptions for young people, offering to young people, in order to also promote the newspaper industry. This could also be considered for Austria. Moreover, if you look deeper, there are things that are not attacked. Press promotion is about €7 million per year in the daily newspaper sector. Of this, €2.3 million goes to two party newspapers that still exist in Austria, one of the last Mohican editions; one of them in the red area, the “Kärntner Zeitung”, and one in the black area. Last week, colleague Grossruck was very proud that he was apparently referring his information mainly from the “Volksblatt” from Upper Austria – and he apparently even believes what is in it. [[Abg. Grandruck: This is the truth!]] – Yes, the truth; I know that is the truth. For these two party newspapers, one third of the Austrian press promotion goes on it, for two party newspapers that probably have a few thousand readers! This is indirect party funding and not anymore! Mr Zinggl rightly agreed that there should be a million for non-commercial media throughout Austria. This is what the “Oberösterreichische Volksblatt” has to offer alone, and that is what the “Kärntner Zeitung” receives on its own – as a party newspaper. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] So there is obviously money when it comes to financing our own interests. If you look at what else happens, you have to take a critical note – even if you have to say, in the time when the BZÖ and the “F” were in the government, there was also a lot of funding through the ministries – that there is no support for the independent press, that on the other hand, however, the cooperations with the ministries are booming, which is exclusively the case to secure reporting, to buy, to obtain friendly reporting. And this is a form of media policy that we do not share at all. This is not about independent media, but about persuading and saying: There is nothing about the budget, but if proper reporting is done within the meaning of the government, we can talk about cooperation in all areas! – This has nothing to do with independent media promotion! In this context, there is clearly a need from your side to think and not to make party policy, but to pursue media policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32511	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32532	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear Ladies and Dear Lord of the People's Procuratorate! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the crowd lines! As a member of the Court of Auditors, I would like to deal with the Court of Auditors as part of the Chapter on the Supreme Institutions. In principle, the budget for the Court of Auditors can be satisfied – Mr President Moser agreed with it in the Committee's deliberations. In 2009, €31.6 million will be available, 2010 will be €28.8 million, for a staff of 328 employees. I would like to stress that the Court of Auditors is supporting the savings measures of the Federal Government through far-reaching reluctance in the personnel sector. In recent years, the number of planning sites has been reduced from 345 to 328. In addition, the Court of Auditors is seeking to avoid exploiting the full potential of planning sites. For example, it will contribute at least €600 000 annually to the consolidation objective of the Federal Government. The MBA training programme Public Auditing, introduced in 2006, is very welcome, which is offered at the WU Vienna in cooperation with the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors. The graduates thus receive at university level a highly qualified training for public financial audit and are thus predestined for the activity in the Court of Auditors. The complexity of the tests has increased significantly in recent years. We recognize this also in the marked increase in the number of cross-sectional checks and the means used for doing so. New strategies such as follow-up tests are a proven means of increasing the enforcement of recommendations. However, implementation of the recommendations depends not only on the quality of the Court of Auditors and its reviews, but also on the willingness of the audited bodies. A country comparison shows that the implementation morale is very different. As a Upper Austrian, I am pleased that Upper Austria is the model country that implements 62 percent of the Court of Auditors' recommendations. Lower Austria is 39 per cent, Vienna is 38 per cent, Styria is 36 per cent – and in the end, Burgenland is the country that has neither implemented nor promised implementation with more than half of all Court of Auditors recommendations. With regard to administrative optimization and efficiency, it must be an incentive for countries to comply with the Court of Auditors' requirements quickly. The Court of Auditors' online services have also taken a significant development: The access to the homepage has increased in just two years. In 2008, the Court’s website recorded nearly 250 000 contacts. Not to be forgotten is also the international audit activity of the Court of Auditors, together with the European Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors in the neighbouring countries. Ladies and gentlemen, one more word on the tests in the municipalities with less than 20 000 inhabitants: If you look at the legal bases and the audit practices in the individual federal states, you see, as President Moser has said, considerable differences. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] For me, it is primarily the countries that are required to create the same conditions here. In total, a large number of examinations of the municipalities are already taking place today. In Upper Austria, there are four institutions, including the examination of the audit committee of the municipality itself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] I therefore see no reason, like my previous speakers from the ÖVP, to create another audit body. [[Call: That's not surprising for us now.]] Dear Mr. Zanger, you have called the mayor "Wunderwuzzi". I am mayor myself and do not call myself “Wunderwuzzi ” with God. The basis of my action is the principle set out in the Upper Austrian Community Regulations of a economical, economic and useful management of municipal business. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And compliance with this principle is already being examined, as has been said, by four bodies. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why four?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to close without appreciating the excellent work of the Court of Auditors' staff. The members of the Parliamentary Committee of the Court of Auditors can again and again convince themselves of the rigorous implementation of their extremely responsible activities. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32612	Mrs Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32634	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Faymann, as already last week at the general debate, shines with constant absence. He is probably on one of his journeys to decide the future of Europe, but please, however. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Together with Faul!]] Now to the women's budget: In principle, we should discuss what the Ministry of Women understands as women's policy. [[Abg. Grosz: That's probably where the Chancellor took the Faul, because the Faul isn't here either!]] I know, of course, that the gender demagogens of green and red will tear my speech in the air shortly, but it has to be said: If the Ministry of Women becomes a starting point of ideologically left-wing gender-stracts, who try to deny the biological differences of the sexes in a feminist way – very well, Mr. Grosz, so I have still had good success – and to beg for equality between men and women – always with rest! Then every euro that flows into this women's ministry is absolutely one euro too much. [[Abg. Grosz: Not biology again!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] [[Abg. Grosz: But don't ask for a story lecture now!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Learn history, Mr Grosz, this is always important, believe me! It's not mine. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Rather, a genuine change in values in the family ministry should be sought. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The work of the woman as a mother and housewife must finally be recognised socially and financially. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Therefore, we demand a real salary for mothers, for they contribute infinitely to our society. What we also need in the future are self-confident women and men, for whom it is absolutely natural to express a desire for children, as well as the air to breathe. [[Green call for tender]] Of course, money has to be used for this, and there has to be a change in social policy. One example that cannot be fully taken over is France, where there is at least a reproduction rate of almost 2.3 percent. We still have much less there at 1.2 percent. [[New call to the Greens.]] And absolutely counterproductive in this context, of course, is the promotion of every emancentum and also the legalization of the homo-ehe. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, Mrs. Federal Minister, I always have the impression that your budget of the vultures is floating, because a budget of €9 million for women throughout Austria is simply far too low. Unfortunately, your Federal Chancellor granted you only €1.24 million more for 2009. However, this will be reduced again in 2010. That means that we really cannot impose proper measures! One point from your catalogue of measures, which I should really like to highlight as very positive, is the expansion of intervention agencies, violent centres and the establishment of emergency homes for those affected by forced marriage in Austria. I have to say – as I can quote Mrs Schwentner; and I am very proud that you, Mrs Colleague, have taken this word into your mouth at all – that, according to statistics of the Association Orient Express, every fourth Turkish girl in Austria is affected by forced marriage. There is even a book by a sociologist from Hamburg, who goes even further and speaks of any second marriage between Muslims being forced. I think it is extremely important that these emergency apartments be expanded, but unfortunately the financial framework is not available either. As you have told me in your written reply, Mrs Minister, you also need the help of the Secretary of State and the Minister of the Interior. A second point is gender budgeting. To this end, I must say: The sense of gender budgeting is that women and men can and should benefit equally from the resources of our society and the opportunities of our society. Unfortunately, this is not the case, because it is always the women who are in underpaid part-time employment and are therefore too much affected by the fact that they have to leave their profession. Dear Mrs. Minister, if you want to be very successful in your field of duty, then forget the left gender policy and recognize the activity of housewife as a profession and promote the mother-in-law! We from FPÖ are clear and clear for equality between men and women, but absolutely against left gender policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32772	Mrs Lueger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32794	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! [[Abg. Grosz: Where is Mr. Faul?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Abg. Grosz: Where's Mr. Faul?]] Mrs Winter, although I originally did not want to speak on your comments, I now have a great need. [[Abg. Grosz: We would like to know where Mr Faul is!]] Obviously, you still have not understood what gender budgeting and gender mainstreaming mean. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is not about denying men and women, of the sex, but about the same access. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] – But maybe it’s sometime that far. But I would now like to come to my actual statements. Today we are discussing the budget for the Federal Chancellor's Office, where the Asylum Court added in July 2008, which has led to the structural acceleration of all applications. Since the establishment of the asylum court, massive savings have been expected throughout the federal budget, especially in the Federal Service. The large delay in asylum proceedings could already be reduced significantly: from 23,600 cases open in June 2008 to 17,400 cases in March 2009. The President of the Asylum Court Mag. Perl is confident that a complete reduction will be possible by 2010 at the latest by 2011. [[Abg. Grosz: Where's the Faul?]] Of course, it is important for the asylum court – and the Minister of Finance has mentioned this in his budget speech – that his staff stand. And it is very gratifying that by 2010 the number of planning sites will be increased by 105. But especially for me as a youth speaker, it is very important that youth employment is also focused on the Federal Chancellery. [[Abg. Grosz: That's the woman Rudas, isn't it?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Isn't that the woman Rudas?]] 300 new apprentices in 50 different apprenticeships, which means a quadruple of the number of apprentices. An additional incentive for further training will also be financial support during teaching. Another very, very important concern is the continuation of children's and youth emergency numbers 147 – Council on Wire. The child and youth emergency call, which was launched in 1987, has a 92 percent awareness of the target group of 14-19-year-olds, and this corresponds to a level of awareness comparable to that of Coca Cola. Some 120,000 telephone consultations and more than 4,000 online consultations are carried out, and 147 is the most selected emergency number in Austria according to the Mobile Communications Forum. Unfortunately, the future is not entirely secure. “147 – Council on Wire” is currently being cared for by a team of 15 professional psychologists, psychotherapists, educators, life and social advisers and a lawyer. As the only Austrian emergency call number for young people, “147 – Council on Wire” is available 24 hours a day, regardless of whether from the fixed network or the mobile phone. Consultations on issues such as love, education, school, but also violence in the family are asked. The variety of contacts shows how important and how indispensable “147 – advice on wire” has become for young people. It should therefore also be preserved.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32921	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e32957	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! One thing to say to women is my personal impression: For the first time in my home community, I made a woman a deputy mayor. The criticism of it did not come from us men, but from the women! The women said: Is that gonna be okay? Is she gonna do this? Is that all right? I think the women should work on themselves a little more. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the topic of National Council: € 130 million is the annual budget of legislation. It is not, as I say, the problem, whether a few euros more or less. In my opinion, the conversion is also a very important fact. If one can prove that money is being handled well and economically, it will be understood by the citizens because I mean democracy has its prize. But it would not be understood by the citizens if they looked at the efficiency of this House and if they looked at how it works here. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr. Faul!]] I've been in here for more than six months now. When I draw the comparison with my community, I believe that the small simple council is much more effective and efficient. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Voicer: That's right!]] Since we work in the communities so economically and efficiently, I do not understand the colleagues from the ÖVP. I want to be checked. I'd like to show you my good work. However, I am also interested in learning to examine, to get counter-examples and to make community work even more effective. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I have another problem. Since each audit is a member of my local administration for weeks, I expect that when we are audited by the Court of Auditors, we will also receive more money to increase our staff through the income adjustment. That's what I think. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But now again to the economy in the National Council or to the efficiency of this House. I think we all know how many hours we sit inside and discuss and that very, very much of it is said for nothing that anyone listens. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Well!]] If you look in the rows, you often don't even sit in 50 Members. The media are no longer interested in these hourly and day-long discussions. I think we all know that decisions have already been taken before the Council of Ministers and that, in fact, the government's colleagues only have the task of spreading this, and we have the task of criticizing it. That is why we should all work to ensure that this National Council is able to regain more weight and work more efficiently, that we strengthen minority rights, that, as opposition parties, we also have the right, in the subcommittees, to present Members, too, that in the small control committees, we really have this power that we need for control. I just remember that we would have liked to have invited the Minister of Finance or the former Minister for Infrastructure Faymann to the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, but the government parties have very well prevented this. If we make the money available for the reconstruction of this House, the plenary room, it should also be our goal to start today with the recasting of the Rules of Procedure, so that with the entry into the new plenary room, real, active parliamentaryism takes place again and the population can again form a good opinion from us.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33050	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33072	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Estimated members of the People's Procuratorate! Dear guests at the gallery! High house! In the Strategy Report on the Financial Framework Act, the steady increase in funds in the area of law and security can easily be followed, and thus this Federal Government also takes turns. On the one hand, it provides stability and follows the people's desire for greater security, but on the other hand it also strives to achieve a more efficient and slimmer administration. Especially in the area of Constitutional Courts, Home Affairs and Justice, we have a percentage increase. Especially during the last legislative period of SPÖ and ÖVP, we have managed to reach a discharge from the Constitutional Court and People's Procuratorate through the Asylum Court. There has also been an improvement in the tense situation in the asylum field. Since the fourth quarter of 2007, the number of open procedures, i.e. the volume of residues, has been reduced from over 25 000 to almost 21,000. It has continued to decline. This means that the backpack of procedures that have migrated from the independent asylum Senate to the asylum court could already be reduced by 25 percent by the end of March 2009. New procedures are now being completed almost 50 percent within the first six months. Something special are the “Dublin cases”. This is the responsibility of Austria or the respective EU country to carry out a clarification procedure. In these cases, the average duration of proceedings is only 10 to 14 days. A total of 2,729 cases were first decided and confirmed in proceedings. 898 cases were first corrected, 44 percent of which were granted refugee status. The new proposal of the European Commission needs to be discussed in depth, particularly with a view to the clear improvements and efficiency improvements in the handling of asylum applications by the establishment of the Asylum Court. Despite strong media criticism from a wide variety of sides in Austria, the European Parliament's revised draft directive has already implemented some important amendments to the Commission's draft. Firstly, minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers should be laid down. It's supposed to be a worthy man. Life is guaranteed and comparable living conditions are created in all Member States. Secondly, A proportional increase in European funds to cover improvements in relation to the minimum standards for reception cost-effectively, especially in those Member States whose asylum system is subject to special and disproportionate pressure due to the geographical and demographic situation. Thirdly, Member States shall ensure that information and information is provided in several languages so that the applicant understands this. One thing I still have to hold here: There are also areas of problem where there is no doubt that further discussions are necessary. There will certainly be some discussions on access to the national labour market after six months at the latest. And the second is: Effect on the existing ‘Dublin Regulation’. There should be no evasion of this principle here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33129	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33174	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen here in the series of seats! I would like to take the opportunity to share some basic ideas on equal treatment in this item on the agenda. It is of course for us liberals that the rank of women in our society must be completely equal, and there can be no cancellations. But I would like to point out – and that is something that is very important to me – that successful femininity and motherhood should not fall apart. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thank you. Therefore, a good equal treatment policy must take into account the different gender needs. We therefore reject the introduction of gender mainstreaming as the guiding principle of politics and society, because it does not naturally want to recognize and abolish the differences between men and women and wants to create a new person. Unfortunately, I have to say to you that you have obviously not read the programmes, because that is exactly the definition, and that is exactly how it stands inside. [[in the direction of the Abg. Silhavy]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Gender mainstream is a political program that is pervasive of the feasibility and formality of man, and it is therefore also a totalitarian approach. You just need to look at what Engels and Marx said. They were already 1884 for the abolition of the family and the similar integration of man and woman into the work process. [[Abg. Oillinger: Marx has already died!]] So it is, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialists! And they were also for child rearing to take place exclusively in state institutions. Radical American feminists, such as Shulamith Firestone, have especially emphasized and meant that women must be freed from the burden of child war. I can only say that one can be glad that these visions failed, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But the EU has raised gender mainstreaming in the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1999 on a legally binding principle. Gender mainstreaming is to be whipped through in accordance with the top-down principle, i.e. from top to bottom, and that means that all decisions will be subject to a ceiling specified by the top and therefore, if you think about it carefully, a completely undemocratic approach will be chosen. The official objective is to provide for gender equality. If you look at the matter a little more closely, you can see that the ideology inside, most of it is ideologists, very likely you think that you are made a woman and a man first. You know all of this, you've probably read it for decades, so is it. [[in the direction of the Abg. Parent]] It means being made a woman and a man in society. It is not a biological fact that there are men and women, but it is the result of a forced learning programme. And the men and women were so different because they were different from society... [[Calls of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Yeah, you don't recognize it. It is said that the roles of society would be imposed, and the goal would have to be to avoid these stereotypical role images. Read the program! One should avoid these stereotypes of role images. How do you want to avoid this, Mrs Silhavy? How do you want to avoid a mother being a mother and a father being a father? That's not a part of it! They're father and mother! I can't give up such a role picture! Of course, in all the studies that are of value in our society, it is also pointed out that family has a very high priority. Many studies have found that women also want to get back into work only if they are sure that the children are well removed. This is also the case in studies. This is very important for us liberals, because we believe that precisely these values are necessary so that we have a future in which a successful co-existence between man and woman is possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is to say, we liberals want to promote and strengthen families, and we want to do so because this is quite simply important for the common good and also for the well-being and for the education of our children. The family brings the necessary security and also holding. This is also important for living together between man and woman, because it is simply based on mutual respect, trust and love. We are in favour of the freedom of choice of the sexes so that the form of life can be sought individually, and it must be ensured that when you decide to have children and raise them, it is not a disadvantage. Successful femininity and motherhood must not drift apart.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33272	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33293	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Madam President, I would like to try again: It's true, yes, only women can have children. Yeah, it's true, only women can breast-feed children, but that's it. All that comes after that, women and men can divide together. So men and women can care for children alike. Maybe we can agree on that. It's not like what you spell out. I believe that you have still not really understood what these role models mean, which is socially influenced, which is lived on in society. This is not related to whether you are a woman or a man, but it is what is perpetuated. Mrs Gartelgruber has also criticized the disadvantages of women in re-entry, has criticized the poverty of single parents and the lack of so-called freedom of choice. Mrs. Gartelgruber, that's right! And your proposal is therefore: Housewives' wages. I think this is an interesting role because it is precisely this housewives' wage that perpetuates the uneven relations between women and men. It is precisely because women and men are still being treated differently in our society that a housewife's wage would only mean an extension. Since women are exclusively or almost exclusively responsible for domestic and family work, it is precisely because of this that re-entry is so difficult. It is precisely because of this that women are disadvantaged in vocational education and training, and that is why the difference in income is so great. And that's why they're more affected by poverty. Women, Mrs Gartelgruber, are socially disadvantaged in this respect, which has nothing to do with biotechnology at all. Men are spared from double taxation and preferred on the labour market. [[Abg. Grosz: Like Mr. Faul, two salaries get and nothing works!]] Welcome in reality, Mrs. Gartelgruber, that's what this is all about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are working for housewives' wages, you also say that you still want to prevent the sharing of partners, you want to continue the uneven income and continue to perpeate the dependence on women on men. I think that's actually what you want to say, you just don't trust to formulate it. That's the problem. But you can calm down with it, we understand what you mean by it anyway. How seriously you take women's policy is shown at the poster of the Freedom Students' ring, where women's policy is disguised as a pute in a bikini. [[The speaker shows the copy of a poster.]] Quite honestly, I have rarely seen something more discriminatory, more humble, more deplorable about women's policy. That's a special treat. I think you should talk to them a little bit, not me, that would be more sensible, because it is an incredible scandal that such a thing is put in the election campaign. That concludes my remarks. I don't think we're gonna be able to agree, but that's not a problem for me. The fact that this government is taking clear steps with the Minister with the National Action Plan, including with regard to the maintenance advance, where reform work is currently under way, is the real policy. And that's what we're talking about eliminating the inequalities and not emphasizing what you want. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33345	Now Mrs. Volksanwaltin Dr. Brinek is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33366	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. Volksanwaltin Stoisits! Mr. Volksanwalt Dr. Kostelka! The only and real here. [[Abg. Grosz: Don't forget Mr. Volksanwalt Stadler!]] We're just dealing with the budget. The People's Procuratorate will also be able to end up with a good budget for the next two years, even with a view to the 2013 budget path. This is, as has been said, a basis which can also be seen in the light of the fact that, of course, we are committed to the budgetary policy of the Federal Government, because it is also about citizens and about measures for the generation of the future. We will, of course, also be involved in the implementation of the personnel plan by 2013. We look forward to making the global budget – the new budgetary conditions are looking forward to this – very confident, it is about real-life management, it is no longer about what, of course, has ended in a budget overrun law. Personally, I can say that I have felt relatively well and at home in this world of budgeting since the University Law 2002. This also means that decisions are made in the bodies, for which money is spent. I am therefore very glad that the lawyers and the public prosecutor have, of course, agreed on the core task for absolute focus and at the same time see where synergies, where there are still savings, are possible in order not only to carry out the core task, but to further develop it and to be there for the citizens, for the complainants, to meet all the expectations you have already articulated. I would also like to express my pleasure at the fact that today and the last time in the debates, Parliament has articulated the desire for enhanced cooperation. We'd love to follow that. It is also about further expanding our international activities; the expected General Secretariat of the IOI has often been mentioned. We want to carry out all the tasks we consider necessary with the available budget. The contribution of the popular lawyers, Kostelka, Stoisits and Brinek, is also the one to give up the salary increase together with the politicians and thus to make a small or modest contribution to fiscal consolidation. I would now like to address a few points of debate here in the House. Mr Windholz, for example, has raised the issue of complaints once again. I would like to refer to the Committee's debate where we are given the opportunity to look at the various cultures of complaint and see whether and at what pace we can reach the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, as it is enshrined in the Lisbon Treaty, that there is a right to good administration. It should then no longer be dependent on a geographical or other gap or on a culture, as is the case with complaints. That is only a comment; we have already considered another date for the Committee debate. Member of the European Parliament Amon has addressed the issue of unbureaucratic aid. – Yes, you see from the statistics that we are dealing with the introductions of traditional test procedures, but you can also provide advice, help and information, although this, so to speak, does not meet the core task. With this information, citizens go to their lawyer and at least consider further steps. Mr Grossruck, I would like to say that we are not yet empowered to examine Telekom matters and related policies. If this is what the High House wants and gives us the order, we will gladly accept the order. [[Abg. Oellinger: There we are!]] However, I would like to draw attention to this: What about the other providers? [[Abg. Oillingers: These too! Everyone!]] We are happy to deal with these things when we are commissioned to do so. We don't have him right now. I would like to give Mr Zinggl the information – in addition to his other contributions that have not directly affected us – that it is correct: Yes, as I have already indicated, the popular lawyers and lawyers, just as they are present here and their work is anchored in the federal constitution, take care of citizens – and the courts take care of Mr. Mag. Stadler. I look forward to constructive, committed work and cooperation with Parliament in the next budget years and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33451	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33472	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! I particularly welcome the two lawyers Stoisits and Brinek as well as the popular attorney Mag. Kostelka and not least our Lawyers in Brussels, Mag. Ewald Stadler, whom I can warmly welcome here in the Hohe Haus. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Now it's said, now you can go again!]] After all these debates, I come to the crucial point, which is that we should strive to use the existing budget resources efficiently, no matter what the place of business, especially in times of crisis. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I now ask you whether this is efficient: Is it efficient to charge tax money, a lot of tax money to a Member named Faul, who is a school director in Styria, as a school director never is there, but nevertheless 75 percent of his salary, which is 3 500 € per month, in addition to his deputies of over 8 000 €? Is that the efficient use of fiscal resources you mean? – We don’t think so! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Incredible! A Privilegian Rider!]] This is a waste of tax money, that is tax-money abuse, and it is a scandal that, despite €8 000 Gage here, despite €3,500 Gage in Styria is not currently in school outside – we have called – or here in the House. That is to say, Mr Faul does all his credit to his name, and he is neither at one place nor at another, but he collects money on both sides. This is immoral, which makes honourable Members lazy, apart from his speech here a few days ago, which was inadmissible. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Faul will live up to his name! He's a true social-democratic excavator.]] Second topic: efficient use of means of taxation. And there I am now at the People's Procuratorate. Mrs. Volksanwaltin Brinek, you're paying a State Secretary's salary, so you get a lot of money from the taxpayer, and you take care of this big salary for such Lappalia and Kinkerlitzchen as a lawsuit against the BZÖ and against Ewald Stadler on the basis of advertisements we write in “Post by the Public Prosecutor”? I ask you: Don't you have anything better to do? Is this your contribution to this high salary as an attorney for the Austrians? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I tell you, Mrs. Volksanwalt Brinek, it shouldn't be, but you should do what Ewald Stadler did. Look You're looking at his balance sheet! The most successful popular lawyer in Austria in the last decades. [[Ironic cheerfulness of the Volksanwälter Dr. Brinek and of representatives of the ÖVP.]] Over 17 000 cases successfully processed, the highest TV quotas, the highest switching rates! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP that you are laughing now, I think it is wonderful. I am quoting a mayor of the ÖVP. Do you know what he said and wrote about Mr. Stadler? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – I would like to show you the letter, colleague. – He wrote – I quote –: Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! You're the best popular lawyer of all time for me. - Quote. That writes an ÖVP mayor! The “Best Public solicitor of All Times ”! We thank you very much for this election recommendation. Mrs. Brinek, if you once do what Volksanwalt Stadler has done in his time, you can stand here and swing big speeches – but at present you are a member of your ÖVP Party Secretariat! In view of the dispute between Straster and Karas, which continues again – Mrs Klasnic has now also asked Mr Karas – I understand that you can be instrumentalized by your own party for this EU election campaign. I am telling you, however, that it is not your duty as a Volksanwälter to do so, and that does not justify your State Secretary's content, which you are referring to. How ridiculous the whole thing is, this letter shows the financial procuratorship that came on your behalf. He also shows how ridiculous the measure you are setting here is. The BZÖ is asked – I quote – to eliminate posters, folder and other advertising products within 14 days, as far as the name Volksanwalt is used for you. - Quote. I'm telling you, you can be calmed, you can pack your Baldrian troops again, because this time limit means that we're 8 years old. June, i.e. one day after the EU election, the posters have to be removed. That's what we're happy to do! Finally, I tell you that you can read the next “post by the public prosecutor” in the newspapers tomorrow, because – that is my final sentence, and you, Mrs. Brinek, as a lawyer, have to know – the term “populator” is not a legal term, that is, you can also use the term “lawyer”. Ewald Stadler is not the only one who uses him, but he is the only one who, as the most successful popular lawyer, has the moral right to use this title, for who, if not he, is the true popular lawyer of the Austrians in Brussels?! - Thank you. [[Abg. Hornek: Repeater!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33609	Next speaker: Mrs Binder-Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33631	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Petzner, when you cut the salary debate, I really wonder if you are working here in the House for free – and I also think the word morale from the mouth of a BZÖ politician is very, very bold. [[Abg. Grosz: Faul has a jobless income!]] Mr Grosz, how was it in Schönbrunn yesterday? Good? - Wonderful! Ladies and gentlemen, now back to women's policy. It really separates us worlds even here in the House when it comes to women's policy concerns. Mrs Gartelgruber, I am convinced that the course is true with Minister of Women Heinisch-Hosek. First point. Second point: Mrs Winter, it would be very exciting for me once if you explained to me the voice 'left gender policy', because I cannot imagine what you understand. Third point: Mr. Linder, Vice-Citizens of Social Democracy are elected – and not “made”. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Sugar bakers make cakes, but politicians are not made! Ladies and gentlemen! The foreign exchange of the Minister for Women is intermixed, intermixed, above all, also mix with all the issues relevant to women's politics. These are cross-social, which are present in all social policy areas and therefore also to be taken into account and taken into account. I mean, an isolated women's policy would certainly not be targeting. The women's minister's budget is small, but fine. Many important projects, many of which support, support and, above all, re-establish women's institutions, are being promoted. I note Mr Haubner's statement that €10 million is too much for women's policy. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: I said exactly what!]] Mrs Haubner, the Austrian women have not deserved this, because in these institutions women find protection, they find advice, information and, above all, the right to do so. My foreign exchange, ladies and gentlemen, is that women's rights are human rights too – and this is also a priority work of our Federal Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, many tasks lie ahead of us. That has already been said, of course I support it. We are concerned that the implementation of women-related issues must be serious, thoughtful and, above all, permanent in the sense and in the interest of women. Equality between women and men, ladies and gentlemen, must become a matter of course in people's living together, in the field of politics and, above all, in the world of work. I'm holding on – at the end of the day –: In order to achieve economic equality between women and men, all relevant actors must make their contribution. For example, the paper of the social partners and the industrial association of October 2008. This offer for cooperation is gladly accepted and pursued.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33711	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33733	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! [[Abg. Where's Faul?]] Mr President of the Court of Auditors, whenever you appear here in the House, whether in the committee or here in plenary, it does not take a long time, and already the hottest debate is under way to examine the communities. I would really like for the communities that for all other matters of financing, especially in the current situation in which all revenue is down, the same interest was given and that there would also be such fine speeches as on the subject of municipalities. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wooger: That's right!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Advanced financial compensation!]] The fact that Mr Kogler is going about the communities and the officials there today has surprised me a little. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Selected municipalities in Styria!]] You were a councillor yourself. I think you should go back to the council once more to learn how highly qualified the work of the councils is. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] For exams themselves, ladies and gentlemen. The first problem there is simply the fact that there are nine different approaches. It is tested completely differently in every federal state. If I may report briefly about Upper Austria: Five times a year, the Audit Committee meets – compulsoryly – and the members of this Committee are very good on the road; they are not too stupid to do so. Once a year, the bra comes and checks the accounts. Furthermore, we have ongoing audits from the Financial Office, from the local health phone, which is also added. And then – and this is the problem in Upper Austria – we only have further examinations via political mandate either from the Landesaushof or from the municipal department, which is now called the Directorate for Interiors and Municipals. In the congregation where I was allowed to function for a long time, it was like this: In 2003 the Landeskondektionshof was there, the next year was already the municipal department. I can't imagine that this test is efficient. There an official sits in the municipality for two months without any qualification reduction and then sends his audit report to the municipal department of the country. This is done again, comes back to the bra and then comes to the municipality. The whole duration of the test is eight months. This cannot be efficient, especially if we all confess that it is not about punishment and examination, but rather about consulting and accompanying control. That would be the most important thing. If we talk about a new form of testing, then only on the condition that the tests become less and more efficient. I wonder why I have a county captain who sends an official so that the country can get a cover so that it goes back from the country to the county headquarters, and then the mayor or the community learns what's going on. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's what's done anyway!]] This is also a problem of administrative reform, ladies and gentlemen, which we should tackle as soon as possible. Unfortunately the flashing is already over, I still know a lot about this...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33835	You have a self-appointed speaking time, Mr President. You could talk for another 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33851	To your calls a little comment: The crocodile says hello!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33888	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33910	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. Volksanwälten! Mr. Volksanwalt! The issue of communities and how the communities should be reviewed will certainly continue to concern us in the coming weeks and months. In my opinion, it would also be important to extend the ban on speculation, as is the case in the West of Austria for communities, throughout Austria, so that events like Hartberg and others can be avoided. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Thank you for the applause, Mr Colleague. However, I would like to come to the Court of Auditors chapter. The Court of Auditors also had a ‘Elch test’. As a result of the restructuring measures that have taken place in the Court of Auditors over the last one and a half years, the Court of Auditors has also set a good example, not only as an institution examining other institutions. The conversion has been efficiently equipped and carried out by the costs and also by the resolution. For this, a warm praise from our side! It should be said that institutions can also learn from it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] During a weekend, all persons in the Court of Auditors who relocated staff and were then able to obtain their jobs and resume their work. Here too, an efficient and economical and very useful use. The Court of Auditors, too, is a clear example in the discussions on administrative reform and, on the other hand, does not support the recruitment of staff planning posts, but also does not suffer from work. This too is an important contribution. It is always necessary to ensure that work is designed efficiently and that employees are used efficiently. The Court of Auditors also suspends a peer review, i.e. it can also be examined by other international organizations, the Court of Auditors. This too is a good example. The work of the Court of Auditors is well-equipped with the budget for 2009 and 2010 and can thus be continued well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33970	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e33991	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! I would like to thank you very much for the positive opinions on the Court of Auditors and its staff and, of course, I would also like to take a brief look at the debates that have affected the Court of Auditors. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Mr Hornek invited the Court of Auditors to look at his community. I would like to do so, but we cannot do so because this does not allow constitutional conditions. [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] On the point, however, which is in the room, Mr Hornek has mentioned, namely the efficiency of control and the like, I would like to point out to the Court of Auditors – and that is its constitutional position – where transparency is not to the fullest extent and where it would be appropriate for international directives and standards to make the audit body in fact transparent. This is where he meant that a test instance should be removed and what one can do in the area. – It is difficult to do so, because in Austria, especially in the area of municipal examinations and in the area of local regulations, the regulations are extremely different and are handled very differently – as different as the supervision at national level is carried out. Mr Hornek also mentioned that he would pass on the audit report to the municipal council. There is an example from Leoben, where the control office only passed out of one head and only the mayor got the report, but not the municipal council. We have also carried out inspections in cities, where, for example, 0.5 full employment equivalents were involved in control tasks, where the control officers were partly used by 50 percent in the city's accounting, where, in part, the control officials were used as a writer for the control committee. They see, therefore, that the efficiency of control was not fully guaranteed and that there would be something to do very well. I can also point out the last case that appeared in the Burgenland. I would like to quote the President of the Association of Municipal Representatives, who says that he does not understand what happened. As a reason, he argues that the local authority has failed, because the previous intervention could have prevented greater damage; the local authority has failed to review the correction of the shortcomings it has already identified in 1996. – This is another point that shows that improvements are necessary. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No single case!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: AUA! ...control failed!]] [[Further calls.]] On another point, I would like to take a very brief look at Mrs Schittenhelm's speech, and I would like to thank her for emphasizing the Court of Auditors' reputation on and on its own behalf. [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I would just like to mention that the Court of Auditors has the motto ‘Independent, objective and effective’, and that is what we are living! If the Court of Auditors makes proposals and proposals which are supported to varying degrees by all parties, it is difficult to put in any way party policy or otherwise. I think it would be necessary, especially in the sign of the administrative reform, in the sign of necessary structural reforms, to hold the discussion in such a way that the problems come to the table, problems are put out of dispute and then solutions are sought or implemented from a wide range of approaches, with solutions always containing a certain compromise. [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and BZÖ.]] But one should not see measures with party political glasses at the beginning, because this would certainly prevent a solution that Austria needs. Regarding what has been said about the involvement of municipalities in the control competence, I would like to say briefly that Leopold Figl, President of the National Council, has already carried out the following on the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the Court of Auditors: “In addition, since the time of the establishment of our federal constitution (1920) the development has gone to entrust the Court of Auditors with the control of conduct for countries and communities” – “in carrying out this task, it is not the body of the National Council but of the country day concerned. [[Abg. Grosz: Yes, Leopold Figl!]] The Court of Auditors has thus become a guardian of the regulatory principle for the far-reaching financial economy of all our local authorities." [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] In this context, it is also inconceivable to quote university professor Dr. Hengstschäger, who executes – I quote –: [[Abg. May. Stadler: Also a BZÖler!]] ‘It is important that the conduct of 98.98 % of the Austrian municipalities is never checked by an independent and external control body. The amount of public funds available to a municipality and to which it bears depends, not on the number of inhabitants, but on other factors such as the economic structure of the municipality. The fact that the Court of Auditors' responsibility for controlling the conduct is not limited to the financial power, but solely to the population cannot be justified by any consideration of the facts." In this context, since today the Constitutional Court of Justice also deals with the budget chapter of the Supreme Institutions, I should also like to quote Mr. Universitätsprofessor Dr. Karl Korinek: “I would like to make an absolute plea for the comprehensive competence of the Court of Auditors.” [[Abg. May. Stadler: Also a BZÖler!]] “I consider this system to be very essential and in our system of connected, interconnected financial management, the financial compensation-related streams, to be the only way to compare them through the examination and evaluation of different institutions in the countries, municipalities, the federal government.” Finally, Professor Korinek: I think it is important to close the control gap in municipalities. - Quote. I hope to have documented that this should be a concern of all of us and therefore certainly have no place in party-political considerations. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e34122	The next speaker was Mr Fazekas. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e34144	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear People's Lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I would like to address the issue very briefly after your contribution to the debate as mayor and explain why this is necessary for serious discussion. There are simply certain factors that can always be seen differently in the local area than if a control body comes from somewhere else and has figures and facts to examine. In one example: Local authorities carry out social contracts in many areas, such as job placement, by taking up employees. This would never be justified by the economy, but it is an essential social function in the municipal fabric. These are circumstances which we have not yet addressed in this debate. That is why, I believe, we are not yet ready to agree on all matters. This has to be discussed very seriously, ladies and gentlemen. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now on the subject of Public Procuratorship: That is, I think, also very important and is a little too short today. Mr Petzner, when you refer here to the public prosecutor's duties in the public prosecutor's office as "Kinkerlitzchen" (Kinkerlitzchen) as "Kinkerlitzchen" (Kinkerlitzchen), you have to be perfectly clear that this also calls the concerns of the citizens who, with their legitimate concerns, turn to the public prosecutor's office as "Kinkerlitzchen" (Kinkerlitzchen)! [[Abg. Petzner: No, Mrs. President of the People's Procuratorate...!]] I hope everyone heard that too. [[Abg. Petzner: I said...!]] This is the opinion of the BZÖ, who wants to send the “famous” Mr. “Volksanwalt” to Brussels: the “Kinkerlitzchen” of the People’s Procuratorate. You will thank yourself! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: Stay with the truth!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] I am convinced that the People's Procuratorate is doing excellent work. The budget figures have been slightly increased; in times when the budget also needs to be shared, this is quite positive. I think that's how it works. I would also like to thank the people’s lawyers and the public prosecutor very much for their work, for the important tasks relating to the “Kinkerlitzchen” – as you call it from the BZÖ – for this is a task which is of immense importance for citizens. [[Abg. Petzner: You lie!]] So thank you very much! I believe that even more needs to be done through increased public relations to ensure that people have access to the public prosecutor's office, especially the young people, who, of course, with the "citizen's attorney" in the medium. [[Abg. Petzner: They say the untruth!]] Television should not get access through the Internet, through modern communication methods. [[Abg. Petzner: You say the untruth, Mr Cot.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Where's Mr. Faul?]] The establishment of the General Secretariat of the International Ombudsman Institute is important. This has an essential meaning for our country. I also believe that we should address the OPCAT provisions, the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, as provided for in the Government Convention. In this sense, I thank you very much and look forward to the further good cooperation. The 2008 report has already been completed, as it has worked very quickly. There has also been a rapid deadline on the part of the committees over the political groups. This is a sign that the work of the People's Procuratorate is also considered very important here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e34281	The next speaker was Mr Sacher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e34302	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Dear People's Lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! I should also like to address Mr Petzner briefly. Mr Petzner, when did today's sitting begin? - My knowledge at 9 o'clock. [[Abg. And where is Mr. Faul?]] I looked at the clock: Mr Stadler, who was praised by you, appeared for the first time today at 12.45 p.m. Mr Petzner, who is sitting in the glass house, should not throw stones! The stones turn out to be mudpatters, dear colleague Petzner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Mr President! “Slampatzen”!]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join the public prosecutors in thanking my previous speakers because, in the years of their existence, the public prosecutors have demonstrated themselves in an impressive way as an instance of justice and humanity, in which many citizens place the greatest confidence, I would like to say, in which they often put their last hope. In many matters of daily life, you are committed to the fair treatment of citizens. This is also taken into account by the budget. As one of those budget areas that receive an increase in resources, the Public Prosecutor's Office is equipped with €1.6 million more in 2009. This will be good for the citizens of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! This confidence, this popularity should not be abused. I can also say that there is someone here in the House who uses his ex-activity as an advertisement for his future task – in my opinion, however, he will not receive a mandate anyway! [[Abg. Grosz: What about Mr. Faul?]] [[Abg. Petzner: You don't know each other!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a misleading advertising with these ads. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper in progress, on the Abg. May. Stadler is pictured.]] In addition, she is just the opposite of what you, colleague Stadler, have done as a popular lawyer: use yourself for the right. You stand for the wrong! It's inhuman, these ads, these posters. As a colleague from the district that you have chosen as your residential district, since you have left Vorarlberg – perhaps a quick one – – now you are with us in Grafenegg, and you see your counterfee at every corner of the street – I can only tell you with this advertising for the EU election you are in the wrong corner! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e34406	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e34427	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Dear Members of the People's Procuratorate! High house! The women's policy of the BZÖ and the FPÖ has challenged me to comment here again, because I believe that it simply can't stand that way. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Gender mainstreaming means expanding the action repertoire of girls and boys, of women and men. For example, if 90 percent of young people choose the ten typical male and female apprenticeships, this should give us thought. We need a professional orientation in schools. Children need mothers and fathers, not only mothers, we know that very well in education and education. [[Aufgaben bei ÖVP and BZÖ as well as der Abg. Weinzinger.]] Students need teachers, so we are also looking for male folk teachers. That's also Gender Mainstreaming. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] To be a mother, to be a father, that is, not to be excluded from education, training and occupation, but to make both of them compatible. This is a good gender mainstreaming policy, that is to thank God a good government policy. We can only hope that you can never come to the government and that your disadvantage of women and men in that country can no longer be realized. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Motherhood does not protect against poverty. Motherhood is a value, Fatherhood is another value, and both enrich our society, but close the profession, close research, close many possibilities in life not out, which should not be restricted by a gender-specific view, but expanded. Your medicine “targeted” will only be good if it takes into account the different effectiveness in medical research and also incorporates the latest findings from gender mainstreaming into research. I would like this if you go next time to a doctor or a doctor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e34499	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e34521	Mrs. Cortolezis-Schlager, you have proved today that you do not know what gender mainstreaming is. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] No, you really don't know. They confuse equal treatment policies with gender mainstreaming. Gender mainstreaming is quite different: Gender mainstreaming is the right to redefine every day which sex you want. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] - There you laugh! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Feminists in Germany have already come up with how negative gender mainstreaming is in the consequence. But you see, you didn't deal with it. [[Call the SPÖ:But, my colleague!]] But yes, you didn't deal with it, otherwise you wouldn't have such wrong approaches. But now... – Please, Mrs. President? [[Interference of Advocate Dr. Brinek.]] The President-in-Office would like to make an interlocutory call. Please, call from the government bank! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So I can come to my colleague, Faul. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, it's not about whether he's here or not – he's not missing anyone! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] – I have already heard about the megaphone; believe me, I have not missed anything, your speeches have not been so sensational. But something else is sensational, namely that the Social Democratic Party in 2009, at the end of which we have to fear half a million unemployed and discuss it – the own woman minister! – which privileges the teachers still have, in their own ranks still has an waster with unemployed references as a school director. That's really interesting! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is the point, but not whether Mr Faul is here or not. Mr Faul has been there for ten years and has not noticed anyone until the “sugar” he had a week ago. No one has registered him, so he has not noticed his jobless relationship either. He hasn't noticed in the committee either, I've seen him there x-time. He was there, made a little phone calls and concluded insurance contracts. That was his main activity. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Always evaporating...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the problem you have in your own ranks. You have still not solved it, and this does not understand any unemployed person and no official in this country, ladies and gentlemen, the High House! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you want, I will also invent an animal whose sponsorship you can take over. It's just not cloned yet, but it's the "crocophant", ladies and gentlemen: heavy and slow and never get the armor full! That's the animal that's available to him as a patenter. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Control competence for the Court of Auditors on the Communities means primarily prophylaxis for the mayors. Some of what happens in the communities in the mismanagement would not have happened if one had prophylactically a corresponding control competence. Mr President, please contradict me if it is different. This has, as it were, an educational effect. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to Mrs President of the People's Procuratorate. I didn't expect this election aid from the People's Procuratorate at all, I was very pleased about it. If you want to continue, continue – everyone has the right to be ridiculous, Mrs. Brinek! – if You want to do so on behalf of your Lord Secretary-General. - What's his name? Cold builder? Or what's his name? Kaltenhauser? – Oh so, Kaltenegger; yes, a great lamp of Austrian domestic policy! [[Abg. Petzner: Kaltenegger!]] Mr Kaltenegger may not have been very happy with your activities. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Jö, don't get upset now, please! I have also received mail from the President of the Federal Council. – He is now also the President of the Federal Council. He congratulated me on my birthday. Do you know what he wrote? – Mr deputies on the National Councillor Ewald Stadler. - Oh, an insanity! What are we doing now, ladies and gentlemen? – A lawsuit from the public prosecutor's office is in the house! A few years ago, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has honoured lawyers who were no longer lawyers for years and has invited them with “populators” and addressed them and also made a press release to do so. In the future, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany must be afraid that Mrs Brinek will appear and enter the office of President. The President-in-Office of the Council can “put on a warm suit” because he has to expect a complaint, ladies and gentlemen. Don't you have any other worries, Mrs. Brinek? Is that all you care about? – I’d like to think in your place about the decline in complaints; that is, the trust of the population goes back! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the time when I was a popular lawyer, the number of installments doubled; the number of executions, by the way, had to be increased, so even the staff level had to be increased. With you, the trend is falling. Then talk about a protected word image brand. We have already changed this word-image mark several times, which is not protected. Or do you want to act as a company in legal traffic: Company People's Procuratorate?- Oh, my God! Is that what you want? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Is there a word message for this? Do you have any opinion on this? – This has told me the financial attorney on your behalf: A protected word-image mark has been violated. – Ewald Stadler as a word-image brand, that’s something new! The term “populator”... – But I am not protected by Mrs. Brinek, I am protecting myself, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call at the ÖVP:... demand protection?]] That's the difference. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then the name was reversed. – I forgot the date of baptism of the People’s Procuratorate. When, then, was she baptized in the name of “Volksanwaltschaft ”? – I can’t remember, I don’t know who did the ceremony back then. This is the protection interest on which the public prosecutor is based: § 43 ABGB, where it concerns family names and company names, ladies and gentlemen. It's not ridiculous at all! But it's defying. First it's said there's a lawsuit, then there's no complaint. Then comes a letter from the Financial Procuratorate on behalf of the Public Procuratorate, where a complaint is threatened. Then comes a term run that really has it: The Financial Procuratorate asks me on 20 July. May on – delivered on 22 May. May – to make a statement that I agree to withdraw my advertising in the future. I'm supposed to do this on 25 May. May leave – so that was yesterday, 12 o'clock; that's what happened. And then I'll be in fourteen days, that's exactly up to 8. June, the campaigners are recruiting. This is really a brilliant time cycle, there's nothing to do with it! I signed that. I told you I'm going to be 8. In June, all campaigners will be taken back. I can promise you that high and holy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] By the way, the whole is not signed by the President of the Financial Procuratorship, but by the Deputy Head of Division – not even by the Head of Division himself or by the Head of Division, but by the Deputy Head of Department of Innovation, Performance and Competition, ladies and gentlemen. – So much about the seriousness of this concern. [[Abg. Grosz: Where do they have “innovative” here?- Oh, my God!]] Mrs Brinek, if you have more serious things to offer, then step That's what you're doing to the public. If you believe that you are doing a public service with this, then you are wrong. By the way, we have already examined this. Let us explain this by those members of the People's Procuratorate who have been in the institution for a long time. That was the case of Steinhauser, a well-known former black man, you still need to know him from your early days; or another former black man whose name I do not want to take into my mouth now – but he is common to me. In these two cases, we have examined how this is with the People's Procuratorate, and we have found that the Public Procuratorate has no protection for its name. You can fix that, you can change it, but don't pretend that Ewald Stadler was in violation of a law. If you are a popular lawyer, don't say there are law violations where there are no - or learn to do so! It's enough if you make a grip on the archive.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e34705	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e34727	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'm saving myself the speeches, because it's only a little time. But, Mr Stadler, a very short sentence: Faith You really think the argument you've put forward is to be taken seriously? It is said by a speaker of your party that we are putting this up after the elections, then he is no longer calling himself a popular lawyer. And then you come with your argumentation and want to explain to us that you have good legal reasons to use the title “Volksanwalt”. - That's not right! That's how you make the Republic's institutions ridiculous. [[Congratulations on the Greens and on representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Second point: One can criticize something about the fact that a Member of the SPÖ, the Deputies Faul, is school director. [[Abg. Grosz: And that he doesn't work for it!]] – I can’t judge whether he works or not. [[Abg. Grosz: Not at all!]] The fact is, if Mr Petzner criticizes this, this will be given a special skin gout. As far as I can remember, MP Petzner was not only the head of the BZÖ's election campaign in almost all recent elections, he has been Deputy Party President, Deputy Clubman, and he is also the head of the national press. [[Abg. Petzner: Very successful!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Did he get a salary for that?- Oh, my God!]] Now I'm wondering, In which of these numerous functions does he actually work? If I'm not fooled, some great job was offered to him now. I don't know if you've accepted it or if you're going to give up on it. The one who promised you the job has declared publicly that everything goes together anyway, that all fits together. Petzner can do seven jobs, is not a problem, but the honourable Member Faul obviously has a problem with his two jobs. [[Abg. Grosz: He is just industrious as opposed to Mr Faul!]] That is not the case, Mr Petzner. [[Congratulations on the Greens and on representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Only the fact that you, Mr Petzner, are working as a press spokesman for a country chief should you, in fact, also demand the necessary sensitivity to the difficulties of sharing power which it needs. However, I wanted to comment on a number of points, which can actually be negotiated here and today, as there are: the still existing problem of political pensions and the still existing problem, that, shortly before elections, federal governments, as I mean, become very diligent. If this last federal government – and there you are required, Secretary of State! – in June, it decides to dissolve, and at the same time, in 2008 as regards the information work of a retired Federal Government, in the months following the resolution of the Federal Government, but before the election of intensity is so strong that one can only say more, that is, as far as information and propaganda activity is concerned, the most expensive federal government was, then something is wrong, Mr State Secretary, and then you are required – all of you from the government parties! You can continue the game in such a way that in the last two months before the elections, as far as information work is concerned, you do the maximum amount of expenditure, but let's be assured, we also think of something! This is certainly not the case that, before the election, most expenditures will be spent on a failed federal government and, otherwise, over the year – and this federal government has not given rise to fame in its very short time of government – the expenditures are also overcrowded enough. The highest expenditure we ever had was in 2008. - Point one. Point two: political relations and political pensions. I know that's an unloved subject. I would just like to announce that you will also be confronted with a corresponding amendment from our Friday page. But one thing you'll be assured on this issue – it's almost none of those present anymore: They can all, as it were, criticise the fact that there are still privileges in terms of political pensions, which are absolutely incomprehensible to the majority of the population, because there is no other professional group where after four years of work, you can already register pensions of several thousand euros. Let's talk about it. It's not about us discussing now why it was 30 or 40 years ago. You could discuss with us whether it makes sense to continue this regulation ad infinitum, because you yourself know that this transitional regime with which the law has been abolished will last for 30 years. But what you need to discuss with us in every case is that what comes in the form of pension contributions is extremely low, while all other population groups – whether in the form of pension reform or in the case of current measures – are always required of any victim. Do something at last so that something happens to old guys' pensions too! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Last comment: From FPÖ-page there were two statements on women – and the Minister of the State also wished for words by men on the subject of women. I say only one address addressed to the FPÖ: They have cheered us of a 2.3 percent reproduction rate that is supposed to be in France, while in Austria there are only 1.3 percent. Please do not repeat this and spare us with such models! 2.3 percent would result in France’s extermination within a very short time! It's not about 2.3 percent, but it's about every adult woman in childbearing age who can bring 2.3 children to the world on average, but not 2.3 percent. - That's one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] The other is that France, too, no longer has this rate of birth of 2.3, but, of course, a lower one. Nevertheless, I think it makes sense to see what the differences are. We are already on the second issue you have raised. Spain was praised as an example because the housewife is now supposedly rewarded by the Spanish Federal Government. – That is not true either, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. It is not rewarded the housewife in Spain with a housewife's wage, but it is a measure that is quite clever: It will make it easier for women working at home to enter the labour market in the areas of childcare and care after an examination. Yes, it should be, but I hope that we too are on the best way to make this possible in Austria. There is not necessarily enough to pick up on Spain, but we are already there.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e34858	The next item is Mr Volksanwalt Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e34880	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The public prosecutor's office and the protection of its name were referred to several times. I believe that as an institution of the National Council, which is referred to by the Constitution as the People's Procuratorate, we have to provide information in this House and also want to provide information. Mr Stadler, you can make fun of everything. You can make fun of this house, you can make fun of the People's Procuratorate, you can also make fun of functionalists. The question is just how seriously to take up one's own activity in this regard. In this context, I should like to point out that in an election campaign you advertise the wording: “Our popular attorney in Brussels, Mag. Ewald Stadler. ” [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Stadler and Scheibner.]] There would be a very simple procedure to make this statement a correct one, namely: “May it be. Ewald Stadler, our popular lawyer in peace in Brussels”. [[Abg. Petzner: I'm an advertising professional, you don't!]] And that you do not do this, ladies and gentlemen, makes it clear that you want to beat party-political capital out of the function of the public prosecutor. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] This is the reason why the People's Procuratorate – and I may calm you in this connection, Mr Stadler – has brought a complaint to the Krems Regional Court today and that, in this context, this action is of course also based on an interim order, without consulting any parties; that is, if the Court wishes to do so, even before the election. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Bring her in!]] However, I would also like to mention briefly the legal position of Mr Mag. Stadler cut, enter: It is true that in an opinion of the Financial Procuratorate of 17 May, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities and the Court of Justice of the European Communities, of the one part, and of the other part, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, of the other part, of the other part, of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, of the other part, of the Court of Justice of the European Communities of the European Communities, of the European Communities and of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the Court of Justice of the European Communities and of the Court of First Instance of the European Communities, of the European Communities. of 14 July 2002 and in a supplementary and confirmatory opinion of 14 July 2002 In May 2009, it is explicitly stated that a designation has a name function when it refers to a bearer as such or to a company, which is to be claimed in the case of lawyers. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The company Volksanwalt!]] That is, an opinion of the Constitutional Service and the Financial Procuratorship, chaired by the Chairman. Stadler has been ordered, confirms this criminality and this judicial responsibility. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He speaks of criminality, but that is entirely in addition!]] So we did at a meeting of 22. It should be noted, however, that in the two cases at that time, a similar action should not be brought, but that such an action should be sought in the event of blatant repetition. What else is an blatant case of a repetition, if not that of this election movement that you have launched in this context?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do it, bring it in! Only you can't talk about criminality!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words on the political side: The People's Procuratorate, like the Court of Auditors, sees itself as a control body of the National Council and is responsible for the entire National Council. The condition for our work is the objectivity which the citizen takes seriously and which also respect the political groups of this House. That is why we see it as essential to intervene in this context, because we do not want to be the subject of an election campaign. A function like that of the public prosecutor cannot be attributed to a single party. We're not going to let party politics! [[Congratulation with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Weinzinger.]] And lastly, ladies and gentlemen, for those who do not yet know this: ombudsman and public prosecutorship is the whole area covered. In Austria we have three, namely Brinek, Stoisits and Kostelka. If Mr. Mag. Stadler, if the Austrian voters decide to come to Brussels as MEPs of the European Parliament, he will find there a Ombudsman, a popular lawyer, Nikiforos Diamandouros, who will of course be happy to be available to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e35005	The next item is Mr Grosz. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e35027	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Mr Volksanwalt Dr. Kostelka, people who are cheated at the social insurance institution of the industrial industry in the care money classification – you know –, people who are cheated on the pension insurance institution, PVA, for their pension performance and are not properly classified, although they have a moral and legal claim after decades of heavy work; People in this country, citizens of this Republic, who have no more jobs until the end of the year, 500 000 in the number of jobs – a majority of people in that country rightly feel betrayed by the authorities of that Republic. Mr. Volksanwalt, I have a modest opinion that the People's Procuratorate should take care of this. [[The Volksanwälte Dr. Kostelka and Mag. Stoisits: Do them too!]] Mr. Volksanwalt Dr. Kostelka, you are now coming here and your only contribution to this essential chapter of the public prosecutor's budget is to serve in some form on party policy Hickhack as the commissioned work of candidate parties for the European election. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It was always like that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] They do not comment on cases which have not been completed by the authorities and ministries, which are authorities that have abused the right of people, namely people in that country who have not come to their right before the ministries and before the institutions of the State! Instead, you define yourself here in a political speech, where you can – and I agree with you – better than your successor Cap; for unlike him, you were a truly good popular lawyer, a true clubman, a wonderful clubman. Only you are here in this Parliament today in a different role! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I urge you to: Versions You have this house – also in the interest of your cases that you have to represent – with a small-cared hack! There is no interest in anyone who calls himself to represent the population properly. I personally feel as a representative of the population, as a lawyer of the concerns of the Austrians, namely the 24,000 people who have given me confidence in my large constituency in Styria, so that I represent the concerns here as a citizen's attorney to this government. In this sense, I am also a popular lawyer! If you also want to agree to this, you may be initiating a procedure for the withdrawal of a mandate against me if that fits you or does not fit in with you; but it is childish what you are doing here! So: Schuster stay with your man! Do your job properly! People's attorney Stadler does the same, and that's a good thing – everyone in his own way. But now something else, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy: We are also discussing a so-called educational budget in this budget. Minister of Education Schmied rightly complained that she had too little money in her budget to bring education to the forerman in Austria. PISA is a term for you, but on the other hand we have experienced the last five days that there is a director of a real school in Weiz, who has been receiving 75 percent of his reference month after month for ten years and on this In this way, estimated € 450 000 – 6 million Schilling – has been unjust in salary, because he does not comply with any hourly benefits at his school and has been a permanent representative of this school for ten years. It is also not that he disputes, shames or says, no, I am not; no, he argues in all the newspapers and also against the Austrian press agency: If it is not a problem, I am helping Mrs Schmied a little in the introduction of the New Secondary School. Faul as a Member of Parliament helps Ms. Schmied as the Minister of Social Democratic Education to introduce the New Middle School and registers €3500 a month, 14 times a year at a school that does not even know him again; at most it still hangs in any classroom his photo. In addition, Faul is still acting as the municipal council of the city of Weiz, and he is chairman of the Cultural Committee, and by the way he still runs companies, as apparently a well-established insurance broker agency. He is also a member of the National Council. It's 13.40 a.m. now. President of the Prammer National Council opened this meeting at 9 a.m. Since 9 p.m. Mr. Faul has never found himself at his actual place of work in this House. He can't be found at his school either. But today he once again collects his salary twice for today and has done nothing. That's why I'm looking for you. If you still want to keep a spark of credibility, if you want to explain this educational budget to the people in this country, separate yourself from this Member, make a clear ship in your own home, in your own party! Distinguish You are from this Member, because a privilege rider from the previous millennium in the 21st century. In fact, the century is a disgrace for parliamentarianism and for this house! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e35085	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e35107	Mr President. The statements by Mr Kostelka have challenged me to take the floor here. Mr. Volksanwalt, I have known you for a few years now, also as a clubman. We have also fought a few struts. We worked very well together in the Constitutional Convention. We could also have implemented many things together if your party, under Alfred Gusenbauer, had not at that time prevented an administrative reform, a constitutional reform, with its permanent “Njet”. There are also very, very many proposals that you have made with your colleagues to improve the administration and a more efficient public prosecutorship, which we also stress. We would really have liked to discuss this with you, because this should actually be the occasion today, Mrs. Volksanwälter Brinek. Mr. Volksanwalt Kostelka, you said that the People's Procuratorate must not be the subject of an election campaign. Who made them? It wasn't like that. Stadler, that was not Mr Petzner, but that was you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate, who, on whose behalf always made this strange complaint or threat of a lawsuit a public discussion and gave up your institution in truth of ridicule! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Never come!]] People demand you as a People's Procuratorate – and you have said this right: an institution of Parliament! – not that you deal with election posters! And I don't know who of you three sees themselves as a popular lawyer in Brussels! [[Volksanwaltin Dr. Brinek: There's already one!]] It would be nice if you would also raise the floor a little if we were to actively represent the concerns of the population towards the European Union when it comes to allowing the Federal Government to step up its representation of these concerns. [[OBJECTIVES]] None of you can bear this title “Volksanwalt in Brussels”. And if someone who has done this job as a popular lawyer here in Austria says and wishes to express clearly this important work of the People's Office, which you do – and not discuss Party-politically – he would also like to do to Brussels, to these institutions, to the bureaucracy, which works entirely – and sometimes the administration here in Austria – of the interests of the citizens, since he wants to have a better, more efficient representation, he sees himself as a lawyer of the people in Brussels, then one should support it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] Then you should say: Yes, at last one who sees it that way!, and not to go to the field with any proposals and threats of complaint. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If that's the case, tell me who gave you the order! Mr. Volksanwalt Kostelka, that was your only word today! Otherwise, do you no longer have any worries in your area, such as how people get to their right more quickly, how they better accommodate their concerns toward the administration?- Oh, my God! This is not all important in the unique discussion today also to the public prosecutor's budget, which problems the public prosecutor has – humanely, from the budget, in terms of better access to information?- Oh, my God! That's not a theme! The BZÖ Electoral Log: Volksanwalt Ewald Stadler, a lawyer for citizens' affairs in Brussels!, this is the most important thing the public prosecutor has to do here and today. If that were the case, it would be nice. Then one would have to congratulate the administration and the people in Austria that they have no other concern. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There are already concerns!]] I'm just afraid people have other concerns, but unfortunately three people's lawyers don't.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e35203	I don't have a word message anymore. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[13:46:03]] European and international affairs UG 12: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e35235	We are now entering into the negotiations on the European and international affairs section. Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e35262	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Since we have a day without an antifa-polite agitation of the Greens, it looks like the BZÖ is filling this gap and there are the old, three sessions during lazy history and now the attacks on the economy are new. I ask everyone – also the BZÖ delegates! – to return to the matter and accept that we are in a budget debate on the fourth day in a row and that, as Members of Parliament, we are actually representing the concerns of the population. [[Abg. Grosz: Are you defending the lazy?]] – Mr Grosz is always particularly proud of the 24 000 people who have elected him. I don't know how you got the 24 000 votes, whether as a preferred vote, or perhaps not the BZÖ has got them?- Oh, my God! I'll take a look at the preferred votes. [[Abg. Grosz: That's the number of elections, but you obviously didn't check that!]] Let us be a little proud that we really represent the concerns of the population and do not constantly cool our own emotional moths here! And, please, let's leave my colleague Faul out of the game now! This roller is really out of place and rather embarrassing for us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Back to the topic External: €435 million, which is the budget approach of this chapter 12. That doesn't sound like much if we keep in mind the numbers that have been spirited by the media and the house in the last few days. This doesn't sound like much when we consider that in the current budgetary planning we are building up as much loss in about 12 or 13 days as the entire budget item is. If you say we lose about € 40 to 45 million a day Overhanging the expenditure on revenue in Austria, then we spent the entire budget in twelve, 14, 15 days. However, this budget is a huge cost-labour, which belongs to it, but is not indicated. It is about the place of business for European and international affairs. That is to say, to the €435 million that have been declared directly, that is to say, what we are paying to the EU. That's about €2.4 billion. It is also a matter of what we are doing in terms of development assistance and cooperation. That's about €1.35 billion. These two packages together are already €4 billion. So we're not talking about nothing here, and we're not talking about butter bread, we're talking about substantial and substantial amounts. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: We simply do that?! We close the borders, leave the EU?- Oh, my God!]] I would like to invite everyone to go through these expenditure positions with me a little – as far as this is possible in eight minutes. Mr Amon has raised the allegation that the opposition will not come from anything other than unqualified statements and that it will be necessary to reflect on a reorganisation of the budget or on the budget approaches only if the crisis is over. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] However, I invite colleagues to think with me about whether the entire expenditure positions hidden in here are really such that we do not have to think about it. Let us perhaps start with the EU! They read it in the newspapers: The cost of the EU Parliament alone is €1.2 billion. Although it is a large Parliament, it still costs ten times as much as our National Council, which is not exactly cheap and cost-conscious. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Let's do it!]] – Mrs Colleague! You're still on it! [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Democracy costs something!]] I don't understand. Let me talk to you. I am not talking about the abolition of the EU and the EU Parliament, but I am talking about costs and budget position 12. Let me say that, please. You are welcome to speak. I think you're on the speaker list anyway. Then you can tell everyone the opposite or tell them how wrong that is what I am saying! Let's go a little further! Let us come to the position of EU agencies. The cost framework comprises about 1.1 to 1.15 billion €. These agencies are a particularly fast growing species. In 2000, there were seven, as far as I remember, now there are 27 agencies, one of them in Vienna. These agencies are characterised by the fact that, among the average personnel costs, they are the highest economic units we know in Europe. The Agency, which is located in Vienna, is the European Fundamental Rights Agency. It was once created as an anti-racism observation centre, because it was thought to have the racists under control, after the coalition that started between Schüssel and Haider. This anti-racism observation centre has been renamed as an Agency for Fundamental Rights like everything in the EU, which is indissoluable and reversible. At present, this agency has 40 plan posts, i.e. as many full-time equivalents. The average cost of this agency is € 143 000 per person. These are positions that we must not only make ourselves comfortable now and in the crisis, but also cause us to feel at all, because all of this is at least part of Austrian money. I do not want to go into the subsidies to cover the return flows in detail. You can think about how you want. Generally, I don't think it makes sense for us to pay €2.4 billion grossly, and then we are glad that, through a huge bureaucracy, a part – about 60 to 65 percent – flows back again. How much it really is, we don't know. Some call 1,4, 1,5 or 1.6 billion euros in return. So we come about this 650 to 700 million € net contribution we have to make this year. [[Abg. Amon: Would you rather we were net recipients?]] Let's take out some example, like the Mandlberggut in Pongau. This has been a subsidy from the EU, as I have drawn from the last reports – a co-subvention! – from €44 000 for the expansion of the gas plant and the connected sales room. That's what I'm giving to the Mandlberggut, that's a nice thing! But is it really the task of the EU, is it really a cost-effective and direct distribution and management of subsidies when such decisions are taken in Brussels and such projects are promoted? I believe that this question can also be asked now in the crisis and before the reorganisation of the real economy. [[Abg. Grill: Such regional ideas don't you want?! Aha!]] – Mr Commissioner, you can then also speak. But let us not stop in the EU, but let us continue! Let's go directly to the foreign budget position! Let's go to our contributions to the UN! We are also, of course, responsible for this, although we cannot decide in the budget whether we are paying contributions to the UN and its missions. That is where we are obliged by UN treaties to do something. That is the question: Should we do something? If our representatives are to join the UN, should our representatives at the EU try to reduce the burden of costs, or should they, as has been done so far, participate in all of this? I have not heard that our representatives – whether in the EU or in the UN – have been given special savings. I know nothing about Austria's strong resistance to the inflation of the fundamental rights agencies and the other EU agencies. I know nothing about a resistance to the inflation of UN mandates and UN operations, although we have been a non-permanent member of the Security Council since the beginning of this year. Look Please let me see the budget positions that we have to pay for our membership! For example, we pay – I have already related it – for this unprecedented quota UNIFIL, the UN mission in Lebanon, which has been in existence for 30 years, € 4.6 million each year. No goal in sight, no sense in sight; three armed conflicts have been rolled away from this UNIFIL mandate! It has not prevented the war or the inactions, nor the destructions, but has suffered losses and cost much. Let's look at other things! For the UN stabilisation mission in Haiti, our contribution is €3.7 million. For the observer mission in Liberia, our contribution is €3 million. For our “love mission” Chad, our contribution is €11 million. I am always talking about the projected costs of the next few years. – Are these all issues and positions that we don’t have to think about and think about now? But let us perhaps leave the UN and come to the diplomatic service – even that has already been debated and revitalized! Austria has 88 foreign missions with ambassador status. Do we need that? Do we need a message in Zimbabwe? Do we need one in Uganda? Do we need one in Peru? [[Abg. Grosz: Yes! When the woman goes to winter and something happens!]] I do not want to discriminate against States now by listing them here. Nevertheless: Do we need that? Do we need an ambassador there with a van? Do we need four or five sur-place people there? Do we need a consul there? Do we need an Austrian cultural mission and so on? [[Abg. Amon: This is a business card!]] Are the business cards that are very important to the citizens? [[Abg. Amon: Yes!]] Is it in the interest of the Austrians that an ambassador represents Austria with service cars and sur-place personnel in Zimbabwe? Is it so important for the Austrian? Is the Austrian so often invited to the embassies? Are the Austrian tourists a guest? Do they eat there with the ambassadors? What are they doing? – Yes, the messages help! [[Abg. Grosz: But the messages help those people...!]] Check how much the messages in Zimbabwe and Co have helped! Look at what an aid cost us! [[Abg. Grosz: Imagine the woman winter is lost somewhere! Then they have to save them!]] I think that Mr Grosz sees in all the comic notes that he says: We should at least think about it! It's not about Peanuts, it's about millions of euros. The Austrian residence – that is, the ambassador's residential building – in Damascus had a cost approach of €2.43 million in 2008, only the residence! I don't know exactly what was done there, whether it was re-purchased or newly built or with marble. We don't know. We can take a look at that in detail. With regard to these positions, I dare to ask the question: Is this in the interest of the Austrian taxpayer? And is this a really necessary and necessary issue in this crisis? We cannot cut all of this from today to tomorrow and end it from today to tomorrow, but we must now consider what structures we want for the future and what budget approaches we ad infinitum are towing all the next years and where we want to rise to the cost brake! One last thing maybe: The cost of development aid/cooperation is €1.32 billion. That sounds nice! Anyone who spends on development aid is good, does something for his neighbor or overnight, shows solidarity! But €1.32 billion is a lot of money. [[Abg. Amon: By international comparison?]] And we haven't reached the target yet, but we're only 0.44% of our gross social product. Our target is 0.7 or 0.72 percent. [[Abg. Amon: 1% would be...!]] That is, there are countries internationally that are much more important. There are states like Sweden that already spend well over €2 billion. There are countries smaller than Austria that spend € 2 billion. The question is: Does that make sense? Did that lead to something? – I dare to doubt it. It has led to the creation of a huge team of clientele and drinking money states that surround Europe, partly 70 or 80 percent dependent on development aid. Once we mentioned it: Our priority country of Mozambique... – one of the priority countries – refers to 57 percent of its government revenue from development aid. [[Abg. Amon: One of the priority countries!]] But this is only that part of development aid that goes directly into the budget. Burkina Faso Thus, approximately 60 percent of its revenue from direct grants is included in its budget. However, these 60 percent represent only 30 percent of the total development aid or development co-operation fees that flow into that country. That means – you can count on it! –: There are only about 20 percent of every euro or CFA Franc – as it is called – that is spent there, out of own, generated money, 80 percent are drinking money that has been passed on. With regard to such a system, such a structure one will at least think about whether we are taking part in it and whether, with the argument that other countries are paying much more, we are going to be content and continue to pay! I have therefore prepared an application and I have also tabled it which is aimed at these issues and which has the following content. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Do you know what that means?- Oh, my God!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e35582	The next speaker was Dr. Schüssel. Set speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e35604	High house! Minister! Congratulations on the first months of Austrian participation in the UN Security Council – a very difficult task, but well solved so far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Allow me to repeat your speech, Mr. Dr. Hübner. What is actually the consequence of what you have formulated as a question – quite legitimately – here: Does that make sense? – What is the consequence? Should we leave the UN? Should we leave the European Union? Then, of course, we save ourselves all these things. They have also contributed to the Millennium Goals, which provide for clear conditions to be met by the richer countries so that these objectives can be achieved and achieved at all. I don't think we can send ourselves out of this world as a small, well-situated country. The back to Biedermeier, the shrinking – a shrinking house so to speak – doesn't work! That would be wrong, too, is my deep conviction. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] That's what I want to tell you here. On your argument regarding development aid and all that you have mentioned here: Do you not think that with exactly the same right, an American MP could have asked, at the time, in the years from 1947 on, whether it makes sense to transfer 1.5 percent of the US gross domestic product to the former enemies in Europe as Marshall Plan aid, and that over a few years? [[Abg. Weinzinger: It did!]] A huge thing! To this day we benefit from it, and I think it is actually a moral obligation that we return a bit of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens]] This is my sincere conviction, and I would like to tell you quite openly. To your statements regarding the network: The Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs is one of the smallest in the world. With confidence said: If an Austrian ambassador in Africa has 20 countries to care for, you can grant him at least one service bike. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] So this shattering of a envy complex, friends, is ridiculous! There are even, as I know, free politicians who are very happy to take advantage of the help of the Austrian authorities. I remember how recently a Secretary-General who belongs to your party got into distress when he protested against a mosque building in Cologne. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Plassnik]] But there were local demonstrations, and then there was the cry: Where's the Austrian ambassador taking me out? I even think I can remember that there was an issue of the FPÖ – by him – in which the then foreign minister was threatened with a vote of distrust if he was not immediately released from this danger zone. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the ÖVP as well as with the honourable Member Mag. Lunacek and Dr. Van der Bellen.]] So, friends, let us remain serious, let us be proud of this ministry, of its officials, and let us also trust, Dr. Hübner, to look a little beyond the edge of the plate! I personally believe that the next two years we are now discussing during the budgetary negotiations will be very difficult. We do not only have the financial and economic crisis, but we have Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran, North Korea with its underground nuclear attempts and the simultaneous launch of missiles, the problems in Palestine that are not at all solved, the problems in Africa, where the European Union is still helping – thank God –; we currently have twelve military missions, four of them in Africa. – Should we let all of this explode? Or do we not, as one of the major global players, also have the task of exporting security and stability in order not to have to eventually import instability? Especially you will, rightly, always remind us that we are exporting security, and that is exactly what we are doing. Who can do this better than just multilateral organisations such as the United Nations or the European Union? We must not, therefore, make ourselves smaller than we are. We need to move towards a new situation with the Lisbon Treaty. Thank God there will no longer be a rotating presidency in foreign policy, but the High Representative – actually the European Foreign Minister – will have to hold the Presidency with the Foreign Ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: What's his name?]] He will sit in the Commission at the same time as Vice-President. The double track that the Commission has the money and the High Representative of the Council almost the legitimacy of the Member States then ceases. That's being brought together. A European Diplomatic Service will be established for the first time – and that makes sense. We Austrians should be actively working together, sending good people there so that overall the goals we have set ourselves together can also be achieved. I personally believe – also a few days before the European elections – that Europe has a very special role to play in setting standards – for every citizen. For example: It makes no sense for each country to develop its own plug that industry has different standards around the world. The European Union is currently one of the most important standards and standards sets in the world; better than the Americans, in addition noted. Consumer protection: Who is it who has exposed and forbidden residue in toys for children? – The European Commission! Thank God we have them! Or: When the Heparin scandal was discovered some time ago, the result was that contaminated or contaminated active substances led to deaths in America. – No country in the world can do it alone today. The large Germany has just two health inspectors, who can control the 4,000 Chinese companies by sampling. They drive there twice a year. – You can imagine what that means. There can only be a strong Union in all our interests – for consumer protection, for the setting of standards. Or, as far as the financial rules are concerned: Thank God at the G-20 summit in London, the line of the Union was established. We should ensure – and this is certainly also a request to the Foreign Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor – that this is not paralysing now. I already have the feeling that some – on Wall Street and also in London’s City – are beginning to move to Business as usual again. We don't need all of that. It is important to be vigilant and to use the strength of the Union for us, for our markets, for the proper monitoring of the markets. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The same applies to climate protection, ladies and gentlemen. Who finally formulated the rules at the Kyoto Conference or at the follow-up conference in Copenhagen? Where are the great ones still standing outside, the Chinese, the Americans? – We must bring them up with the help of the Union and with the help of pressure. Finally for us Austrians: Especially during this time, we have learned how well the eurozone protects and benefits us. I would not like to carry out the thought experiment seriously, what would have been Austria from the EU or even from the Eurozone outside, and there would have been speculation and the whole discussion – from Paul Krugman to others – around Austria and the East exposure – and I do not know what else. Therefore: Let us be glad that we have this instrumentarium, this toolbox that we can serve! They polemize – a little bit – against regional support, against these many projects, which we have also received with the help of the Union – although as a net payer, but nevertheless through the return flows. Of course, one can discuss about every one of these far more than 100 000 projects, but one thing I also say as an economist: In the years since our membership, we have been the only country to recover 90 percent of our gross contributions – the Irish are equally good – and with these € 18 billion we have done extremely interesting things. The whole wine industry, the whole thermal industry, tourism, a whole range of educational work, social projects, disability work – all supported by this huge economic upgrading programme that we have received through the European Union. Of course, it costs something. – But with confidence said: Calculate this €700 million on our 8.5 million Austrians – soon there will be 9 million Austrians! That's not even 2 € a week. That's what I'm asking: Is it not a sensible investment that we are in the process of being able to talk with us and that we can also make visible to every citizen that this European Union has a meaning for us? Sometimes the “Europe of the Companies” is spoken of. . Especially in these days, the Commission proves that it is firm that it does not have a garden tube but a backbone. Microsoft has been sentenced to €1.7 billion in penalty payments, Intel in these days to more than €1 billion. - Who of us could afford it alone? Therefore: I believe, above all, that we must accept this question, stay inside and fight with all our strength. In this context, two requests have been made, namely first of all, that we show these large numbers of positive projects to the population as well. I heard a rumor – I don't know if it's true – that what was supposed to be agreed in the government programme: that every EU-funded project should also receive a logo, is suddenly withdrawn, because it is said that not all federal states will be involved. – Friends, you can't! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] It is the right of all of us to be reminded that what is promoted by EU aid is also called this. And this cannot fail the opposition of one or two or three countries. It cannot be that one emphasizes the performance of individuals and the European Union is based on it. Second request: If I already think that we have to think a lot and get involved, then the presence is part of it. I say this openly, Mr Minister; that is a request, a good Council, no criticism. If we want to play a role in the European Union and become aware of it, we must be really high-ranking on all dates. At the Danube Summit, for example – I admit, I am caught, I have co-founded it – we cannot be represented by an ambassador alone, but there must be a maximum political representation. Or at the EU Summit in Prague on the Eastern Partnership, there we must be represented at the political level. Therefore, my request: to take advantage of the opportunities and not to let us hunt into the bockshorn in any way or to make us smaller than we are. – Thank you and luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e35719	The next speaker was Mr Scheibner. Fixed speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e35741	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schüssel, I am perfectly right in saying that it is important for Austria and, above all, Austria's foreign policy to be active and also high-ranking in the international bodies and to speak and try to enforce its own positions. But there are different criteria that are necessary to achieve this. On the one hand, the human resources must be available, and on the other hand, I have not understood at all that, although in this Federal Government, there is an own State Secretary for Propaganda, for media work, namely the former head of the cabinet of the Federal Chancellor Faymann, who is then, together with him, everywhere at the events – who obviously must also report to the Federal Chancellor on this debate – has deleted the truly meaningful posts of a State Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I do not understand this at all, because, of course, as parliamentarians, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here in Parliament is also highly represented by a member of the government, in the committees et cetera. This is also necessary in the area of the European Union, it would be necessary for international events, as Mr Schüssel has said, and it is also necessary to be high-level in the field of bilateral events and contacts. - How is that supposed to go? If we were to take Austria's foreign policy seriously, we should not have done so, despite all the need for savings. There you saved in the wrong place, because a State Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would have been very necessary. [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] Second point: If you want to enforce something, you also have to have a position. And since, ladies and gentlemen, also of the government parties, I wonder whether we always have a position, namely, an independent Austrian position – or whether it is so, as it is too often in the past, that we wait once, what the others say, how the majority opinion on a particular topic is. Some in the Diplomatic Service sees it as its main task to compile information about the position of the others, to develop beautiful reports and to make them speak notes, and then to match the corresponding representatives in the bodies to this position of the others. I have often experienced at least the attempt at the Council meetings that Got any papers you should've kept, which I've done very rarely. But that is, I believe, not the area where we can and should act as an independent foreign policy. As a member of the Security Council, Austria would now be able to act loud and offensively in various areas, especially in conflict areas. Unfortunately, there is relatively little to hear. As a small country, you should look for a niche where you can occur accordingly. It's no harm! I've often heard: There we would be the only ones representing this opinion! - Yes, and, please? How else is there to be an active foreign policy of a small country, if it does not even speak a different language than all the others who are organized in the large organizations? Above all – and you know it, Foreign Minister, I have often said this – in areas of world policy where Austria has a good name, for example in the Middle East crisis, in the Middle East conflict, I and many others have missed very often that Austria is courageous and does not wait for what the Americans say, what others say when it comes to supporting a peace process based on equal rights – I emphasize: more equal! – Negotiating partners in this region. But maybe sometime a new era will break; that would be good, important and right. From the point of view of my group, I say: We are interested in a single foreign policy, in which one does not carry out a party-political sham, but above all acts jointly and offensively outwardly. But you also have to vote the positions internally and can't say: We say what is to be done here, and you can ask what is pleasant for us, and ask her something that is not pleasant to us, then you just don't get an answer! Mr Foreign Minister, this is how it happened recently: You have said that you too must save, you too must comply with the budget targets – well, that is certainly necessary – but you have also said that you do not want to save at staff, in the allowances and in other things, because it is important that you have good people. - I don't want to comment on that now. So, Federal Minister, you have been saving at embassies, not at several embassies, but at one message: You want to close the message in Oman and lock it up in Baku. The latter is positive, because we should certainly also support interests of economic, political and cultural nature in this region, but why is the only message that will block you out of your savings plans, one in an Arab country where, as has already been said, we could play an important role? It's always called for: Let this role be more true as a bridge between this region and the European Union! You know that, Minister, it was only in the last few days that high-ranking state visits were also here in Austria, and we have discussed this point over and over again. Nevertheless, the decision to save is down there. It is not about hundreds of millions, it is about a few posts of service, about a property, and I see this a little different from Mr Hübner: I believe that an Austrian representative is also an important institution in these countries: economic, political, cultural, and quite simply a signal that this region is important to us. Mr Federal Minister, you are setting a completely wrong signal if you are the only one to close a message in an Arab country, especially as you know that the view of the We have many cultural projects, economic projects, as well as recent scientific projects; the University of Vienna wants to establish its own university there. – So an important message and a business card from Austria in this region, in a stable country, a country with a future. So we're setting the wrong signal. I wanted to know, Mr Foreign Minister, how it is about the strength of staff in the other embassies. It may be possible to save, so not to close whole messages, but to save staff in the embassies in the EU Member States. What else is the meaning of membership of the European Union if we cannot save on our representations in Germany, the UK, France and other EU Member States? Linear one, two service posts – you don't feel that there and probably have more savings potential than this wrong signal you put here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Minister, you have not even given me an answer. We have tried – via your cabinet, via all kinds of channels – to find out in which messages there is the strength of personnel. They told us: That's not what we're telling you; it's none of your business! So, Mr Foreign Minister, one cannot jump in with the opposition, nor can one expect a single line in foreign policy – rightly. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this would be a more sensible measure than the way you just went. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: It is true that the benefits of the European Union must also be discussed accordingly. That's not a question at all. A damp anti-European policy is completely wrong. On the other hand, however, one should not constantly fall into euphoria, but one must show the deficits. Especially if you are in favour of a common Europe, you should not defend the Lisbon Treaty, but you should consider what this Europe should look like in the future, because Lisbon is a response to the past, but it is not at all a direction towards the future, Mr Bartenstein. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this respect, we should break our heads, just as we have done with our concept of a core Europe, from a Europe of different swings. The European Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council will be able to give their full support to the Commission's proposals on the implementation of the common agricultural policy and on the implementation of the common agricultural policy in the field of agricultural policy. This would be an interesting programme, which we should discuss, but we should not be instigating strange phobias on the one hand and launching withdrawal philosophy – where we know exactly that we must be glad that we are organizing many areas together – or on the other hand, we are creating a euphoria that is also not appropriate.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e35896	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is in substance related to the subject-matter of the negotiations and therefore involved in the negotiation. Furthermore, the motion for a resolution previously tabled by Mr Hübner on savings measures in the field of foreign policy is sufficiently supported, is in substance related to the subject of the negotiations and is therefore also under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e35999	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann speaking. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e36021	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! – Yes, I also have someone else, another colleague, Mr Stadler. [[Abg. Where's Faul?]] [[Call BZÖ: Is there anyway!]] - I don't see him, where is he? He arrived at 12 o’clock, so now he is gone again at 14 o’clock. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr. Faul hasn't been there since 9 a.m. today!]] Yeah, let's see. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr. Stadler is on the list of speakers! Look at it!]] [[Abg. Grosz: But where is Faul?]] At any rate, Mr Stadler today quoted a letter – a birthday letter to him – on which it is said to be in the address: “Volksanwalt”. However, he has forgotten a small detail, namely the letter combination “a.D.”. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] If you are already quoting, Mr Stadler – in the absence, or wherever he stops – then you should do that correctly. Mr Stadler, in particular, has always been the master of hair clefts, so he should also be able to exercise correctness in his own things. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also wish you every good birthday – may the years follow the wisdom! On foreign policy: Especially in the field of foreign policy, it is often about symbols that are also observed internationally and which ultimately make up the reputation of a country. Mr Hübner, you have been particularly concerned about this. Especially when it comes to international solidarity, it is about showing that our country wants to take responsibility for global development and also to co-form it. The most effective way of dealing with the current crisis in peace is to coordinate the international community of states, where Austria can and should contribute not only in an ideal way to know-how and mediation, but also financially. The contribution payments are targeted at, at least, very well-connected money. Those who reverse the financial commitments will also lose influence and credibility in the world. Mr Hübner, I would also like to give you the opportunity. The contributions to the UN peacekeeping missions also make great sense, because it is a matter of equipping local hotspots to end human suffering and not even to create refugee flows in Europe. Foreign policy is also domestic policy. This also leads me to some comments on current developments. Against the background of the current financial and economic crisis and also of the social crisis, the German Chancellor Merkel and the French President Sarkozy have taken a very supportive lead in seeing the negotiations with Turkey in a different light and in turning the accession negotiations into negotiations on a privileged partnership into a sort of transformation – i.e. for various reasons, no accession option, no option of full entry. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Right now?]] I would be interested in your attitude to this, Mr Foreign Minister, and also in how you stand on this proposal. European foreign policy is on the verge of change – that is, the foreign policy of the European states. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The SPÖ is also in a break!]] We must also play an active part in this redesign when it comes to creating more efficient and modern structures. The establishment of a European diplomatic service will certainly provide some opportunities for more effective use of resources in the future. This redefinition, this redefinition of tasks in the field of the representation authorities, is to be given the highest attention in the future, because finally and finally it is about the best possible service for our citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e36162	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Fixed speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e36183	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! First, I must add something to the end of the debate on the last item on the agenda. I think it is quite surprising that the BZÖ, which once very often criticized, has instrumentalized public offices to what extent SPÖ and ÖVP, which they have included, for party purposes – this criticism has also been given by the Greens – and now does exactly the same – still where Mr Stadler does not even hold this office. – This has probably been a change that the BZÖ has gone through. There you have offices, and afterwards you simply don't have them anymore, and after that you still abuse them for the party and not for the interest of the people. [[Oh-Rufe of Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Scheibner.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Not a popular lawyer?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you not a lawyer of the people?]] For this there is a rejection by us, for such a deal with public offices – even if someone is no longer in office, like Mr. Stadler, who is no longer a popular lawyer – I would have been told by the BZÖ – well, how I should say it was probably wrong for me to expect you not to do what you have been constantly criticizing others before. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Let's put the blame in!]] – That's how power corrupts. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's what we're doing!]] Before I now deal with the main issue, I must also address what Mr Hübner has said. They call for 50 per cent of what is going on in development cooperation and a reduction in what is going on in the European Union, because we should not give that much money elsewhere. You also find that the European Parliament consumes too much money or abuses it. I'm just wondering why someone of you is going to run. I am very much in favour of showing up misunderstandings and changing things – in the European Parliament, there will be a new statute for Members – but your attitude, what you want, and the way you deal with it, is exactly the same as that of Hans-Peter Martin. They believe that it is best not to pay any more abroad: neither for development aid nor for development cooperation in the countries of the Third World, nor for the EU. – Do you know how that works? The criticism that there seem to be too many messages from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also as follows: If we are best to block the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we leave the EU – that's probably what you suspect – we'll lock ourselves up, we'll close the borders, and then – you probably want to convey this to the people – everything's all right again!Unknown term type: "%s".? I mean, where do you live? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] We live in the 21st century. At the end of the century, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Your ideas to close Austria and stay among us – after good night, Austria! - we can't need them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Stay alone after the EU election!]] I want a federal government that is committed to our common European interests and that is also seeking allies on important issues in the European Union. Yesterday evening there was an event at the Diplomatic Academy, during which a colleague of mine from the European Parliament, Milan Horácek – the Czech exiled in Germany and now sitting for the German Greens in the European Parliament – meant debate: Europe is really good! – I said yes, I like the sentence. Then ex-Secretary of State Winkler, now head of the Diplomatic Academy, meant: Yes, everyone, including those who are pro-European, always finds criticism of the EU. This is, of course, in a democracy. Criticism is one of the democratic principles. I therefore believe that this discussion would be very important and necessary, especially at a time when the mood in the population is so negative towards the European Union. This was probably also caused by the behaviour of the federal governments in recent years, which so often played the following game: They agreed to some sort of thing in Brussels, but when they got home and noticed that it was not good for the population, they said at once: They are to blame in Brussels, we have nothing to do with it! – This attitude has probably contributed to this too. Mr Spindelegger, I therefore welcome the fact that you made this “listen” at the beginning of your term of office. I'd only be interested in what you've done. They have made a number of proposals, some of which can be thought to be useful. But what about the question of getting an open and quick information on decisions at EU level, what did you think was the prerequisite for an informed dialogue? Have you taken steps already? Is it true that the ministers of this government are actually saying how they voted? Was there already a Council of Ministers lecture from you? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Spindelegger.]] What we need much more is that, in the main committees before the Councils, we are actually getting positions from you to hear what is then decided in the Council. So far, we've always run to a wall, to a rubber wall. [[Call the FPÖ: Do this!]] After that, we might have been told what the conclusions are. . We also know this, but to know the positioning of Austria, so that Parliament also knows in advance how the government intends to act, that would be an important step, also in the sense of public information. Afterwards, we would like to talk in a plenary session about what they have decided and how they have voted. This is a debate that has now been held for a long time: how to make this National Council European. It would be necessary to actually change these things, even here in this House. I also remember this debate, which is really anything but pleasant or targeted, how to deal with the demand for the right to speak by MEPs in the National Council. Two years ago, there was a five-party union about it. I remind you: All five parties were for this! Now ÖVP and SPÖ have said, no, they don't want that anymore. They obviously fear having MEPs speak here and enter into a dialogue, not only within the group, if at all. President Prammer has now said that there may be the possibility to have MEPs speak in the European hours. – That would be a step, but we need a lot more. We need measures to ensure that, for example, the rapporteurs or rapporteurs of the European Parliament can speak here in the specialist committees. This makes sense: to actually mix the levels. What I still criticise is that the two government parties refuse to make a hearing in the National Council on who will be the next representative of Austria in the Commission. [[Abg. New builder: That's where you want a hearing? That's what you want to treat here? No one understands that!]] I don't understand. They criticise the poor moods in Austria vis-à-vis the European Union. Such measures would be necessary to improve something. This is what we call for, and I also call on you, Mr Minister, to finally move forward in this direction. One point to my previous speaker: Mrs Grossmann, you have not explained why, you have just said that the SPÖ has now actually turned to the position of an immediate stop in the accession negotiations with Turkey. That's how I'm supposed to interpret it. - I'm very surprised. With the ÖVP, Mr. Strasser, Mr. Karas does not find this – you do not know exactly where it is going – and the SPÖ says at once – against what the top candidate Swoboda said a few months ago – stop. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, you work on the interests of the liberals when you act like this. It is about – you know very well – that for civil society in Turkey – for human rights organisations, for minority organisations, for Kurds and for women's rights – this accession process is a reform engine. If you are now pleading to stop this immediately, I think you are also giving up some solidarity with these organisations, with civil society in Turkey. And I think that's more than wrong! Now Turkey is in no way ready for accession – and no one claims it – but the doors are to be closed to civil society organisations, and it must not be. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: And what about our society?]] One last question to the Minister: Two out of 56 measures of information and publicity work on European policy have been mentioned in the Explanatory Notes to the Federal Proposal, although it is originally stated in the Government Agreement that a great deal of information is to be done. In an answer to our written request in the committee, write that there is no separate dedication to advertising – you can hear: Advertising, not information and publicity, there is a difference! – for European affairs, and all of this will be done within the framework of the regular budget. Mr Spindelegger, I have the impression that you are talking about the importance of informing about the European Union, but advertising will not do so. Enlightenment work, information work, awareness work about the successes that exist are necessary, and not just a “listen door” that hopefully brings positive results. But we'll see if it succeeds. Until the European elections, I am afraid that will not happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e36371	Mr Spindelegger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e36392	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address some of the issues raised by the speakers but also, in general, to the budget: Of course, a budget of €435 million for 2009 is not a large budget, but one where we move towards the ceiling where we have to provide for and save restructuring measures. I'll bet you, and I've made the savings clear. We will save where there is discretionary expenditure in the area of my resort – in the buildings, where conferences are held, where there are service trips. We will reduce this accordingly so that we can actually get along with the budget targets. We will, of course, also make a modernisation and recasting of our representative authorities, in a sense that can be understood in accordance with objective criteria. That is why I can answer this as soon as possible, Mr Scheibner: Why have we taken the message to Maskat? – Just because the three objective criteria – like many foreign Austrians, there are in this country, how many consular cases we have to deal with in this country and what foreign policy interest we have – have clearly led to the fact that the message in Maskat is the first closing candidate. [[Abg. Scheibner: No interest!]] I know you don't like it, it's not me either. There is, I believe, no minister who likes to lock up any representation authority. But where you start, you have to make such a closure even according to clear, objective criteria. I did that, but not only in the case of mascat, but also in the case of three other representative authorities. I therefore believe that we will come across the rounds with a certain degree of attention, but I acknowledge that it is the message of Maskat and no other. Ladies and gentlemen, on the second point, I would like to say that in the area of development cooperation, we remain in line with what we had. We will be able to keep the budget line, even if it is difficult for us to do so, and we will therefore have to make savings in other areas of our department.I come to the points raised in the discussion. Some speakers have said that we may not be heard enough. – Ladies and gentlemen, we have a clear position. We can have been in the United Nations Security Council since 1. January 2009 to sit at the table of the 15 countries and decide with you when it comes to consulting on conflicts and taking resolutions. And we only took a very clear position there two weeks ago at the Security Council on the matter of the Middle East. I can tell you that the reactions I get – from the Arab world, but also from Israel – show me that this clear position is not only heard but also has the effect. One they criticize, the other they welcome, depending on which side you stand. But for us, one thing is clear: We are on the side of international law, and therefore it is clear that there must also be a conviction when international law is broken. We stand by this principle, and we remain with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should like to say something to the House on the subject of Security Council, because for the first time it was the case: At the last meeting of the Security Council at ministerial level, we have for the first time brought together with our partners from Europe, with France and Great Britain. We have jointly set up an initiative on Sri Lanka. We have jointly given a press conference to this effect. And we have also, together, maintained that the Security Council is concerned with this issue. This was not an easy work, but a good work, and we see that this has also arrived with the partners in Europe. I am therefore very satisfied with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was mentioned here that a request had not been answered. – I would also like to make a clear point. The discussions in the Budget Committee have the possibility of being sent in writing, which are to be answered within four days. Of course, Mr Scheibner's question was also answered within four days, but, ladies and gentlemen, if we are asked how high the staffing level at every message is in every consular representation in 2007 and 2008, which is the exact budget in these years, we cannot answer it within four days. [[Abg. Scheibner: But not what I asked!]] I'm asking for understanding. There is no administrative burden that is so enormous. Mr Scheibner, you have received an answer from us, which clearly states what the average rates are as regards personnel in terms of costs, and this answer has also been given to you within four days. But I also ask for understanding that you must not exaggerate here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You can calculate the average, only the individual numbers not?- Oh, my God!]] I would like to address the comments of Mrs Lunacek, who referred to the audience. – Yes, that was a valuable experience for me. I took the consequences. If you look at our homepage, you can also see that, after an EU Council of Foreign Ministers, a statement can be found by me there, which was also seen and observed accordingly, and secondly, I can also tell you that in the implementation, we are not only doing this in the Council of Ministers on 9 May. In May the Commission decided, but much more so. There will be a dialogue tour again by me in autumn – not in the direction of listening, but in dialogue with the citizens, and the questions that are also important and which are discussed will be answered and spoken and answered. I will also invite the Commission as such on my visit to the Commission with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany tomorrow and request Commissioners to make themselves available for this tour in Austria. I think it is good that there is an opportunity to also discuss with Commissioners in Austria. If you do this here in Parliament, you will decide. [[Yes, and congratulation with the ÖVP.]] All in all, I thought it was a very good thing. The more debated about Europe, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e36504	The next item is the speech by Mr Grossruck. Fixed speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e36526	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to highlight a few aspects of foreign policy and, in particular, to deal with human rights. Many will probably not know – at least those who do not deal with it – that the Treaty of Lisbon, when ratified, also provides that the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union will be binding on human rights. The Union will join the European Convention on Human Rights. Human rights – we know – are indivisible and have to be indivisible, universal. Europe will become a driving force for the whole world. It is therefore also an advantage if the Treaty of Lisbon – I say quite consciously – is finally ratified once the Czech President has signed it or if the Iranians will vote in a referendum. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Human rights are indivisible, and this also applies to Christian persecutions, Mr. Federal Minister. We know that around 250 million Christians are persecuted worldwide – that is far too little attention. If you imagine to illustrate this: That is 30 times as much as Austria has inhabitants! And this Christian persecution is often ignored by the European public. Christians make up about 80 percent of all those who are threatened, abused, imprisoned or killed because of their faith; they are thus the largest affected religious community – in front of Muslims and Hindus. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying this because we can solve this here, but I say it here to also generate a corresponding awareness and also to encourage reflection that there are not only other religious communities that are persecuted but that the Christians are the main persecuted worldwide. I think you have to say that. According to the World Tracking Index of the U.S. Aid Organisation “Open Doors” there is in North Korea – see! – in Saudi Arabia and Iran, particularly frequent Christian persecution. I think it is our task to point out permanently and also to raise awareness that this is possible today, and not only, as we know about history, in ancient Rome. Ladies and gentlemen, the second point is the nuclear testing stop, just now triggered by the nuclear experiment in North Korea. We know there are contracts. We know that there are many countries that have concluded the Treaties, but unfortunately God has still not ratified this treaty. We know that President Obama wants it, but he doesn't have a majority in the Senate yet. The Soviet Union has already signed and ratified this Treaty. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Russia!]] I believe that it should also be our task here to insist that there is a worldwide acceptance of this Treaty, which, I believe, could take great fears, but also eliminate great dangers. A third point is the death penalty. Now the President of Mali was here, the state south-west of the Sahara, who has abolished the death penalty with a decree. We are now in the process of doing so by Parliament's decision. Madam President Prammer raised the death penalty quite openly last week on the visit of the Chinese President and also pointed out that Austria is an opponent of the death penalty. They are still available not only in China, ladies and gentlemen, but also in the United States. What prevents us from being even pioneers, credible pioneers, as we were at the antipersonnel mines, or at the scatter mines, where we were the first, and in the end this convention has now been ratified by many countries? [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The last point, ladies and gentlemen, that I would like to address is the Austrian Balkan policy. Mr Federal Minister, I am with you, and we all support you, and we are pleased that you, like your predecessor, have made Balkan policy your priority. Especially in front of our doorstep, in our neighbouring countries, in the Balkan countries, which were once closely associated with Austria, some were even parts of the monarchy, it is necessary to maintain a good neighborhood. It would be completely wrong here, as some have demanded, to stop the investments suddenly, to tell the banks: Get out of your investments in these countries because of the economic crisis! The greatest thing we've heard is: The banks themselves are guilty; why did they go down to these countries? – Ladies and gentlemen, I think you have to reject this strictly. What has been done here is to accompany our businesses down, it is a security of income, of distribution, of tax justice. I was once asked by the President of Albania, Sali Berisha, whether it was possible for the Raiffeisenbank to manage the accounts of the officials, the employees, because only by this would these countries have the opportunity to have control of what people really get in order to counter blackmail. I believe that it is our task to look at these countries in Europe in the economic crisis and, above all, after all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Please? Again! [[Abg. Dolinschek: We need to look at our economy!]] Yes, we do anyway, Dolinschek! Especially on the Hypo-Vereinsbank Carinthia, I think, we look very special, which has also been quite committed down there and which probably needs billions now due to misspectulations. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] Others who have been active in the East don't need that. That's just for information. Ladies and gentlemen! We have elections, it's Europe's election soon. Everyone talks about it, everyone wants to present himself – one as a popular lawyer, the other as Jeanne d’Arc in front with the flag, the third as – what does it say? – “Dear people’s representatives as Europe traitors” or something similar. I am redeeming you from the torment of choice... [[Abg. May. Lunacek: This is the “Marianne”, not the “Jeanne d’Arc”!]] Jeanne d'Arc! Jeanne d'Arc with the flag at the front. And you know, Mrs. Lunacek, what happened to the Jeanne d'Arc? [[Abg. May. Lunacek: This is not Jeanne d’Arc!]] Yes, you can take a lot of women from history – I'm now taking the Jeanne d'Arc. For me, it makes the impression that she is. [[call to the FPÖ.]] What is it? Down here the acoustics is bad, you have to talk a little louder, colleague. So I will deliver you from the torment of the election, ladies and gentlemen, whether you should choose the former popular lawyer or the Jeanne d'Arc: Whether Mölzer or Swoboda, whether Lunacek, or Staadla, now there is no pain of choice, there is only one this time. A patriot, a European, not a European Pharisee. What he says and what he does is proof: The man has courage. Drum, he's only right about the election because Dr. Strasser takes you seriously. In that sense!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e36674	The next item is the speech by Mr Kurzmann. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e36696	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since the weekend, there has been complete confusion over the EU-line of this federal government; the last speaker has already mentioned it. The top candidate for the Austrian People's Party, Mr. Strasser, first strongly opposed Turkey's accession to the European Union. On Sunday the news came, quite so he would not have understood, but he meant that it was not up-to-date because the negotiations were under way. On the same day, however, the list-second of the ÖVP, Mr Karas, spoke and meant that Turkey's entry into the European Union was more than likely, unless only a chapter were to be negotiated, and people should not be deceived. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr Plassnik]] The SPÖ summit candidate, Mr Swoboda, has also reported and has suddenly discovered his anti-Turkish resentments and said: The SPÖ is strongly opposed to Turkey's accession to the European Union! These are surprising messages that we heard this weekend! We liberals, of course, are pleased that ÖVP and SPÖ seem to be turning towards the reasonable line of the liberals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Apparently, you have recognized that non-European countries, such as Turkey or Israel or Morocco, certainly have nothing to look for in a European Union. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope it will not be difficult for you – and this is the sample of nails – to accept a motion for a resolution which I have tabled on behalf of my group and which has the following wording: The National Council wants to decide: “The competent members of the Federal Government are invited to take all measures at both national and European level in order to bring an immediate end to the negotiations between the EU and Turkey on their accession.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, another important issue I would like to address is the question: How does Austria deal with its minorities in the successor states of the former Austrian-Hungarian monarchy? Mr. Federal Minister, you said in the Subcommittee that you can imagine a project funding of the association “Brück” in Marburg. – What ladies and gentlemen really need there, Mr Federal Minister, but is a basic support, is a secretary, is an office. So if the remnants of our minority in the former Lower Austria mark would only get a hundredth of what the Austrian state of course makes available to the Carinthian Slovenians, then they would really be helped. Ladies and gentlemen, take an example of how other countries deal with their minorities! There is, for example, a Slovenian State Secretary for Slovenians abroad – “Foreign” now seen by Slovenians – for Slovenians in neighbouring countries of Slovenia. Or look at the support given by the Hungarian Government to its national minorities in Romania or also in Slovakia! This would be a model for how we should deal with our national minorities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that Austrian foreign policy has unfortunately remained ineffective, because for years, even for decades, we have called for the international recognition of the remnants of our minority, for example, in Slovenia. There has only been the Austrian-Slovene cultural agreement, which has not yet led to international recognition. For years we have also called for the abolition of the successor laws of the AVNOJ laws and the Beneš decrees, both in the successor states of Tito-Yugoslavia and in the former Czechoslovakia. Ladies and gentlemen, I can still remember very well how the then Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel said: With these acts of injustice these states will not be able to survive in a civilised European community of states! - We've seen: It hasn't changed since then! And this also shows quite clearly that Austrian foreign policy has so far failed to represent the interests of our minorities in a sustainable way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Spindelegger, I urge you not to imitate the example of your ÖVP colleagues, but to really express our interests.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e36835	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is linked to the subject of the negotiations and thus to the debate. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e36886	Next speech, Mr. Dr. Cap. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e36908	Mr President. High house! Especially for someone who considers the European Union to be a very important, historic institution and who has expressed a 100 percent vote in favour of membership of Austria in the European Union or who today is convinced that this decision was correct, it is important to deal very critically with various developments in the European Union. So I mean – point one –: If a large daily newspaper reports on misunderstandings, on money waste, a candidate even turns out to be an author there, then at least one should do at least all this – and not because he has written it, but because many others have already brought these criticism points into the European Parliament, including our colleague Bösch, who has done his job very well here – and evaluate this again and again. Indeed, the taxpayer is very sensitive if he believes that taxpayers are misused, or if it comes to the development of bureaucracies that are not justified by nothing, or to self-employment. It is also in decisions which can hardly be understood and which are, of course, linked to the use of taxpayers' money. This is a very important point, so that there is also greater confidence in the institutions of this European institution. And this has nothing to do with anti-European attitude! Second point: Some believe that the salvation of European development is always extended, extended, extended and extended. . I believe that the European Union still has work to do today, that there has been this rapid enlargement around these many countries, and that the Lisbon Treaty would certainly be a contribution to structure it now. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] But now one should finally keep up, apart from Croatia and Serbia, and there are few who believe that this is a crucial point and cannot be further developed ad infinitum. Therefore, I see no problem at all that this meeting in Prague was as busy as it was, because if it is discussed that there is a desire to grant visa freedom for six former Soviet republics, then I know that there is no majority in the population of the European Union, and I do not see any need for it either. By the way: To justify this by, among other things, guaranteeing energy security, I say: However, this also concerns Russia, where one is interested in an energy partnership. That's why I'm saying: I think it was reasonable that this meeting was not held high – and visa freedom cannot be spoken of. Thirdly and last point in this context, Turkey. We from the SPÖ are against Turkey's accession to the EU. I say that since these conclusions of the Brussels Presidency in December 2004, of course, a negotiation process has been initiated with the aim of accession. And I think that now there is the possibility, also due to the initiative of Merkel and Sarkozy, that this negotiation process should be amended with the aim of accession towards a privileged partnership. I believe that we should also work on a concept that includes the entire Mediterranean area, because this discussion that we have on Turkey will be right tomorrow about Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia and many other countries – right! - to be conducted. I think there should be special economic, yes, political relations here, and this would be a possibility that could and should be taken, and the Austrian Federal Government can also make a contribution. We all know the discussion process in the CDU and the CSU. The next government negotiations in Germany will certainly be marked by the fact that there is also a change here in this leading government party in Germany and it no longer wants to go this way towards Turkey's accession, but also towards a privileged partnership. This change is also noted in the SPD. It's obvious with Sarkozy. And if you remember the mood of the population in Europe, you have to say that there is no majority in any country for accession to Turkey. And one should have the honesty to inform the Turkish negotiators. There is also this development process in Turkey itself. The so-called progress reports on the negotiations with Turkey on the part of the European Union are also very critical. Take note, bar any other economic and other consideration that exists. It should now be noted that enlargement processes with regard to the European Union have long, long-term maturity, and it would only be fair to the people of Turkey, but also to the people of Turkey, to articulate this position.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37007	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37028	Thank you, Madam President. High house! I welcome Mr Faul, who has been listening for the first time since nine on the morning of the debate, in particular. Say hello, Mr. Faul! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am quite aware of the speech by the clubman of the SPÖ Group, who here said that the SPÖ was already opposed to Turkey's accession to the EU. - Listen, listen! Who can believe it, Mr. Klubobmann? I am already excited about how the EIA will respond to this with regard to the Coalition Agreement, whether one will set up a working group and whether you will also be willing to carry out a popular survey on this issue, such as in general all EU treaties. That's what it's all about. They also remained guilty of the answer. Mrs Lunacek, although I did not know exactly what you said in terms of content, but I just heard that you have terrible fear of the lawyer of the people, Volksanwalt Ewald Stadler, you talked about him for two minutes. Mr Stadler is really one! Ewald Stadler represents the interests of the people! He represents the interests of the people in Brussels rather than – like ÖVP and SPÖ – the interests of the corporations, lobbyists and trade unions, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] And this is the difference, because Ewald Stadler is the lawyer of the people, summary: People's attorney. Another difference is also, Mrs Lunacek: The public attorney of the BZÖ costs the taxpayers nothing. The lawyers of the Greens, the ÖVP and the SPÖ cost something. - What they're bringing is there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak now on the real issue. It is also very serious in the EU about solving the energy question on this continent. And this, my dear colleague Matznetter, is behind this government, because there are no accents in this regard. I do not want to blame Mr Spindelegger on this alone, because there is also an environmental minister, and there is also a German chancellor. On the question of energy, this Federal Government is categorically failing. We saw this in the gas crisis at the beginning of the year when Putin turned off the gas tap. The only thing the EU could do was say: Mr. Putin, turn the gas tap back on! And in the end, that was it. Here I expect one to develop concepts for developing supply concepts, for networking and for ensuring that we are no longer dependent on others in times of crisis on the part of the EU. And that must be more than one. giant gas pipelines such as Nabucco, which goes through crisis regions again. That's too little. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So you see, this federal government has not drawn any lessons from the gas crisis, just as the greens, who see the only solution to replace the light bulbs. Another point on the energy question is nuclear policy, and I repeat, I think, for the fifth time here from this point: Finally, bring in the international law lawsuit against the Czech Republic to equip TemelÃn with security technology! The National Council unanimously decided in December 2007 that this government is up to that point – with back cover from ÖVP and SPÖ here in this House. A next point, which appears to be substantial, is the chapter EURATOM. Mr Cap, you have spoken about the sensible use of taxpayers' money and also about the perceptibility of taxpayers. If I get a reply from my colleagues, Mr Hahn and Mr Faymann, after I have asked what EURATOM costs the Austrian taxpayer, and inside it says: Our name is “hare”, we don’t know!, that’s a shame. I can tell you what this costs: around €40 million a year. I demand that this government put the cards on the table and say what it costs, because 80 percent of Austrians reject EURATOM and want to get out of EURATOM to use this money for renewable energy, for sustainable energy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I looked at this because EURATOM is responsible for many things: for research, supposedly for improving safety, so that the scrap reactors in the East can be kept on the grid for longer, for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations, for security controls. And EURATOM only spends € 2.8 billion on research from 2007 to 2013. That's €400 million a year. If the EU contribution is high, that is only €7.5 million for research. If you add the other areas to it, you will come loosely to 40 to 50 million. So you know what size we're talking about. One last essential point – and this has become known again today – is: Our neighboring country, Czech Republic, currently headquartered in the EU, wants to build a nuclear waste camp almost directly next to my garden in the Mühlviertel, namely on an old troop practice site in the Czech Republic, on Lake Moldova. There you want to build a nuclear waste camp and store the fire sticks of TemelÃn and make other things – and doesn't even ask the neighbor, doesn't inform us. We'll find out from the press. I therefore ask, Mr Foreign Minister, that you, as Mr Faul has pointed out, but diplomatically endorses this, that in the Czech Republic you should cut the table properly and say to our Czech friends that you are not going to protest and demand that the Czech Republic withdraw these plans. If that does not happen, I would ask you to take action to ensure that this federal government takes appropriate legal action. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37177	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37232	Mrs Plassnik is now speaking with a 10-minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37253	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, to the honourable Member. Nicer: Mr Deputies, Austria is not a colonel cancer. We don't want to be a garden dwarf! And that's finally what your argument is: Everything's too expensive, everything costs too much! It's out of the way. Austria's security needs a solid foundation, and this foundation is a reliable, predictable foreign policy and European policy, and the Federal Government will pursue such a policy. That's important, and that's in our interest. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is an open and self-confident country, a European country, a country of good medium-sized countries in the international community, and we bring ourselves in, we bear responsibility. We simply cannot say goodbye to this responsibility in the Global Village, in the world village, where we are very closely connected with other countries. A former foreign minister hurts when someone is making fun of a United Nations mission in the Middle East, as you did. It really hurts when you are told that UNIFIL is a “disgusting quota”! – As I did a few days ago, go to the cinema with young people and watch the film “Sous les bombes”, a film about the Lebanon war; the German film title is “Im Bombenhagel”. In this film, you will see tens of thousands of people waiting for the first UNIFIL soldiers, waiting for UNIFIL soldiers to achieve at least a precarious balance, a precarious peace, a ceasefire. These are the topics – and you don't need to make fun of them here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] Now on the subject of Turkey, which has been discussed several times here, and I already need to say something here on the subject of Turkey. First of all, there is no reason for the government parties to depart from the line formulated in the government programme. I now quote from the government programme, because obviously this is a little forgotten: ‘Austria has maintained that the Union’s capacity to accept is a criterion and that negotiations with Turkey have an open outcome. We are committed to a step-by-step approach with the aim of a tailor-made Turkish-European Community. The Austrian citizens will have the last word in a referendum with Turkey’s objective of accession in a referendum.” Every word has been carefully calculated, ladies and gentlemen, and there is no reason to deviate from it – and I will now explain to you why. Austria, we Austrians have insisted that EU negotiations with Turkey have made the eligibility to accept a criterion. This was not a matter of course, ladies and gentlemen, and I can tell you that I felt very strongly the resistance of all other EU members at the time. It was also important – and this has also enforced Austria – for EU negotiations to begin with Croatia. It would have been absurd – we see this in the light of the negotiation process – to start negotiations with Turkey first and then or not with Croatia. – This is also an Austrian performance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have maintained that there is a second option, in practice. More was not to be achieved at the time, but after all, this second approach, which, in addition to joining, also opens up a second option, was our concern, and that is what we have on our own – against all the others! ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So much to feelings of inadequacy or to the feeling that Austria cannot move, do nothing in the EU. – That’s not true! We can, if we act energetically, if we trust to have our own Austrian line and to stick to this line, ladies and gentlemen. We have also enforced a negotiating corset with Turkey, which has never been in this form before – very criticised by many of our friends – something that enables us to take care in practice and with due care. This is proven, ladies and gentlemen: Eight chapters are now suspended in these negotiations with Turkey because Turkey cannot demonstrate the progress it has made in its policy! That is a right way, that is a good way, which is a way that Austria has taken in the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am therefore also surprised by what Mrs Grossmann said here, who, if I have understood her correctly, thanked Mrs Merkel and Mr Sarkozy very much. Both politicians, which I very much appreciate, but, honestly, you are running into open doors, because at that time, in 2005, when the position was to be maintained: second option, open negotiations, capacity to accept, there was no mention of Merkel or Sarkozy. That was the Europe of Blair, Schröder and Chirac. At that time, very early, we Austrians got through; later other people of this line followed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore do not really understand what this ques tion is about, we do not want accession negotiations, but only more negotiations. – This is the case in the documents that have been in place for some time. There other people have changed their position, but we Austrians are not – and we have no reason to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's just not right!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is already important to comment on this because: A termination of accession negotiations or negotiations, as we have always mentioned, does not solve any of the problems that we now have in Austria. Yes, there are problems, ladies and gentlemen, yes, there are problems with the boys, there are problems in integration, there are huge deficits in individual areas: in language training, also there and there at local level. I hear that because I'm out on the so-called base a lot on the way. Yes, there are concerns; Worry, for example, of young people who do not always find it easy to deal with their peers who have a Turkish or other background. Therefore: We need to help these young people, we need to support them; Deficiencies must be reduced in our country, in the communities, wherever it comes to it. – Now to take a cowardly curve and to believe that one can spread sand into the eyes of the people through an an-de-horizont post of the end of the negotiations with Turkey, so to speak as a solo asparagus, which, ladies and gentlemen, is hypocritical – and we reject that. That goes beyond the real problem! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Let us deal with the problems that we really have; let us go about them; let us be honest! We are simply guilty of this to the citizens. [[Call at BZÖ:The ÖVP has no line!]] Peace policy, ladies and gentlemen, needs appropriate tools. Mr Hübner – we have said that we have studied Jus together – you have said that you do not know what these many UN missions and these many EU missions are all about, but I say to you: I am proud that Austria is showing solidarity in the world, for I know that the Austrians are solidarity people – and they want this to be expressed accordingly by their government! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] – I would like to give you a very personal private body to bring you up to date. I'll do that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Don't be so superlative!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] To the representation network; of course you can discuss everything. – Mr Spindelegger, I would like to congratulate you on the decision to open an Austrian embassy in Baku. This is important for Austrian politics, including for the opportunities of the Austrian economy. It is always bitter to lock up a representative authority because it is a matter of public service. I am pleased that Mr Vilimsky is now back in the hall; he was the one who was in distress at the Rhine, in the city of Saint Ursula, in Cologne. He wanted to land there, but he did not succeed – and he immediately turned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We helped. [[Abg. Vilimsky: No one helped!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: No one helped! That's a smooth lie!]] Citizens' Service, Quality Management – all cost-saving –: This is the quality mark of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. And I congratulate the employees in this important and demanding place. Let me close with a quote, a quote I owe to Klaus Maria Brandauer. It's a quote that's good at 7. June fits – I quote –: I am even making an election recommendation here, for Europe. Only those who believe in Europe can help! This, ladies and gentlemen, should be taken to heart in the interest of our youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37428	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. I'll set the clock to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37449	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Plassnik, as far as Turkey is concerned, I have said otherwise to your EP candidate Strasser. [[Abg. Head: That was exactly the same on Sunday!]] And I understood him so that the negotiations with Turkey should be terminated. And the second candidate of your party, Mr Karas, I understood that he is a party to the Treaty of the European Union. I don't make a murderer's pit out of my heart: My sympathy in this case applies to Mr Karas. Turkey has been in the waiting room for 40 years of the EEC, the EC, the European Union. And the Union must consider changing its position over the night, Mr Cap. I would ask you not to go over it so easily, but also to consider what Turkey's options are in the event of a cold shoulder of the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Partnership! Partnership!]] Yes, yes, “partnership. ” No human has so far been able to explain to me what this is, the ‘privileged partnership’. Perhaps it is what the English will get if they do not stop viewing the European Union as “the continent” – that is, the whole other thing. Perhaps we can discuss this too. But actually I wanted to say something about the budget. I mean, all these high ambitions which Mrs Plassnik has rightly done here to meet with this budget is, I do not think, possible. I wanted to give a very brief speech because the budget is very small. You can't say a lot about this tiny budget. I mean wanting to drive European, international foreign policy at €440 million a year – that's where the most essential thing goes, but more can't be done! And I believe that any additional savings will go to the substance of Austrian foreign policy. I am convinced that many ladies and gentlemen in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the embassies, are already literally going to the consulates on gums. Mr Scheibner, I think, has mentioned the “saving” – under quotation marks – of a State Secretary. That's just a symptom. Of course we need a State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! Other countries have a foreign minister, a minister of Europe, several secretaries of state. Yes, then, under such circumstances, Mr Schüssel, one can also demand that we are also politically high-ranking at every rather important international conference. Mr Spindelegger will not be able to tear himself down by himself. I just can't do that. So my condolences, Mr Foreign Minister! I asked you, and you then answered the question of how high the additional expenditure for Austria is in the Security Council. Austria will now be represented in the United Nations Security Council for two years, I believe. And you answered me that the staff in New York and so on were strengthened. These reinforcements had been made by temporary retransmissions. Additional costs are not included. Well, as an economist, I can only say that this is an incorrect answer, Mr Minister – inadvertently, I submit to you. You meant: This does not entail additional budgetary costs. - Yes, it may be. I believe you are. But additional real costs arise very well! Of course! The economists call this something opportunity costs, opportunity costs – I don't know if there is a better German expression. That is, this staff, which you are extra postponing here, the time, the Effort, the effort for overtime et cetera, have been taken away elsewhere. That's the real cost! – So I think it is quite negligent to seek a seat in the Security Council without taking appropriate care of the budgetary side. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is precisely the same that you see very well in the policy of the so-called reworks you have carried out. I do not doubt your data as to the message in Oman. But de facto that means that we open an additional message in Baku, unless I'm wrong, and an additional consulate in Frank-fort and block a message for it in the Arab region, and three general consulates, one in South America, one in South Africa and one in Hamburg. – Well, these are the real costs of reducing the effectiveness of Austrian foreign policy. Sorry, guys! I mean, without money, there can be no good Austrian foreign policy, even though all the ladies and gentlemen in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are still so hard on themselves. Especially in the Arab area, it may already be that there are few tourists, in Oman and so on. But the messages I know in the Arab region are anything but over-occupied, which are quantitative and qualitatively under-occupied in view of the importance of this space. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Count your heads and see how many people there among the ladies and gentlemen, for example, can have Arabic and Arab experiences! – This is negligent, I find, as far as Austrian interests are concerned, but not only Austrian interests, but also, of course, what we are there for, among other things: to ensure security and to strive for peace. In the Committee, we suddenly had a subject that I was not aware of until then, but which I consider extremely annoying, useless and counterproductive: Fingerprints on visa applications. I do not know who came to this idea in the EU, who broke his head over it, how this might affect Russian tourists in the winter of Austria. These sluts can then, we say, drive from Nizhni Novgorod to Moscow to apply for their visa, give their thumb print, return to come to Austria sometime, but not too long later, for otherwise the fingerprint or the visa no longer applies. So I think it's adventurous! If at all, then the Ministry of the Interior should take over the cost of such a thing, but not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! It is not a question of the genius of Austrian foreign policy to take fingerprints! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But of course, who will be responsible? The consulates and the messages! This is a clear misallocation of the important resources of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to deal with such a mutilation! On this occasion, if you still wish to comment, Mr Foreign Minister: What about visa freedom for the Balkan countries? Whenever I talk to ex-Yugoslav politicians, they say: Yes, under Tito, we have still been able to travel freely throughout Europe, but now we need a visa, with very few exceptions! – What kind of friendship with the Balkan countries is this, except for Austria, not to be more committed? [[Abg. Hornek: The comparison with Tito is...!]] As usual, a comment on liberal positions: Whenever I pass by the poster that the EU is talking about – it's rhyming on something, I've forgotten what – I think: [[Call to the Greens: “Stars”!]] And if the EU did not exist, what would we have against the international groups? What? We here, not even 2% of the Union population, will, of course, enter the huge success all by ourselves, perhaps with the cross in hand, against dominant companies such as Microsoft and Intel. [[Call the ÖVP:The Cross!]] [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] If someone is doing something here – I am not saying that this will succeed in each individual case, but if someone is doing something here, it is the European Commission within the framework of the rules of the internal market! [[Abg. Vilimsky: “Bravo”! – No one will choose you anymore!]] And you want to take the money away from them? There is a real need for qualified staff to hold a company like Microsoft, I do not want to say that “put the handcraft,” but to block it accordingly in its dominant position. It really needs money for that! And whoever wants to take that away from the EU really cuts it into the meat of Austrian interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37584	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37606	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This year 2009 is marked by many commemorative days. I'm just reminding you: 60 years of the Council of Europe – 60 years ago on 5th. The Council of Europe was founded in May – 50 years of the European Court of Human Rights, 200 years of Andreas Hofer – for Mr Huber – and it has been 20 years since the wall fell. [[Abg. Huber:... Tirol!]] [[Abg. Grosz: 2009 in the wake of the crocodile!]] In this context, the following is a very important matter: It is always spoken of by the European Values, and here the Council of Europe has played a very important role in the Convention on Human Rights, Mr Grosz, and it is a very important institution for citizens. We have already talked about the People's Procuratorate today, and it is often the last anchor to turn to the European Court of Human Rights for many people everywhere where their own, where the domestic arrest was exploited. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... the Stadler!]] [[Abg. Grosz: We have the Stadler anyway!]] And that's why: 50 years of the European Court of Human Rights – an important achievement here in Europe for the enforcement of human rights standards on our continent! Mr Grossruck has already pointed out today how important the fight in Europe against the death penalty is. The Council of Europe now has 47 Member States. In Europe, 45 Member States no longer accept the death penalty, nor are they legally established; in two Member States it is still there, but it is certainly no longer enforced. And this is a success story! In this context, Mr Grossruck mentioned the role of President Prammer that she pointed out in the last year's visit to China's Prime Minister that the death penalty, or that it is executed in China, is not in line with our values. That was an important and correct statement about our attitude. I do not wish to mention the fact that, where the death penalty is very well executed, not only once, but more often, in the United States, as Austria, we have taken the position of Austria, in the person of the President of the National Council, who has shown a very much respected exhibition at the cultural institute in New York about a year and a half ago, and has not been silent about the position of Austria and has presented it accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a great deal of talk today about Turkey's accession, about Turkey's accession to the European Union, and the former Foreign Minister Plassnik has stated that the conclusions of the Brussels Presidency on 16-17. It was said that the negotiations were an open-ended process whose outcome could not be guaranteed in the past. – That is true, but the first sentence of what was set out in these conclusions should be said in the light of the truth, namely: The common objective of the negotiations is accession. - That's what's inside. And here you have to be able to think and think about and let the new positions go through the head very well. And I also remember that the SPÖ, for example, in 2004 – Mr Widmann was not yet in Parliament at the time; if he has forgotten or has not read it – has already advocated a strategic partnership when the accession negotiations in the European Union were decided.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37685	Mr Weinzinger is now speaking at a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37707	Estimated President! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor, Mrs Mag. Worm, has forgotten two more data. One is: 150 years of red cross; and the other: This year 90 years ago, the Treaty or the dictatorship of Saint Germain entered into force. This year, in this Parliament, we have adopted our Members from the Sudeten countries, including those from the Sudeten countries, indicating that we will do everything we can to restore the right to represent their people in this House. My neighbor, whom I belong to, is called Bruna Sudetia. It was founded in 1871 by students from Brno and the Sudeten countries. That about 50 percent of the founders of Jewish origin were Jewish, be it noted only on the verge, but has a lot to do with what I have to say in total. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] The development at that time forced these people into the situation that they were more and more venomed due to the anti-Semitic attitude of society as a whole. It resulted in the final effect that they and their descendants, their grandsons and great-grandparents, were cruelly persecuted in the framework of the “Third Reich” and the Second World War, threatened in life, took part in their lives and lost their property, their property, their right, their right to life and everything. - You know that. After 1945, we, also this state, also we, the Republic of Austria, until today not only thought of these people, we have not only knocked on our breasts, namely, honestly, but also made sure that there is at least at least, in part, a charge for this injustice for the descendants. - That's the one side. The other side, ladies and gentlemen, is that we all know that, after 1945, the German population from the Sudeten countries, and from Brno, for example, for example, was also abducted, was also expropriated, also largely lost their lives in a cruel expulsion action. There is no reparation there, there is no restoration of the right, there are no excuses there, there is nothing there. There is simply the happiness that at least part of the displaced population has been able to save life. And that's still true today. I also miss in this house that we remember not only the displaced, who were in part with us, who were our citizens until 1919, but also that at least we are trying to give them their right afterwards. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It has recently handed over a very high order to a very high representative of the Czech Republic, a very high award from our Republic – a very high representative of the Czech Republic, who is committed to the Beneš decrees and who considers them to be correct; those decrees which were the basis for the expulsion, those decrees which were the basis for the renunciation and also for the murder of 250 000 completely innocent people. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever acknowledges today that the right thing is that this decree justifys the expulsion, the cruel expulsion, can not be granted by our Republic, which, 90 years ago, promised our help to the later displaced and right-wing people, he cannot receive from this of our Republic an all-embracing state award! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, I am fully aware that this can no longer be reversed, but I urge you and all those responsible in this state to think a little more about what our moral duty is.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37779	Mr Glaser is now speaking. 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37800	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Some preliminary remarks before I come to the budget: First of all, the development policy of the liberals. Two months ago, in a brochure of the North-South dialogue in this Parliament, Mr Hübner explicitly praised the project completion of Austrian development cooperation. He then demanded conditions for development cooperation, but a few weeks later he then or the FPÖ was of the opinion that development cooperation could be removed at all. We now have a request to cut down dramatically and establish a new system of development aid, but in no way has there been any indication of how this should happen. – In my view, this is a moral step that you are taking from the FPÖ here, and it is not only a moral step back, it is also economic nonsense in my eyes. We can stand to the developing countries, to the emerging countries, as we want, the fact is: They are economically weak, but they are countries that have economic growth, partly not so bad, even now in times of crisis – but we have absolutely no growth but a decline. I therefore find it absolutely absurd that we should withdraw completely from these markets – these are markets for us too. Instead, I think it makes sense that we are also represented there. And it is often the coordination offices of the ADA that are the only one that is really present in these countries. So I think it makes sense to really be present in the developing countries on the ground. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the topic of migration. It is true that migration is falling somewhat, not least because of the fact that as a target country we are no longer so interesting. Apparently – I have this from newspapers – some refugee camps on Mediterranean islands – thank God! I want to say – half empty. [[Abg. Weinzinger: What ‘migration’? – The immigration or emigration?]] That is to say, it is quite clear that we can only solve migration problems if we offer better opportunities for development to people who want to come to us and have a better life in their countries of origin. This also serves development policy. I believe that we will never solve the migration problem by raising barbed wire or by trying to draw borders with the military, but we will always be able to develop and solve this in one co-operation – for the benefit of all of us. A next point, which has been present several times over the past few days. It seems to establish such a kind of “neocolonialism” by buying up rich countries, preferably oil countries, but also China and South Korea, in huge quantities of land and land in southern countries. There goes in millions of hectares. These produce in these new possessions, of course, not for the local people, but for the people in their countries and for their purposes and for their economic interests. I believe that we must also be careful not to create new dependencies, to ensure that the inhabitants of the developing countries do not get under the wheels. I have already come to the specific budget and I would like to say that this is quite simply about development cooperation, which is premise that it should be aid for self-help. I think that we should not really let ourselves be blamed by some NGOs, even by individuals, namely that we are abandoning people in the developing countries. The opposite is the case! We, Austria, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, stand on our commitments especially in the priority countries where we are present. This shows that we can keep the budget for development cooperation within the same framework. I think it was not easy for the Foreign Minister to enforce it at all. I would like to express my express thanks to him for remaining at the disposal of a quarter of the total budget of the External Office for Development Cooperation. Although we will not achieve the 0.51 percent in 2009 and 2010, this goal has reached a few times in the past years and will still be in short reach in the years 2009 and 2010. It won't be so bad. I believe that we must be aware that we must also keep this state of affairs because the economic crisis is particularly affecting the countries of the south, the weakest – and these are certainly the least able to do so. I am therefore convinced that we should try together to make every effort to make the most of our potential in all areas of development cooperation, because I believe that many countries of the South would not be able to make the necessary investments in health, education and infrastructure if we did not make the appropriate funds available to them. Indeed, it is often criticized by the Freedom Party that half of the public budgets consist of development funds. If this were not possible, then there would be nothing in many areas in these countries. We also need to be aware of that. I would also like to say that not only in Austria we fulfil our duty with our 100 million bilateral development cooperation. We are contributing to the resources Europe is making in this context. A total of €8 billion is invested in development cooperation. Austria contributes a more disproportionate contribution of 2.6 percent, which is to the €200 million. So that's not to despise either. I believe that we should not forget, above all, one thing, namely that this year's donation will be effective for the first time. Personally, I hope and believe that this will provide additional resources for development cooperation. Indirectly, the State also makes a contribution to development cooperation. I also believe that we can say very well and have to say that the Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank, which has often been criticized in its birth, has established itself in the meantime and is doing good work. Finally, I would like to conclude with two remarks. In particular, it is important to have two things in the field of development cooperation: We must ensure that in developing countries the sovereignty in the field of food production and energy production is guaranteed as much as possible and that there is as little dependence on foreign countries as possible. I believe that this is an essential contribution to self-development in these countries. I would also like to mention that the three-year work programme is making a major contribution here, with the focus on “permanent development”. With regard to energy supply, I would not like to mention that it was a section in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the section of Mrs. Dr. Irene Freudschütz-Reichl, which is particularly responsible for the use of renewable energy in developing countries massively and in addition. We, Austria, the Foreign Office, are now trying to bring the International Energy Agency for Renewable Energy to Vienna. I don't think she'd be better placed anywhere than here in Vienna. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Personally, it is still important to me to note that we already need a fair partnership in the area of trade and economic and political cooperation with our partner countries in the south. I also believe that we already need direct budget support, but even more important is the exchange of ideas and people between countries, because only then – in an ever smaller and closer world – can people come into contact with each other and exchange themselves if we develop together for the benefit of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37864	Mr Huber is now speaking at five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e37885	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear audience on the ranks! For me, it is incomprehensible how it is possible that for a large part of development aid massive budget increases are planned – as you can plan – but managed by the Finance Minister. The Foreign Minister has nothing to do with this! It would be much, much more sensible if all these funds could be made reasonable for a formable and bilateral work, as is the case with the ADA in the budget. I would strongly recommend to Mr Spindelegger that he sees that he also comes to such funds that he can manage them in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If you look at the budget yourself a little bit, you see: The staff expenditure for the embassies finally had smaller savings in 2007 and 2008. There are 14 percent plus in 2009, there are massive wage increases. Why that is, I don't know, it wasn't answered either. If we look at the expenses for renting the messages, it should be noted that they will rise by €5 million in 2009. In my opinion, this is very, very much money; there is a potential for savings that is not used. In the 2009 budget alone, € 5 million is planned for price differences. Since, I have to say, the euro is either in danger or something else is paid with this budget item. I can't quite understand that. It is important, Mr Federal Minister, that we finally advocate that this visa trade be discontinued, that the castle and barge be pushed forward. A short time for development cooperation – I am quite right for my previous speaker: It would be fatal to save massively. However, much more attention must be paid to the fact that the Austrian businesses that create SMEs are also involved so that we really have bilateral cooperation, which also benefits the Austrian economy. If we look at other countries, some of which have 60 percent of the development aid budget available, we cannot agree to that. Let us look at the dual nature of the Federal Government in the example of the EURATOM Treaty! That's where we pay €40 million a year. In the Committee, Mr Federal Minister, you said that you did not come out, that is a treaty with the EU. I wonder what development cooperation – where a contract with the EU obliges us to make 0.51 percent of the gross domestic product available – and we miss this in Weitem! – our federal government is worth it. The EURATOM Treaty, where the funds are made available to the nuclear industry, is bound by EU contracts. However, when it comes to human life, when it comes to boosting the economy there, so that we can give the people of their home country a future and thus prevent migration, it does not matter. There each EU Treaty is almost written in the wind. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This federal government does nothing – I notice this massively in Tyrol – to finally introduce protective duties. I was at the Stubai Metalworks last week, producing tools. Your mason cell costs 1,50 € in production. In some Austrian supermarkets, Chinese cell sales are now – and that's everybody's known – by €1.20 that are dangerous to health. There is already the question: Why is the Federal Government watching? The Chamber of Commerce has been aware of these massive problems for five years. By the way, the ÖVP does nothing at all. That needs to be changed. I believe that it is because of that, Brussels, the ÖVP and the SPÖ, that they are ruling against the people. I think this is our popular lawyer, Mag, too, with regard to the EU election. Ewald Stadler, really a guarantee to represent all the people's interests. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Where is he?]] [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: He's not here, unfortunately! ...!]] The BZÖ is also massive for the introduction of a speculant tax. Mr Commissioner of the ÖVP, I understand your excitement because I believe that the ÖVP is threatening to tear it down. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] When I look at how different you are in the opinions today: Ex-EU Commissioner Franz Fischler publicly says that every farmer should look for a side job. Minister Berlakovich said: I'll try to fight every job. – But in reality you are torn in the ÖVP: The former Foreign Minister is in favour of joining the EU, Mr Strasser is opposed to joining the EU. [[Abg. Grill: We are already with the EU!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Should we join again?- Oh, my God!]] I ask you to: Let's stop right now! I would like to make the following request in this direction: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Call the ÖVP:Maurerkellenbeit!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it would be much more reasonable if we first negotiated further cooperation with Turkey and not accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38027	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38106	Mrs Bayr has now come to speak with 3 minutes of desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38128	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I don't want to make a murderer's pit from my heart. The development of our ODA is unfortunate, even embarrassing, I would say. The economic crisis is not an excuse for this. On the contrary, it is actually a task to be all the more active in development cooperation, because in reality it is the poorest countries that are particularly affected by this crisis that they have not caused. I think – because this has been discussed more often today – that development policy is not part of the cut-off programme, but, in many ways, part of the mandatory programme: for example, from a simple and simple ethical and moral consideration. From a humanitarian point of view, we cannot ignore the fact that a billion people live in poverty, that 960 million people are starving, and that millions of people on this earth have no development, no chance of life. To say here: If nothing goes to us, because they are far away!, I immediately get to the next commitment, to a political commitment. It's perfectly logical that in a globalized world, we're not on the point of view: We don't care about poverty if it leads to social unrest, we don't care, it doesn't matter, it's elsewhere! – Of course it concerns us! It concerns us directly and indirectly due to the imbalance of development and economy as well as due to migration pressure in Europe, the USA and elsewhere. So it affects us in a variety of ways. The third obligation that we have in this context is that we have entered into international agreements, for example, the legally binding contract, which obliges us to spend 0.7 percent of our gross national income for development cooperation by 2015. We did this not from Jux and Tollery, but from insight and from political reason, because it is necessary to achieve the Millennium Development Goals – that is, to reduce massive poverty, to fight hunger, to enable children to have primary education, to minimize infant mortality, maternal mortality, and much more. I think any crisis – including the crisis of the Austrian development cooperation budget – should be understood as an opportunity. The fact that we have now set out five-year forecasts in our budget has at least the possibility that we can plan ahead over time and see how budgets – and also the development budget – can develop. I am very impressed that the Ministry of Finance is able to do so in multilateral development cooperation. Due to binding contracts, it is quite possible to make concrete financing commitments to the international development banks, the World Bank or the Monetary Fund by 2021 or 2023 and, accordingly, to plan budgets. I would also like this to be a bilateral development policy. I really hope that with these examples we will have an improvement, to a more predictable development of our cash benefits. I would not have gone into politics if I had not given up the hope that there is still a lot of development potential for us in Austria in the Austrian budget. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38179	Now comes Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38200	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen from the FPÖ, you are, figuratively speaking, certainly quite clear what the difference between a Wiener Schnitzel and Austria is – even though it sometimes looks similar from the form. The Wiener Schnitzel is mostly alone on the plate. Sometimes it is accompanied by a supplement or potato salad, but it is delimited. Austria is not demarcated. Austria is not alone in this world, it is bordered by eight neighbouring countries – every school child knows that. It is globally networked, and this global networking has brought us enormous prosperity in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] At this time, to say that the development aid, the funds for development cooperation, should be reduced or left behind at all, I consider extremely negligent – even cynical. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: The application is cynical!]] For decades, we have benefited not only from the political turnaround in south-eastern Europe, but above all from globalisation. We were and we are global beneficiaries. Now, if we just give up the global responsibility at the border or at the edge of the plate, that's unbearable. The economic crisis has now spread around the world like an oil carpet, with the poorest countries being particularly burdened. After a few better years – it was possible to counter the acute poverty of 300 million people – there is now a massive breakdown again. If I speak now of about 400,000 children who, according to World Bank calculations, will die in addition because of the current crisis, and of the fact that 100 million people will fall into poverty, these are no reasons to withdraw from the affair and simply withdraw from development cooperation and hold back the funds for it. Indeed, there will continue to be negative effects of climate change, falling raw materials prices in connection with the economic crisis, an increase in disease and also a decrease in transfers of those host workers who work all over the world and send their money home. It's not a horror scenario, it's reality! So as one of the richest countries – Mr Schüssel has mentioned this – we want to approach the Millennium target in the next few years somewhat as we want to get in this direction, that is questionable, Mr Minister, especially since the previous figures in development cooperation are actually a mogel pack. The current level of development aid is 0.2 per cent. In 2008, Austria was the only EU country whose development assistance benefits have fallen. And this sad trend continues, Mr Glaser, because next year the ADA has a 2% reduction in funds available, the foreign disaster fund is expected to do so. That means that it will not be better, we will no longer have money for development cooperation. To return to durability: I do not think we can afford not to provide development aid. Hunger and energy and climate crisis allow us nothing but money to flow into development aid as well as to promote projects and innumerable initiatives. The ability to donate, which sometimes sometimes comes as an argument that it can, as it were, be in addition to development aid in some way, cannot be justified. This is not for development aid – nor for development cooperation. I'm sure that's not an argument. Austrians are very happy to donate, they are also happy to use the fair traded products and are very open to the problems and concerns of people around the world – I think, often more open than their representatives in politics. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore more than embarrassing if, in times of recession, we do not manage to look at the edge of the plate when some of the unbearable Mir-san-mir humanity in politics is concerned with social responsibility and, above all, the political design of lower arguments. We must not take responsibility! We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38280	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38332	Now comes Mrs Mag. Muttons. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38359	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! A few comments on the budget, namely the budget for foreign culture. While the budget of the Foreign Office for 2009 and 2010 has basically moderate increases, there is a profound financial cut in the donation of foreign culture. For example, spending on foreign cultural policy will be reduced by €7.6 million in 2008 by €6 million to €6.7 million in 2009 and €6.6 million in 2010. I am already aware that in economically tense times every department has to accept cuts, but I believe that art and culture are being underestimated as an economic potential and thus as an engine of employment-intensive economic sectors, and I am not just saying this as a cultural speaker. Mr Spindelegger spoke of a painful reduction in the committee, and I can only agree with him. Furthermore, it has been announced that the ministry will strive to find sponsors to make this failure happen. I very much hope that this will succeed, but I fear that it will be very difficult to achieve in such economically difficult times as this project. The cuts in the budget for foreign culture are very unfortunate and I believe that they are also counterproductive. After all, these funds are used to finance our cultural business card abroad. Austria's image in the world is influenced by culture, so it is stated on the homepage of the Foreign Ministry on foreign culture. It also says: Foreign cultural policy is an investment in the future of Austria. – I can only point out both sentences unconditionally. Austria's art abroad is supported by a wide network of cultural forums, libraries, institutes and also the cultural activities of the embassies. An additional strengthening of foreign cultural activities will probably not be possible with this budget. This is very unfortunate given the international importance of cultural exchange and intercultural dialogue, but also the contribution to the prevention and management of crises, this is quite a step back. We should participate more and more in it and be involved in the debate with society in the debate about the future of Europe, yes the world, and the cultural level is a good opportunity to conduct this discussion and to formulate, make visible and tangible views, directions and visions. The commitment to cultural diversity in a strong social Europe must be our goal. We can directly influence and co-form the EU level. But you need a team that can work constructively and not just startle fears. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that more understanding will be given to foreign culture policy and to the importance of this area in the future, both nationally and internationally. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38424	Mr Neubauer has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38447	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! The federal state of Tyrol remembers the events of 1809 in the commemorative year 1809 – 2009. But also total tyrol, which is also our fellow countrymen from the south, our South Tyrol friends, still remember the disintegration of the country of Tyrol. Given the events in recent months mainly in southern Tyrol, of course, the question of what the future of Tyrol can look like in a new Europe, such as the future of Tyrol, embedded in a democratic constitution, can be integrated into a common Tyrol. We liberals have a very independent and long-term position to do so. We refer to the decision of the National Council's Committee on Foreign Policy of 1 January 1990. On October 1, 1946, where it was unanimously stated that the autonomy of the South Tyroleans was seen as a transitional solution, but not as a permanent solution. The permanent solution can only be to uphold the right of self-determination under international law, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because this is the case and because this decision of the National Council's Foreign Policy Committee has never been repealed and is therefore fully valid, we are also very clear about the right of self-determination of the South Tyroleans. We call from here on finally to bring about compliance with the national unit of the three parts of Tyrol. That must clearly be the message for the future of this Tyrol! We want to reach the state unit of Tyrol again! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For this reason, we have – as the only party – also issued a communiqué for this commemorative year, in which we clearly demonstrate our positions on this subject. We do not at all think of starting from our demand for the indivisible right to self-determination for South Tyrol. Then: What for Kosovo, what Greenland, what is possible for other countries in Europe, this must also be possible for South Tyrol in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We can see that autonomy has brought attention to South Tyrol. Of course, we have also found that a large population has benefited greatly from this autonomy. We have also seen that it has brought strong prosperity. But one thing must not be overlooked either: Of course, this autonomy has also brought progressive assimilation. It has also accelerated the loss of the Tyrolean identity. That should not be overlooked in all euphoria, ladies and gentlemen. In the Tyrolean commemorative year 180 – 2009, the question has also been raised as to how we hold it with the implementation of this commemorative year. We believe, in contrast to other political parties, that taking the thorn crown in the arrest in September is, of course, an hour's commandment. The Dornkrone naturally reminds the Tyrolean population of the constant and still immanent tear of the state of Tyrol, and as such it has the full right to be carried along. And we will help the South Tyrolean shooters to live up to it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I welcome the initiative of the Italian Minister, who is excited after Bolzano, to bring clarity into the current discussion, namely Minister Roberto Maroni. It is unfortunate, however, that the head of South Tyrol did not take the step to introduce a round table, the Round Table, which had been promised to the South Tyrol shooters already three-quarters ago, so it did not come about and therefore further demonstrations – justified as I mean – take place in order to stand up against fascist relics in South Tyrol. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] He has not fulfilled this task. That's the truth! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] And it is a shame for the Greens – I stress it again – that they are in South Tyrol for the preservation of fascist relics. This is a scandal that really seeks the same! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a liberal, we will therefore repeatedly demand that the defence function be enshrined in the Austrian Constitution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] We will continue to call for all those who fall under this Rules of Procedure to receive dual citizenship, that is, for Austria. We will continue to support the fact that after 40 years, forced murderers will finally be brought to the fair punishment, so that they are also sought internationally by the Austrian authority, as is the case with Christian Kerbler. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, I wish the Tyroleans all the best for the future. Live Tyrol! Live South Tyrol!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38568	Mr Wenninger has now come to speak. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38589	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Mr. Minister of Defence! Live the Republic of Austria! [[Accompaniment with SPÖ as well as Jawohl-Ruf and accompaniment of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in this foreign policy debate we have today been presented with a colorful panoptic of foreign policy ideas: very many profound proposals due to a tense budgetary situation, but also some statements that must not be contradicted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the beginning of the debate, for example, Mr Hübner said that we should in principle question foreign policy. He questioned more or less the Austrian peace commitment and the cooperation in international organisations – a position that does not help anyone, a position that damages the reputation of the Republic of Austria in Europe and worldwide. The colleague Lutz, who is advocating the Austrian Constitution Weinzinger spoke of the "Diktat of Saint Germain" – a formulation which, among other things, led to the fact that democracy in the First Republic could never be established and finally the First Republic in Austrofascism and in the Nazi regime went down. Ladies and gentlemen, in front of us is a request from the BZÖ entitled ‘Destruction of EU accession negotiations with Turkey’. I would like to remind you of how the BZÖ behaved in its time of government in 2004: If Ewald Stadler actually enters the European Parliament, then as a mandate whose party in the Government decided in 2004 to open accession negotiations with Turkey with the determined objective of full membership in the European Union. – That in memory of the BZÖ. I would like to say to the colleagues of the FPÖ: They present themselves here and in the election campaign to the European Parliament as the revenges of the servants and the righthearted. But I would like to remind you that it was you who were the conservative Liberal Alliance in Austria and Europe, which prevented social-democratic advances in the regulation of the financial market, control of hedge funds and derivatives and taxation of capital transfers in the European Union in 2002. They have accused us of trying to intervene in the market. You said we weren't in the 21st century. Arrived at the end of the century, our regulatory measures would endanger the free market. At the time, you prevented the social-democratic advances in the European Parliament, and today you are creating yourself and demand exactly what you have previously deliberately prevented from doing because of the experience gained from the financial and economic crisis! Ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ, I cannot spare you, however, to recall this brochure, which has been sent to thousands of young Austrians over the last few days. [[Keeping up a brochure entitled “The Blue Planet”]] Not only their content is a shame to the Republic of Austria. It tries to politically influence the youth with drugs, with cocaine, with cigarettes, with beer, with naked poses. Strache is presented in clearly right positions – and the whole is financed by taxpayers! They are not ashamed to make party propaganda in the European election campaign with a brochure of the Freedom Education Organization, funded by tax funds. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the position as we can lead Austria to a good path to Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38665	Mr Heinzl has now come to speak. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38686	Madam President. Mr. Foreign Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment critically on the subject of European Union in the context of the budget debate on the external chapter. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very often referred to as "Paradise Europe", but I would rather use the words "basic paradise". We all know that in Europe everything is not going well, and it is, I believe, the time for the neoliberal path of the European Union to end. The fight against the economic crisis and unemployment is a priority for us in Austria, and that is important and true. But what is our priority in Austria must also apply to the EU. The EU must provide security and protection against the negative consequences of globalisation. The safeguarding of jobs, the fight against youth unemployment, the safeguarding of pensions: all this means social Europe for us Social Democrats. We want a social contract, which contains mandatory objectives for job creation or for the protection of pensions, and we want this social contract to be implemented soon. We from SPÖ are also committed to fully exploiting the transitional periods for the Austrian labour market. A corresponding decision has already been taken by the Federal Government to implement this measure, and that is also good. ==References====External links== A decision was also taken on 1 March 2009. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! International financial markets need new rules and also stronger controls. I believe that the proposals made by the EU Commission, which has so far been involved in this issue, is simply far too short. We need stricter regulations to protect against speculators. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is promoting liberalisation and privatisation, and this is a step forward. Public services, which has already been properly noted throughout the day in the context of this budget debate, such as transport or water, are to be regulated by the countries and municipalities. – This also means social Europe. It is important and true that Austria is committed to ensuring that security is given more attention from the EU than before: The issue of security must be at least as important in Brussels as the liberalisation of markets. And it is also true that Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann and Foreign Minister Dr. Spindelegger want to address this issue together this week to the EU Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, in short: We from SPÖ want a strong, secure and social Europe. The EU must be closer to society and citizens, and people and not markets must again be at the heart of the policy of the European Union. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38750	In part European and international matters, I am no longer able to speak. This subject area is thus terminated. [[16:21:10]] National Defence and Sport UG 14: Military Affairs and Sport
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38781	We now come to the negotiation of the part of the state defense and sport. This includes subdivision 14, military affairs and sport. Mr Fichtenbauer was the first to speak. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e38808	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Not that it would not be a joy and wrath to talk to one at the same time about the military that I treasure and love and to which a large part of my life is dedicated, if the army did not face such a nuisance, which naturally expresses itself in the finances of the state. I recall that for 2009, including the sport sector, a budget approach of €2 210.6 million and a budget of €2 233.6 million for 2010. Now I recall the widely known and often debated fact that, as a result of the Federal Government Reform Commission, among all parties in the state, there is no dispute that the German army would require the minimum amount of a share of a gross domestic product of 1 percent for implementation and, in particular, for the performance of tasks by providing the necessary material and investment. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I also propose a third amendment, but I do not have to read it because it is long enough and has been distributed, with the government template: Bundesgesetz, with which the Federal Financial Framework Act 2009 to 2012 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2010 to 2013 will be adopted (110 d.B.), as amended by the report of the Budget Committee (199, e.g.) to be amended in accordance with the written template. The amount of change due to the amendments shall also be taken into account in the respective amounts. The corresponding amounts of expenditure in the Federal Financial Framework Act 2009 to 2012 and in the Federal Financial Framework Act 2010 to 2013 should therefore be adjusted accordingly. Let me point out the following: These requested increases are aimed at achieving a military budget of 1 per cent of the gross domestic product. Based on a small calculation by Dr. Schüssel of the morning, I would point out that the required increase of €626 million – it goes beyond that – would not account for more than €1.46 per person per week. No longer: € 1.46 per person per week for the completion of a proper military budget to bring about the implementation of the results and wishes of the Federal Force Reform Commission, which all parties concur! We will also have a name-named vote on these proposals, so that once and for all it can be read in the protocols, who implements lip confessions in Parliament's real wishes and actions – and who lets them apply to lip confessions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next point. Today, we hear from the mouth of the Federal Chancellor that the date envisaged at the end of 2009 for the end of the German army's assistance mission on the border should not continue to exist. Despite the fact, which has often been criticised, that the amount of burden that the army is not responsible for is not replaced, because this would be an internal political, security policy task, I quote the criticism often expressed by this speaker, which must be made by constitutional level. I quote today’s APA issue of the content that “sharpen criticism (...) of constitutional experts becomes loud to the further extension of the German army’s assistance at the border, remembered by the government”. “This does not correspond to the constitutional framework, said the Constitutional expert Bernd-Christian Funk (...).” Professor Mayer believes that the assistance “belongs to be unconstitutional”. ‘Laut Funk clearly states the constitutional law that (...) an extraordinary and temporary danger must be present for an assistance deployment, which threatens the internal order’. There is nothing to add to this – except for the fact that the Schengen border with the Eastern countries was not allowed to be removed. which customs authorities could have been able to use in a proper manner and in a favourable manner for border guards of this kind. The German army is de facto abused, and for this reason we are opposed to this abuse, although, of course, we recognize and acknowledge the security needs of the population in the East, especially in the current upswing of the crime intensity. This has nothing to do with the fact that the government does not produce the constitutional order on this point: Police instead of federal army against criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e39085	The applications which have just been submitted – twice oral and once explained in the key points – are properly filed and are under negotiation; the third request is submitted in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG also distributed. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e39416	Mr Prehauser. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e39437	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! 1 per cent of GDP for national defence is a long-standing wish. I am about to say that I too would like to do so if it were only the defence of the country itself. But unfortunately we have to manage a state where it takes more than a state defense to entertain: We have great tasks, and the current economic situation around the world, which can be said without exaggeration, of course, leaves little room for action in the financial framework, if not at all. And that is why you should analyse the subject and give the money where you have to have it today in order to keep Austria alive. We believe that Minister of Defense Darabos has succeeded in a large throw with the negotiated budget – of course, from the points of view I have put on, and always from the point of view that more and more would be better. But of course this applies to every ministry, to every person responsible! I think that what has so far been moved with the funds in the federal army can be seen: In the case of operations, even if they are not so gladly seen, at the Austrian eastern border, in international operations, in the disasters where the German army is not to be thought away, the German army has always proved that the trust in it is justified, and also the money used for the federal army has been well established. Of course, you can say you need more modern equipment, you need more. – We have excellent, modern equipment in the air, and there was also the discussion not without when it came to getting aircraft, and when the debate turned on what aircraft it was supposed to be, and when it became clear which aircraft was to be purchased, the talks were held as to whether the operating costs indicated by the producer voted or not: There could not be any comparison figures at that time, because the plane had not yet been in the air. Compared to other planes that were in the air, one has tried to get the thing in order that the Eurofighter would not have to be so high above the others from the day-to-day needs. We know today that what was discussed in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, namely that the operating costs of the Eurofighter have occurred at least twice, if not triple, but we also know that one has not occurred: It has always been tried to wipe out these additional costs and to say that this is not a problem, that the Austrian federal army would not have to take care of and one would ensure that funds would be provided in the financial field. Only this has not happened, not once, and so today the Minister of Defense cannot blame the money he has “fighted” – under quotation marks – because he also has to pay the tranches of the aircraft and the operating costs. This is the reality that we have to bend, and he has no more possibilities. He must, of course, first and foremost secure the borders with the money he has available, and he must in the event of disasters, when it comes to helping people send soldiers to the disaster spots. We have also heard today that the “Schengen external border” – now under quotation marks – is still being monitored by soldiers, not on the front line, because the Schengen external border is moving a little further east, but in order to meet the security needs of the population. The concern of the population that many illegals are coming to Austria is also always confirmed by the fact that people are being attacked, about 60 illegals per month, and of course this is justified. I am glad that it is possible to give the population back the signal that we are there for them and that we are breaking our heads over their problems. Of course, we also have the task of equipping the federal army with resources to distribute the money in such a way that the infrastructure is improved to improve accommodation, that equipment is renewed – that is not a question – so that the international tasks can be handled by us. On the occasion I would also like to say a warm thank you to our soldiers. Where they appear, they need the other respect, be that in Chad or be it in the Balkans. I was just at a NATO meeting – Mr. Fichtenbauer was at the same time –: Austria also enjoys high reputation there, although we are not members, in view of the fact that it is often better to send Neutrals to negotiate or to engage in discussions because prejudices are smaller. Austria has a good standing in the public, the Austrian federal army as well. – Live the Austrian federal army!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e39495	Mr Deputies has now come to speak at 5 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e39517	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister of State Defense – this time for the defence of the state! She's one of your stepchildren, the state defense. A few comments on the budget: The great surprise you announced was in no way to be found at the budget, it has been missed. Your Chief of Staff has said literally to the double budget: "That's a hammer." The ÖVP trade unions – the colleague will say it afterwards – have also recognized half-heartedly in a press release: The budget is too small, but they can't say anymore. The negotiated compromise is in no way sufficient, and special funding is necessary. On behalf of SPÖ and the Greens, Federal Minister Darabos has led the German army into the most difficult crisis in recent years. After only three years of office, Mr. Federal Minister, the army's willingness to work is most at risk. With this, I must say, as the Federal Minister for Defence, you have for the time being failed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The federal army, ladies and gentlemen, can only fulfill its orders more limited, and these disastrous developments have repeatedly warned the officer society and also many officers – especially red officers, such as those with a red party book – for months. However, these warnings have always been rejected as not corresponding to the facts and turned it under the carpet to your office. Their relationship with the officer company has already been disturbed, but I say that the Austrian officers do excellent work and are internationally recognized! And therefore, it is only logical that those officers who have learned the job and who know the dramatic situation in the federal army can ultimately make a real assessment of the situation in the federal army. The last way out was the letter they wrote with, among other things, several general staff officers and that arrived at you. We discussed this at the National Security Council: I think that before the National Security Council there has been a small “headwashing” and I think the officers had to salute, have been poisoned and the SPÖ’s requirement has been placed under the primacy of politics. . But I say, ladies and gentlemen, that the primacy of politics does not apply when it comes to the willingness of the federal army! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I note from the BZÖ today with my parliamentary group that we are going to prevent the resolution of the army by all means! They are in the federal government the most subversive part it has ever been! We in the Federal Army and in the High House must not be indifferent, therefore our demands to you, Mr Federal Minister, are clearly defined here in short terms, as follows. Reform, Mr. Federal Minister, the failed federal army reform 2010 and suspend it! We still have enough opportunities for staff to achieve a great deal of financial resources. Perform a personal reform, make a personal package! You acknowledge Chad's commitment, Minister of State, and we reject the extension of Chad's use. They thus offer Alibi protection for Africa, we want more protection and help in Austria, at home. Stop Chad! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Federal Minister, as a citizen, you stand for embarrassing assistance within the EU and, of course, are annoying Hungary in the long term, since Hungary is the Schengen border. But now there is really a real Burgenländerwitz, who has come through the media today. There is a Burgenländerwitz on it: Federal Chancellor Faymann wants to extend this assistance effort smoothly. It can't be! The use serves the fight against crime. – This is a dubious argument and ridiculous. There is currently no evidence of less crime in the German army's areas of action. [[Abg. Prehauser: Where did you get this?]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is an abundantly perplexed speech!]] - It's not crazy, it's all right. If Mr Faul were here, Mr Prehuber, you would certainly judge them differently. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Pre hauser!]] Last sentence: Mr. Federal Minister, the assistance in the Burgenland is pointless and is immediately terminated. All of this would be savings that do not take place at the expense of security, and the freer resources would be more useful to improve the training of our soldiers. There must be no disaster in the German army in terms of the use of disasters in the country. Make the necessary conditions, Mr Federal Minister, that disasters such as those in the flood of the century 2002 can also be addressed.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e39609	Next, Mr. Ing. I'm talking about the chapel. I would like to have a speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e39630	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr. Liste, I would like to say the following: If, in times like this, in times of the financial crisis, the Austrian federal army would be given the 1% of GDP necessary for the reform and also otherwise, you would be the one who criticized that we were in other areas being unsocial or did not distribute the funds properly. I assume that any action that is now being set would be wrong from the point of view of the opposition. However, I believe that this budget is correct in accordance with the conditions laid down internationally. Of course, the financial resources are not too much, there is no question at all – there is nothing to be beautiful either. It is also a fact that with this budget, the German army will only be able to carry out the tasks to a limited extent, but there is also a time after the crisis. And there has been a lot of talk about what we do after the time of the crisis. We should then, I think, not only reduce the debt, which is now justified to satisfy needs, but also remove your and our speeches and, together, demand more for the Austrian federal army, namely, really 1 per cent of GDP, so that the reform that has been started can be completed so that the tasks can be fulfilled. And then there will have to be a political commitment here in the house, whether the Austrian federal army has to carry out security tasks parallel and equal to our police, because that will be the key question in the future. Thanks to God, the framework conditions in Europe have changed considerably. There is no longer this threat scenario from the outside and this block-thinking, and yet the Austrian federal army has to carry out security tasks to an extent that we cannot imagine. Today 20 years ago, no one could have imagined that there would then be epoch changes in Europe in autumn. And today we do not know how this will shape our Europe, our world in 20 years of security policy. Therefore: Key tasks and core competences of the Austrian federal army must also be maintained in these changed framework conditions, and this is quite possible with this budget. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am convinced that this is not only a question of whether there is sufficient financial resources, but also of the fact that we have the confidence in the department management that the funds available to a limited extent are being used optimally. It is also about social security for army members, who do not always have budgetary resources, but who are often non-profitable. I am referring to this – we should not forget that; this was done for the Austrian Federal Army staff – that the extension of the § 113h salary law last week brought about a corresponding social security for those affected by the reform: almost non-profitable, but very, very important to the family. It will also be a matter of attracting the Federal Army, the occupation of the soldier and the soldier, by opening the training of the sub-official also for the civil sector, which acknowledges the training of the sub-official. This allows us to win soldiers, even in times like this. But it will also be a matter of finding a modern service right, a salary right, but also an early retirement model in this area, because on the one hand, we need young ladies and gentlemen to be able to fulfil the tasks that the Austrian Federal Army has, on the other hand, we have very many older colleagues, ladies, who can no longer be targeted, because their jobs have experienced corresponding changes. And these are also debates that we have to hold here, which we have to deal with. It will, of course, and I am quite right in giving some previous speakers, also necessary to hold and look at where we stand in the reform of the Austrian federal army. And to that end – and I thank the Federal Minister for that – there will be an evaluation commission this year so that we can see, as I have said, where the German army stands, where the journey is going, and what can be done with this budget, which will certainly not change significantly in the next few years. Yes, it also requires a confession to the Austrian military system, to military service. I do not understand, Mr. Liste, when you speak of your being against the abolition of the Austrian federal army. – We are all opposed to the abolition of the Austrian federal army, which has never been thought of or addressed anywhere, even mentioned by the department management only somewhere. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I don't think so!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. List.]] I think that the Austrian federal army has an essential task to fulfil in the country, which is a priority: the protection of disasters, which we must guarantee. This requires appropriate means to do so, it takes courage to rework, but also by demanding a little more budget to make large investments. As an example, I would like to cite the upgrading of our helicopter so that people can continue to be saved in emergency situations – we cannot choose whether there is a bad weather or a beautiful weather in an emergency situation – as the helicopter is then able to fly blindly. But there are also foreign tasks – and I am not the one who intercedes for Austrian soldiers to operate crisis intervention or to act peaceably throughout the world. I think it is right and important to take this foreign commitment into consideration, because then we still have a number of soldiers abroad, which we are at the forefront of. I am convinced that it will also be our task to make a common effort to ensure that the soldiers working abroad for the international reputation of Austria have the best equipment – I am really talking about the best device. There is still a large-scale acquisition and it is necessary, namely the ATF. This armored vehicle helps the Austrian soldiers abroad, on the one hand to ensure peacekeeping measures and on the other hand foreign protection, but above all to ensure self-protection, and that is necessary. We all want our soldiers who are abroad to return to Austria safely and healthyly after the completion of the dangerous job. In this sense, the budgets in place are, I think, budgets with an eyeset. It's really not too much, we all know, but in times of a global financial and economic crisis, it's what was feasible. And I think, with a corresponding set of priorities, with a little bit of convergence also in the department and with the search for savings opportunities, of savings potential – that makes our minister just that – it is possible to fulfil the tasks according to the priorities I have referred to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e39691	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. I would like to have a speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e39712	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This morning it has come to a GAU, to the greatest acceptable displeasure, in this case by the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria. Faymann, obviously without knowing anything about the subject and without being informed in advance, has proclaimed that the assistance of the Austrian federal army will continue to be extended to the former Schengen borders. That is why I put forward a motion for a resolution which I would like to justify in a row – the motion for a resolution is short, the explanatory statement is somewhat longer –: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a simple and clear request: We propose that the money that the Federal Chancellor intends to spend on combating crime be spent on effective crime. So, and now we're talking about numbers for the first time: If you study the working documents and the explanations on the defence budget in detail, you will find that the claims of the Minister of Defence have absolutely nothing to do with reality about the costs of using assistance – you can understand the point by point. Here are the figures: For the year 2008, the Federal Army's assistance has cost the Republic of Austria €44.8 million in taxpayers' money; for this year at least €22.1 million is budgeted. For what?, I ask. – In 2008 for the use of 1,950 present servants to fight crime, as the Federal Chancellor says. – Let’s look at the success of this crime fight; by the way, the Freedom Party has helped us to ask the Minister of Interior Fekter in this regard. It is only when the answer to the question has been given that there have been figures which the Freedom Party has obviously put into moderate enthusiasm, because, for example, the question of how many tugs could be stopped, the Minister for the Interior has answered: Zero. How many illegal immigrants could be excluded?, was the next question. – The answer of the Minister of the Interior: Zero. Further question: How many crimes have been brought to light? – 40 delicates. And that of 1,950 soldiers! Next question: How many events have been reported? – Answer: 693. In a whole year, a single occurrence was reported by three soldiers of assistance, no longer – and 44.8 million € for that, 1 950 soldiers on the border?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] The answer to this question also states that in 2008 there were 14 arrests due to the instructions of soldiers in charge of assistance. – In other words, the cost of a single “Darabos-Fekter” in the assistance deployment is €3.2 million! This is a world record of arrest costs; there is no such thing all over the world! Teurer can't be arrested! €44.8 million for assistance 2008 and €45 million Total budget for the Federal Criminal Office – and there the security politicians in the Federal Government do not go here and say: For God's sake, there is a Federal Criminal Office that processes tens of thousands of ads, carries out thousands of arrests, fights crime as well as possible under difficult political conditions, and then the money is wasted at the same level of the Federal Criminal Office budget in the assistance of the Federal Force?- Oh, my God! There are people with storm guns standing on parking spaces next to shopping malls, must not check identification, must not be arrested, but only be allowed to look into the shopping cart, which the shopping tourist moves to his car with a foreign mark, and then the present servants can take a Call and report police posts: The observer has suspiciously loaded a lot of goods from the shopping car into the car! – After these are messages! But if you don't believe me, then listen to what Federal Minister Fekter says – quote from the question answer 494/AB –: ‘The vast majority of reports refer to preventive measures such as alarm solutions, identified non-closed containers or doors and windows of buildings, motor vehicles, cases of the first general obligation to provide assistance, disputes, waste disposal, finds, traffic accidents with personal injury and the suicide of a recruit...’ Waste disposal in assistance, finds, accidentally left open windows and doors: After that, of course, you need the assistance of the federal army – and this is €44.8 million! That's why we say: Stop that transfiguration! Please finance – and this costs only a fraction – an introduction to the security policy for the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Also note the following: On our behalf, University Professor Bernd-Christian Funk together with Mag. Joachim Stern created this report. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] This is an opinion on behalf of the Green Club. It clearly states that the German army's assistance has long been unconstitutional. – And the constitutional illegality becomes clearer every month; since Schengen II, there has not even been a constitutional discussion on this again! Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, you not only “help” to cover up taxpayers in an irresponsible and inconceivable way, but also provide a constant break of the Austrian federal constitution – and that knowingly, because you know this opinion! Federal Minister Darabos, you are buying a state of unconstitutional status in order to continue a security populist dispassion in the interest of two heads of state – Mr Niessl and Mr Pröll. With this displeasure must be over! That is why we want the immediate end of the assistance mission – and at the end of the budget debate, next Friday, the joint decision that those funds that will then be saved from the assistance will be made available to criminal police work, which has been severely affected by resources, personnel and motivation under black Interior Ministers. This money belongs to Austrian security and does not invest in security fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e39865	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40059	Next speaker: Federal Minister Mag. Darabos. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40080	Madam President. High house! On current occasion, it is the assistance of the Austrian Federal Army. Mr Pilz, you know as well as I do that the opinion you have commissioned has been crushed by the experts of the Ministry – and of course this assistance is not an unconstitutional process. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Pilz]] If your expert, Constitutional Lawyer Mayer, believes that this commitment has been unconstitutional for 17 years, as he said in an APA interview today, I wonder why the Constitutional Court has not yet filed any such action. This was not the case, of course, because this assistance is of course not unconstitutional! Since 1990, there has been – in the interest of the Austrian population – an assistant service of the Austrian Federal Army on the eastern border, in Lower Austria and in Burgenland, which provides for the security of the Austrian population. I would also like to tell you, Mr Commissioner of the BZÖ, what a real hammer is, as you have said. A real hammer is: Spain minus 5 percent, Ireland minus 8 percent, Italy minus 8 percent – this interest [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We don't care!]] You may not, however, I tell you – Poland minus 10 percent, Hungary minus 10 percent, Estonia minus 14 percent, Latvia minus 25 percent. [[Abg. List: They have quite different requirements!]] You can imagine what I mean: This is the budget development from 2008 to 2009 in comparable European countries – in large countries such as Italy and Spain, in small countries such as Hungary, in new countries such as Estonia and Latvia. By the way, there is a 3.5 percent increase in Austria – I am still going to come back to it. You should also write this a little in the main book, because it is indeed so – as my previous speakers have admitted at least some objectively – that we are now living at a time when an economic and financial crisis has brought unanticipated proportions, and I would like to stress that this financial crisis has not gone from Austria, but from the USA, and has been transferred to Europe and thus, with a certain tendency, also to Austria. [[Abg. Riepl: He doesn't have a regular book at all!]] In the run-up to this budget debate, you have said that the budget must be levelled down again and again, because the figures mentioned by the Minister for Finance and Finance would no longer be voting. That is why I do not fully understand your priorities now, because on the one hand you want to have more money for it, although I have negotiated 3.5 percent more for the German army, on the other hand you generally say that the budget has to be levelled down. But that's your statement, you have to live with it. I would just like to have mentioned this very briefly. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Even your own officers say that the federal army is not operational!]] It is true that, of course, the economic crisis is also going through to the Austrian federal army, and we have to ask ourselves how high the threshold of viability for a defence budget is in a neutral country. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I believe that we are well advised to keep a cool head, together to create the scope for economic action, for labour policy measures, and also to provide a budget for the Austrian federal army that meets the challenges of national defence, civil protection and foreign use. And I mean, this budget I've been able to negotiate will meet these three premises. It is true, of course, that every head of the department has set itself a programme to negotiate even more money, but each of the head of the department was also aware that compromises will be necessary. I would like to stress once again: With this budget, we can meet the task of national defence and civil protection – and this is what the Austrian population is building on. It is a budget that has been negotiated with the General Staff and with the Minister for Finance, and this budget is, in my view, reasonable in the current situation. I would also like to give you the figures now, because it is obviously unpleasant for you to mention the real figures in the public. In 2009 we have an increase of 3.5 percent in the budget compared to 2008. In other words, the budget – only for the Federal Army – rose from € 2.037 billion in 2009 to €2,109 billion, and in 2010 the Federal Army budget will account for €2.122 billion. In addition – this must not be kept silent in the House, even if one does not like to hear it from the opposition – we have negotiated that the reserves of € 48 million can be consumed to the full. Of course, property proceeds also flow to a hundred percent of the department of defence and therefore also need to be added accordingly to your invoices. That is, plus sports evenings – this is a new area that has been added to our department – the budget is €2.2 billion for 2009 and € 2.23 million for 2010. We can carry out the tasks with this budget compromise, but we can also start new plans. I agree with Mr Kapeller: Innovation is in demand. Together with the highest military leadership, I will ensure that the existing resources can also be used with thought and care. I have a clear goal – I have made this clear to the public several times in recent weeks – namely to strengthen the force. We are convinced that we should not lose sight of our soldiers, our cadres, our cadres, our recruits, our militia – quite the contrary, we want to put concrete projects for everyday life into reality. The focus of the investment in this budget is therefore also the construction programmes for the barracks, for the workplaces and accommodations for 24 000 German army workers and about 30 000 recruits per year. We should not forget that in the two years of my term of office, where the global downturn was so to speak, we have invested €520 million, and we are now able to carry out infrastructure improvements, acquire disaster pioneer equipment, buy hardened vehicles to protect the force, and invest in ABC protection equipment. At the same time, we will also exploit savings potential in the administration in the sense of taxpayers. Call me a department in which it has succeeded to push from 1,200 to under 900, without major protests and also in cooperation with staff representatives, the staff position in the innermost area, in the central office. We have decided on measures such as § 113h, which has enabled a social suspension. That is why it was also possible to implement these necessary administrative savings measures to implement this administrative reform in my place of business, and I am really proud of that, I say quite openly to you. I am equally proud of the fact that over the last two years, we have managed to bring more than 400 people out of the administration to the force. This too is a goal that must be pursued, because the German army is not a self-government store, but it is an instrument necessary for our national defence, which hopefully never needs to be used in a crisis case, but if, of course, the money and also the personnel use must be in the force. We did that too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to address the issue of foreign operations. We should all be proud here in this House that Austria is one of those nations that can be found among the top 5 worldwide in relation to the ratio to the population and the number of army staff – the Austrian federal army. With 1 400 soldiers in foreign operations, we have created a trademark, we are internationally recognizable, we are not only taken seriously by the UN, we are also considered as a show country, and we stand for it. We stand by our efforts in Kosovo, we stand by our efforts in Bosnia. Parts of the house are also on the bets in Chad. And I hope that the whole of the House stands for the bets on the Golan. That is, with 1,400 soldiers, Austria is a nation that has a high level of international reputation for foreign operations. If you take that so to speak, it's good. I believe that we should also say this offensively to the people, and we should also agree in this House at least on the point that we can be proud of these foreign missions of Austrian soldiers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Although the debate on sport has not yet been opened, I can say a few words ahead. It is the largest sports budget ever adopted in the Second Republic. Together with the funds to be managed by the Federal Chancellery for the Januarys, a total of € 113 million is available for sport. This is the largest sum that could ever be spent on Austrian sport at the federal level. We are talking here, above all, about the division of the special federal sport promotion. Despite times of crisis, it has developed very, very positively. In 1999, there was – a number I would like to mention here – a figure of €31 million from the sales development of the Austrian lotteries; in the meantime there are €71.3 million that directly benefit organized sports. This special federal sport funding serves the basic financing of the Austrian sports associations. In addition, the General Sport Promotion of the Federal Government, which is used for infrastructure measures and major events. It should not be forgotten that Austria has also developed a role model in this area, which benefits, for example, Austrian tourism in the form of rerouting profitability. I remember that in 2010, we held the European Handball Championship in Austria, 2011 the European Volleyball Championship, and 2011 the World Cup for Faustball. In 2012 we will be able to host the Olympic Youth Winter Games in Innsbruck, and as a highlight 2013, the Alpine Schi World Championship in Schladming has already been prepared for this budget. At the beginning of May you, ladies and gentlemen of the High House, also created a modern instrument with the new § 11a of the Federal Sports Promotion Act in order to be able to respond quickly and purposefully to the current needs of sports. I thank you very much for that. It is a transitional right that we want to transform together into a fixed new, modern sports promotion system that ensures flexible and goal-proof promotion as a whole, as well as transparency and professional controlling. I believe that the budget for the Austrian federal army and for Austrian sport is generally tangible. Therefore, despite the financial and economic crisis, we can look at 2009 and 2010 with optimism.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40205	Mr Pilz has made a point of correcting the matter. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40229	Mr Darabos, Federal Minister, said that the experts of the Ministry of Defence had “succeeded” the opinion of the constitutional lawyer Professor Heinz Mayer. I'll put it right: The so-called experts of the Ministry of Defence were unable to “split” Professor Mayer’s opinion because there is no opinion from Professor Mayer. The opinion I have submitted comes from Univ.-Prof. Bernd-Christian Funk. It is highly recommended that neither the constitutional judges nor the laws themselves be confused. This would correspond to the care that the House rightly expects from a member of the Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40267	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40288	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! High house! Values listeners! At this point, I would like to express my views on some of the budget-related issues in the area of national defence, which I think is very important. First of all, Mr Federal Minister, I should like to congratulate you very much on the rise in the defence budget by 3.5 percent. I am looking at the opposition’s statements according to the popular motto “Many enemy, much honor” – the more blamed about it, the greater your success. That is why I would like to congratulate you on this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The agreement with the Ministry of Finance that in 2009 additional deposits of € 48 million can be consumed without restrictions is, I believe, a beautiful success and very positive. This will also enable the German army to carry out all its tasks, in the first place the implementation of the federal reform, to make all important investments to protect the soldiers and to address the urgently needed rehabilitation of barracks. My personal concern is the concerns of the basic military servants and of the cadre staff. That is why I expressly support the fact that Minister Darabos wants to set priorities in these areas. In this context, it was particularly important that the Minister's instructions be directed to allow the basic defence servants to make their presence as close as possible to their home places. We all know that serious and tragic accidents occur very often on the arrivals of the groundguards to their barracks sites and also on home trips. That is why this admonition is a very, very good thing. It is also necessary to support an improvement in the equipment of the troupe with appliances for the protection of disasters and ABC. Another important concern of the Minister, whom I am also willing to support, concerns the maintenance of barracks. It is very gratifying that the barracks renovations are the main investment projects of the German army and that Minister Darabos will follow the order provided for in the military reform to first create new model barracks and then close old ones. I would also like to stress that, with these infrastructure investments, the Austrian Federal Government is contributing a significant part to the domestic economic recovery, since many SMEs will also have the opportunity for orders on the ground and can thus also obtain jobs or create new ones. The further addition of the budget by means of the sale of barracks by the SIVBEG is also a positive fact, and I think that these forecast sales proceeds of €400 to €500 million can also be made from purchases that now had to be resettled in the current situation. All in all, Mr Federal Minister, congratulations on this budget, and I wish you every good for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40345	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40367	Mr President. Minister! High house! Sports connects, sports moves, especially when once again one of our top athletes sends himself, for us, for Austria, and of course also to reach a top place for themselves. But at the latest since yesterday we know black on white and in the form of a clear statement that this is very often a tactic. Here in the House, therefore, there are some critical questions to ask. Bernhard Kohl made a very open and honest statement yesterday. It was very courageous. He told me to repeat this again very briefly, he should have started his doping career at the age of 19. Kohl said he was never really afraid of being caught. He did not take a great deal of risk. No one can say – and that's what I'm criticizing – that any officials, supervisors or controllers should not have known anything. The system that opens up there is really a reason to question. At this point, it must be said quite clearly that doping is simple and simple fraud. It is fraud in itself, and it is by helping someone to get baptized, even as aid for sports fraud. It's a drug crime, it's a crime against your own body, it's a pervert of sport. - That's just ahead. Apparently, however, some athletes see this differently. In this interview I looked at, Bernhard Kohl said that while Doping was fraud to the public, it was not to the competitors. This means that, in order to achieve equal opportunities, top athletes must be baptized. He also said that it seemed impossible for him to deliver an absolute top performance clean. As a third quote: A sportsman has to live a double life, you may even have to be a cheater sometimes. All these things have always been in the room up to that point, but no one has said them. Especially with the double life is a remarkable confession. If I now see that the sportsman has also meant that he has been controlled 200 times in his career and of these 200 times he has been caught, that is why he is now in this whole miser, then I have to say that is equivalent to a 0.5 percent education rate. If we consider how much money is put nationally and internationally into doping controls, then I have to say that something cannot be true. If a company has a success the rate of 0.5 percent would have been discontinued and would not have been superior. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we learned about the origins of international sports. It has been described as being transported from Austria, by which Humanomed, as the Institute has called, to France's blood canned, how one has quickly dipped under the ceiling within 20 minutes, in order not to be caught, - exactly timed, all this has been calculated highly scientificly. They knew when the doping inspectors were coming, and they didn't get caught. This also applies to other things, such as growth hormones, testosterone, which is all exactly exploited. There is excellent professional help in the background. As said, from 200 times caught, once flown up – 0.5 percent – and that is not an individual case. If we are now in this report, I would draw attention to the fact that we have recently also adopted a White Paper on Sport. In this White Paper, Sport, there are some measures to be taken by the Lord. But I am saying that if we do not want to be ridiculous in the fight against doping, both nationally and internationally, much, much more must be done about it. That means much more money has to be taken into control. There used to be a variety of anti-doping institutes in our country, which obviously failed – I say so brutally. We now have the NADA, which has only been available for two or three years. This NADA, however, unfortunately has only a budget of 1.3 million €. These €1.3 million are relatively small in view of a sport budget of € 100 million for this year and € 111 million for next year. That is, if we really take this thing seriously with the doping, if we really want a clean sport for our youth, then we have to bring more money to all these institutions that are facing the fight against doping. That is why we allow ourselves to put forward a motion for a resolution because, as has been said, we believe that the budget for the fight against doping in the 2009 and 2010 budgets is insufficient. [[Quoted print version removed]] This is, of course, when you see that in absolute numbers, not even the yellow of the egg, but it is at least a beginning. I say that just in view of yesterday's events. I hope that this proposal will be accepted. One last question I would have to ask, Mr Minister, if you would still like to answer that. As part of the special sports promotion – you just mentioned this earlier – currently € 72 million is coming in. We have asked a question - I have already asked the last committee - what happens to this money. We always get so general answers such as the special sport promotion, on the one hand, broadband and on the other, top-level sport and promotion of young people. If we now get €72 million through this special promotion, it would be recommended to use part of this money exactly for the fight against doping. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40461	The motion for a resolution is properly put in place, sufficiently supported and dealt with. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40522	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40544	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Karlsböck, the fight against doping is important, but not only since yesterday. We know that doping is the biggest problem of sports, the biggest scourge of sports, and that we have something to do in the field massively. But we have done a lot too, because Austria has certainly gone the right way in the past with its anti-doping law and we have put in place very clear measures that are still having their correctness in the fight against doping. It is also apparent that these measures are useful and efficient. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is certainly a lot to be done, and that is why we have also set up the Anti-Doping Subcommittee, in which we will be developing appropriate measures in the next few weeks. But you have to consider the following: Of course, it is also a bit worrying if you need to invest so much money in sports controls. It would be much more useful to invest them in prevention first, so that it doesn't get that far. We also heard at the first committee meeting at the first hearing that it is almost impossible to achieve top performance without doping. This is not just a national problem, but an international problem, and I therefore believe that we can only solve this at international level. Of course, I would also like to devote myself to the budget, because the sports chapter is on and on itself a gratifying one, as far as the budget is concerned, we have achieved a strong increase since 1999. In the past, we have always talked about the sports billion, still in Schilling at that time. We have now exceeded them at the point of entry and it is important to use them efficiently. Sport is a valuable and important social area. In times like these when the children are moving less and less, he is especially important. We have the problem then also in the defence of the state, if the young people come to the stand, can hardly move, are too thick or unable to move. We should deal with the problems together, and indeed some synergies. A very important point: We need to make our sports and movement offers sustainable. On the one hand, it is a great concern for me to pay more attention to the school sport or movement in school with the daily movement unit, and on the other hand, that the club sport is also promoted accordingly. We already have to separate very strongly between club sports, broadband sports or health sports and top sports, because it is important that we do not insure the children and the parents through the permanent criminalization and the permanent doping discussion. In principle, we must do honest and good work in our associations, and we must thank the volunteer officials, trainers and those who are involved in it very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They make their performance available free of charge, and that is the strength of Austrian sport. There are 13 000 associations that are distributed throughout Austria, in all the federal states, across all the umbrellas and trade associations. That's exactly what it's important to use effectively. If we have available for the first time € 113 million in special and general federal sports promotion this year, we can certainly also take effective steps. It is also particularly gratifying that the Federal Budget Act regulates the set-aside for the expenses compensation for the athletes and for the trainers. The fact that there is a free amount of 540 € per month gives the athletes safety and is the right way, and we should also maintain this path. The top-ranking promotion is an essential part of federal sport promotion and we experienced in 2008 that in Top Sport Austria about 3.5 million € have been used. Now there was a change of name on team red-white red. I hope that the support will also work in this direction, because there are big projects in 2010 like the Vancouver Olympic Games, and there we would like to celebrate great successes with Austria again. I think that we need to ensure, in particular, the security of planning for professional associations, and I am of course also looking for the appropriate gentlemen and ladies in the Sports Ministry to make the payment of the funds clear and that the disbursement is done in good time. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the roof and trade associations, especially in the roof associations – and they are somehow a unit – excellent work is done – from child movement projects to health projects. In the field of sports union, for example, I am thinking of the diabetes project, which is being carried out together with the Healthy Austria Fund, in which many who suffer from diabetes are helped with sports to bear their disease better. These are the right measures if you can make health with sports. I think we're on the right track. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Together we now also start the project “Moving children healthyly” across the roof associations. We'll start in September. It is important that the funds are also released for this purpose. All the means for sports, little in bureaucracy – this is the right way. In April, we agreed to the transitional right for federal sport promotion. There are funds of €8 million. It is also a very crucial step that we bring the funds directly to the base for our associations, and it is the first step towards a new federal sport promotion. I think we all agree that a new federal sport promotion is necessary. Above all, there should be a merger of the entire funding, there should be a re-regulation of the process steps, there should be a proper evaluation and a proper controlling – all this is important. In this respect, we should use the years 2009 and 2010 to take the first steps and also review them. Finally, I will come back to the topic of doping very briefly. € 1.3 million for NADA is currently available in the budget. One could certainly implement one or another for NADA with § 11a, for it is really one of the basic tasks of NADA to inform. In the sports schools, in the sports colleges, everywhere where trainers and teachers are trained, where athletes come into contact with the performance idea, there it is important to clarify. For example, we in the Sports Union have started a very efficient project, we have launched our own anti-doping project. At an anti-doping hotline, the sports clubs can find out, we're making talks across the district borders, we're holding a big congress, in short, we're also informing about doping, and that's exactly what NADA should do. If you look at Bernhard Kohl now, he is unfortunately in every respect at the end. To prosecute him now for dopings would be the wrong way. The debate is also going in the wrong direction. One should simply apply the measures now provided for in the Anti-Doping Act. Together with all the other measures that the legal framework still provides, this is sufficient to take appropriate steps. In this sense, I think that we have set up a good budget for sport for 2009 and 2010 and that – and I am sure – we can celebrate some honest success for Austrian sport again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40659	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40680	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Two more comments on the national defence chapter before I say something on the subject of sport. Mr Darabos, it is already beautiful and good if you brand the opposition and say that we are so angry because we claim that the federal army is not operational and the budget is too low. – I can only expressly remind you, Minister, that it was the leadership of the Austrian federal army, your officers and generals, who have let go of a letter of help, because the budget is too low and because some of your management team believe that the German army is not operational with this budget. So don't put the opposition in the draw! We only articulate what the Federal Government has already told you in writing, Minister of Defence. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Secondly, I really think it's really great what we read in the newspapers of tomorrow, in which we report today's statements by the Federal Chancellor, the Interior Minister and the heads of state. At once it is everywhere, we now need to strengthen border security, i.e. extend border use. In the “Kronen Zeitung” of tomorrow, the German Chancellor is even quoted with the statement that there are apparently gaps at the eastern border. – Yes, what have we been saying for weeks? [[Abg. Bucher: For years!]] For weeks now, we have been drumming and pleading in committee! In the Committee on the Interior, we have been saying that there has been increased crime since the Schengen borders were removed. And the Minister of the Interior, the Federal Chancellor, all tell us that there is nothing to do with the case of the Schengen borders, with the borders everything is fine, that is a homemade crime. And now all at once we have to protect the boundaries? Somewhere there has happened a break, something is wrong in your line, because suddenly you realized that we are right from the BZÖ by warning against this open barn gate at our eastern borders. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's very interesting! This means that we have a huge political success, because we have pointed out to the government and now it is going to be serious with safeguarding the eastern borders. However, whether the extension of the German army's use at the border will bring about a massive reduction in crime, I dare to doubt it. I really dare to doubt that. The only thing that would really use would be if you were to officially withdraw the Schengen borders and close them to the East, so that more and more crime does not come into Austria, Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would also ask you, Minister Darabos, perhaps also Mr Köfer, the next speaker, and, in general, the SPÖ club, to clarify your line a little, for do you know who is the most vehement opponent of the federal army's border deployment? – A certain Mr Swoboda, his sign of the SPÖ’s EU candidate for tips. He said already in November of the previous year that the German army had lost nothing at the borders. That's what Mr Swoboda says, and he even sees it literally – that's completely absurd! – a violation of the basic values when the federal army is at the border because the military duties of the police have to be carried out. That's a violation of the basic values! In other words, you have a top candidate who runs in a completely different direction, and if you don't watch out, he's claping against the wall, but that's what's going to happen at the election. In any event, June will be the case, because you will be selected and will lose properly anyway. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Minister, two sentences on the doping issue. I am glad that the Parliamentary Subcommittee on the Sports Committee has opposed your attack on the athletes, against the fact that you simply want to criminalise the athletes in a wipe-up and also to prosecute all those who have already been detained. All the experts in the Committee have told you that this is absurd and that it does not do anything at all and has no preventive effect. Thank God there is also a consensus in this house – a broad consensus! – on the fact that this criminalization, as you intend to do to the athletes with a criminal prosecution, does nothing at all. We even have an ally in the government. I am very glad that your own Minister of Justice has driven you into the parade when she said that this does not do anything at all and that the Austrian laws, as they are now – and you can see it in the process – are far enough. That's what the Minister Bandion-Ortner said. She said we don't need a change of law. And she said another very important sentence, and I would have liked to hear it from you, Mr Sport Minister, that: Most of the athletes in Austria are clean. - Yes, that's what we're standing for. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] 99 percent of athletes in Austria are not doping sinners, are clean. You have to defend them, and you don't have to do it, so that abroad, all of Europe, the whole world must believe that Austria is a hort of doping sinners, just because we have carried a few black sheep. One more thing, Minister Darabos: This famous cycling race – from which I am not going down – that you have addressed in the “ZiB 2” you have still not been able to call me. I think that this is an extraordinary community to Parliament that you are in a committee where I asked you... They claimed in the public that “time in Figure 2” had to be cancelled in Austria because it was said that there would be doping controls, and suddenly so many participants had to be removed – the suspicion of doping – that the bike race could not take place. To date, Minister, the Austrian sports world and only quite the cycling world do not know which cycling race it is. You couldn't say it to this day. I therefore say quite consciously: You have the public, you have Parliament, you have misinformed us. You have said the untruth, and you should make this clear, Minister. Otherwise you should call this cycling race and stop – finally stop! – to criminalise ordinary athletes in Austria. We don't want that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the promotion of sport itself, I put forward a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for State Defense and Sport is invited to develop, in cooperation with the Austrian Sports Associations, a federal sports promotion concept that allows a targeted pooling of the financial resources, taking into account specified funding priorities, and to use a binding, uniform system with standardised parameters to evaluate the objectives developed.” What we want is not a sport promotion according to the principle of foundry, where the BSO is tearing the money under the nail, in itself giving the funding in the Commissions and then also controlling itself in the control committee itself. There is nowhere in the world that a promoter such as the BSO, Mr Wittmann, also acts as a promoter and then as a control instrument. This is not a proper grant, nor is it when, as we now know, it will also be more than €100 million in the special sport promotion, when we make good use of the funds from the gambling law. A completely new basis of sport promotion is necessary, an objective one. We want to set up a federal sports agency, which also has a proper economic Supervisory Board, which will review it, and we do not want to have BSO's own business in the field of sports promotion, so that suddenly at all corners and ends they decide for themselves who will get the money, and then they will control themselves. That can't go well. A “sport promotion” would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40765	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40829	Mr Köfer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40851	Mr President. Federal Minister! I welcome the news in the current media about the German Chancellor Faymann's statement that the German army's assistance on the border in the East is being extended. This has an economic but also a labour market policy reason. In difficult times, this is the right step for internal security. However, I am right for Mr Pilz, because we may need to strengthen and improve our soldiers, to transfer more skills to them, so that intervention is also guaranteed. In recent years, the soldiers of the Jägerbataillon 26 from Spittal have proved particularly positive in border protection, who have carried out their mission everywhere to the full satisfaction of the population living on the border. However, they were also an economically stabilising factor for the daily supply of local services in these border regions, and this is very important. I don't want to experience a single day in Austria without a federal army. I was personally involved several times when our dedicated soldiers worked in various natural disasters to the limit of their loadability. I remember the cleanup work after the devastating stormy depth Paula in Upper Carinthia or the unbureaucratic help last year in winter use. Without our federal army, these snow masses would not have been to be overcome. However, it is also worth mentioning the competent support for flood protection. So security must be worth something to us. Therefore, it is incomprehensible that the majority of the army budget takes 15 planes into “miscarriage”, aircraft that didn’t want any ground-based soldier, no sub-official, but no one officer really wanted. It was then these grasses and especially the Mr Rumpold, who brought their sheep into the dry and thus gave the Austrian federal army a bear service. It is a question of size that a single flight of the Eurofighter costs more than the average annual income of a professional soldier. The operating costs for one year could be used to buy about 100 most urgent, modern and powerful German army trucks or modern combat suits for about 17 000 soldiers. Mr Liste, I do not doubt the creativity of our Minister if he would not have to deal with these Eurofighters. Last year they caused operating costs of more than €40 million, 2010, when all 15 planes will finally arrive in Austria, the costs will rise to up to €65 million. It is incomprehensible, however, that the former head of state of Carinthia, whom I highly valued, and the then Minister of Defense Platter, in the context of the military reform, also wiped out the tragular squad of the Jägerbataillon 26 in Spittal. Unfortunately, the moaning words also remained unheard of by orange officers and political representatives at the time, and it was simply sacrificed this traditional and widely recognized, popular Tragtier Staff. My hope is that the Eurofighter acquisition and the savings needed by this purchase will lead to the failure to implement pointless parts of this military reform and will therefore not be able to comply with the withdrawal of the Tragtier Staff. Mr Darabos, I would like to thank you for your excellent work at a financially difficult stage, perhaps the most difficult phase in the Second Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40902	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40923	Mr President. The sports budget has a special feature in relation to all other areas, namely the connection with the sport promotion, which again hangs on the lottery business and is apparently one of the crisis winners in Austria, because the sports betting business is booming and continuing. That means that there will be more money for sports – next year, I think, at least € 6 or 7 million more than originally budgeted and 2010 seems to be much more significant. Somehow this is a special situation when you look at all the other areas. The absurdity of the situation is only that there has been an extreme commitment in the past and that the political design possibilities for the use of these funds have also been limited. That is exactly where I want to start today and use the debate on the sports budget to take up something you have already called for a number of times, namely that there must be at least a much greater transparency and that the associations and associations that are supported by relatively high resources, especially if suspicions arise – I now call the EOC keyword – have an obligation to have their financial performance checked independently. It is impossible that the ÖOC has still attached to the accusation of the Salzburg Regional Accounting Court that €150 000 of mutual cash flows between the ÖOC and the Olympic Funding Association have not re-appeared that these €150 000 are not available from the ÖOC to the Förderverein. [[Abg. Peter Haubner: Application company, not Förderverein!]] Okay, wurst; just how the money flows are everywhere is even more complicated there. The fact is: 150 000 € from a club where the OOC officials are sitting, cannot simply disappear without the consequences. They have repeatedly demanded – as far as I have followed this in the media – that the EOC should enable independent control of the financial resources. As far as I'm tracking the newspapers and the media, the EOC says: No, this is not happening in this form; although it is possible to control what is paid directly from the Ministry's funding, everything else cannot be controlled. You're standing there now and you can't do too much. By the way, because of the legal situation, you cannot do much in the next few years, because it is required by law how many funds and funding they are to receive. There is a simple motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: "The Federal Minister for Defence and Sport is invited to the National Council by 30. September 2009 to present a novel to the Federal Sports Promotion Act, which allows the Federal Minister to suspend the disbursement of funding if funded institutions fail to comply with an independent control of the entire financial event required by the Federal Minister.” So now that the application has been filed, the ball is with you. I hope that the government parties will also reflect on how they deal with it, because the excuse that there is no way to intervene will not count anymore. Either the government parties in the house say: We don't want to let that happen, or they don't put enough pressure on themselves. I think it's high time! It cannot be assumed that – we have heard this before – funds in the order of magnitude of – in Schilling, as it has always been so beautifully converted – flow over 1 billion schilling, suspect moments occur and cannot be controlled and looked at accordingly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you look a little more closely at the ÖOC and find out how high the annual funding is, by the way, and look at what happened to the money last year – namely, that a villa has been built in the famous Fontanapark of Mr Stronach, which cost more than €1 million, for which almost half of a year budget has gone up at that time, I think, so that you get a little housing – then it turns out that we really have a huge problem there. This form of self-control of autonomous sports is something we have been discussing for a long time. That's where we sort of encounter a concrete fraction: Mr Wittmann sits on one side, Mr Peter Haubner on the other. We have never really moved on because there are stakeholders sitting there and saying: We don't want that! I do not think this is acceptable in this form. We can – and we have never really questioned this – discuss the rules of autonomy, but the side of the medal of autonomy is transparency and control. Those who refuse transparency and control cannot take on autonomy. That is why this motion for a resolution is already something like a sample of nails, because what you have announced very often is here in the house. I assume that there will at least be some agreement on the part of the opposition, and the government parties are invited to allow transparency and control. On Friday we will know whether this request is going through; if not, then you have also lost the opportunity to complain about not being able to intervene.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e40980	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41032	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41059	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The national defence chapter is a very exciting one. That has been it in recent years, and of course this is all the more so in these days when it is now about the budget of the next few years again. The fundamentals are set when it comes to the development of the Austrian federal army, not later than since the Reform Commission outlined its reform path. But even though the course is set, it is now said to keep the locomotives and the trains in motion. That will be the essential task. Mr Darabos, Minister of State, it is therefore important to act with this budget – and not just to respond. But you have stressed that you are going to take this route of reform together. A warm thanks for the fact that due to this limited budget – and this is what you have to see – it will not be a patient shrinking process, but that it is nevertheless a targeted, orderly course that we can take together to make the federal army fit for the future, because the challenges facing us in this area are very big! We need a slender, but quite powerful, and efficient force, which can continue to fulfil the tasks it has to carry out, as in the past, it must be emphasized. These are, of course, the most immediate tasks, such as the national defence itself, the disaster aid that has increased considerably in recent years and has been done with great effort – to the delight of the Austrian population –, of course, the protection of our border, not a question, but also – and I think that is very important – the peace-keeping measures in the international community. It is precisely for these reasons that, even if this budget is somewhat reduced by the financial crisis, solidarity and courage for new reforms, for reforms with far-sighted vision, for reforms that ultimately give perspectives to the individual parts of the army. To this end, we know that there must be legal adjustments in various areas, both in remuneration and in retirement, but also in service law itself. And there must be re-purchasing, in the weapons and equipment, in the vehicles and also in the aircraft, that is no question. Mr Köfer, we are of course talking about a comprehensive national defence of land and water, but also in the air. Therefore, I think, it will be important, even as regards aircraft, to be well equipped in the future to be ready for all relevant events. Of course, we are now very excited about the establishment of the Evaluation Advisory Council, which is to be used until the summer – you have so announced, Minister of State. After that, we will focus on how this reform process can continue. I would particularly like to mention one subject area, since I am a member of both committees, both in the national defence committee and in the sports committee, which is the top sport in the army. I think that this was also a big element in which it was about motivating the people, the women and men in the federal army, but also about the image care and the outside effect. ==References====External links== Therefore, as has been said, this top-notch sport should also be further promoted. On the other hand, I mention it because it is in your responsibility, Mr Federal Minister, because it is about the sports budget, and because we experienced a very intense discussion by Bernhard Kohl on the last day, who then also gave a very open and very honest interview on German television and made some announcements in this regard. There, I think, some doping questions will continue to deal intensively or even more intensively with us in the future than in the past. I therefore believe that these funds should also be used very efficiently and specifically in the field of sport, especially for youth work, as well as for educational campaigns, for the accompanying and advisory management of these young athletes. I think it will be the case in the future if we put all this on the rail that we can give these young people opportunities and opportunities to reach top rankings in international sports without using illegal means. Then there will be successes that we can be proud of together without having to share this success with others. In this sense: thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41126	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41147	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Before I come to the defence budget, I can put forward a motion for a resolution, one, as I believe, very essential to continue the transformation accordingly. The first part of § 113h has been extended: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Defence and Sport is called upon to issue the decree of 21 December. January 2008, GZ S91354/7-PersA/2008 on the promotion of the mobility of the staff of the Federal Ministry of State Defense in the framework of the transformation process on the ÖBH 2010 target structure. to extend on July 2009.’ My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is also an essential part to continue or continue the reform – this should be possible with the Wehrbudget at all. One sentence: Mr Westenthaler has already mentioned it, and now also the alleged SPÖ Security Party, which is speaking today about Federal Chancellor Faymann and speaks of an extension of the assistance. I can add a few other quotations, which Mr Swoboda, the SPÖ's EU candidate for membership, has given in recent years. ==References== October 2007: “It is absolutely scandalous and unacceptable what is happening there.” From Christmas onwards, the German army on the border had ‘no longer lost and sought’.” The Styrian top candidate, Mr. Leichtfried, also says that the use of assistance contradicts the spirit of Schengen. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, in this area you have in all cases lost any credibility! But now you have to live with it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about the use of assistance in itself. Whether he is really useful in this form, not only do we doubt the soldiers, officers and sub-officials employed below, but we, the opposition, are very much in doubt. That it raises the security of the population may be true, but – and this is also the opinion of my group – the German army must be equipped there with proper competences to ensure a meaningful commitment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Minister Darabos, it is clear – and this must also be clear to the Minister for the Interior: The Federal Government at the Border is no substitute for the missing executive! If there are from 3,000 to 3,500 police officers today, the federal army there cannot carry out the tasks of the police permanently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Fichtenbauer has already mentioned: It can't be that this is always at the expense of the army budget. We all know that the Federal Army is financially bleeding. That is why I appeal to the Federal Government, then if the use is really extended, I would really ask the Ministry of the Interior for a checkout! I think that would be fair to the federal army. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the national defence budget, on the real topic: Mr Minister, today you have quite a nice list of how well it actually looks in Austria with the 2 or 3 percent that is now more. However, ladies and gentlemen – especially Prehauser and Kapeller – are also a bit different in other countries when looking at the share of gross domestic product. To name just a few: Greece 2.8 percent, Bulgaria 2.6%, France – of course a large nation – 2.3 percent, Germany 1.3 percent. There are only two countries within Europe, apart from Austria, where the value is less than 1%, and that is Ireland and Luxembourg. If you, Mr Kapeller, believe that this will change after the economic crisis is over, then you are a boundless optimist, I can only say. This debate has been held here in this House for decades, and nothing will change at all. Unfortunately, as long as red and black are in the government, it will remain so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to say one word to Mr Prehauser, to the SPÖ spokesperson: It is actually significant what access the SPÖ has to the state defense, when he says that the Federal Minister has succeeded in keeping the German army alive. – Thank you very much for keeping the German army alive, Minister! You simply have to admit that the current budget does not make it possible to push the reform forward accordingly. You also have to admit that the German army in this form only has been able to carry out further operations in recent years and decades through the use of the officers and sub-officiaries of the Federal Army, and has continued to fulfil the orders in Germany and abroad accordingly. At this point also thanks to the cadre staff once again! This is indeed an extremely good job, both domestically and abroad. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Minister Darabos, to conclude by asking: Even if the budget doesn't really grow into heaven now – as you do in the day's order in the Jän- We should at least pour pure wine. Let us give the services of pure wine, let us give the public pure wine – and let us say that this army budget is not enough! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The last final sentence comes from the newspaper “Der Soldier”, an independent soldier newspaper. It is said in the comment of the “observer” – that is what this column calls – in the closing phrase: “So, the cube has fallen: no necessary financial resources for the prescribed transformation over the next five to ten years.” – The consequences of this can be imagined by everyone. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The quote is not from the opposition, not from the FPÖ, but from the newspaper “The Soldier”, and that should give us some thought.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41290	The motion for a resolution tabled at the outset is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41344	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41365	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Dear colleagues at the Hohen Haus! Despite a difficult financial situation, the Austrian federal army has been equipped with more budgets than in the previous year. By 3.5 percent – already stressed by the Federal Minister today – the federal army's budget, the state defense, will rise. However, the fact that we are removed from the 1-percent target of GDP does not suggest that the present military budget could not fulfil all the tasks: national defence, civil protection, participation in international operations and assistance. Mr Darabos has also stressed in the Subcommittee that there will be no restrictions and that the tasks I have just mentioned are not at risk. As a youth speaker, however, it is important to me that the German army also makes a significant contribution to the promotion of youth training. In order to support apprentices for the civilian labour market, the Marketing Department of the Ministry of Defence offered application training for apprentices in Vienna and Salzburg in the third and fourth academic years at four dates in March. 230 apprentices in around 30 professions are currently in the Austrian Federal Army, 62 of these apprentices are currently women. Each year, 50 to 80 apprentices complete their studies with the Federal Army and then usually look for a job in the private sector. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Youth Spokesman!]] Mr Federal Minister, it is important to me, however, that the tasks are a significant contribution to the promotion of youth training. I would like to thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister, for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is not a new action by the Federal Army, but since 1982, apprentices have been trained by the German army in apprenticeship training facilities, which are available in all federal states except Burgenland and Vorarlberg. Most apprentices are trained either as cooks, car technicians, aircraft technicians, warehouse logistics and communications technicians. The training of apprentices in the Austrian Federal Army is an important labour policy measure that helps apprentices to make an education at all on the limited labour market. You will receive a good and multi-year training from the German army as well as further promotions such as the application trainings already mentioned above and many contacts with companies. It's a chance to get involved in the work process. It offers a good opportunity for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41406	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41429	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! It is always interesting to listen to the statements made by the representatives of the government parties, how great this budget would be and the defence budget would be the greatest and best at all. [[Abg. Riepl: There you can learn something!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Watch out!]] – In essence, this budget for the defence of the state remains almost nothing! That is significant, I say quite consciously, because this federal army is the body that should ultimately protect all democratic institutions – and thus democracy in Austria. This recognises the value that you recognize to these institutions, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. A budget of €2.2 billion in European comparison is essentially very small – that has already been said – is actually a military and security-political disgrace in Europe. If you look at the condition of the barracks, then you see that there, where the recruits are housed, some of the cleaning crumbles down, actually pitiful conditions; and, contrary to that, you will see luxury prisons for pedestal criminals with flat screen television and with a view to the green. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there must be no such thing in Austria! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I remember that 90 percent of the recruits of Upper Austria have to commute! That's where the Minister says: Yes, but to the neighbouring state. – I want the Upper Austrian recruits to enter Upper Austria too! If the President of the Officers' Society informs us, all Members, in writing – that is, 6 000 members – that this budget is essentially no longer a means of maintaining disaster aid and that the militia has essentially been abolished, I ask you: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Is that all right? - No, that's not all right! [[Abg. Riepl: Who bought the expensive flyers?- Oh, my God!]] On border security – because you now play a major role in security policy on the part of the EIA and SPÖ during the EU election campaign – I note: To date, this is a proposal by the Federal Chancellor, who finally turned to BZÖ line after years. He supports us in securing the borders in the East, namely in Lower Austria, in Burgenland, but also in Upper Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Temple shooting, executions in the Turks Millieu, house and apartment collapses with an increase of 40 percent, car thefts in Upper Austria with a plus of 70 percent – one can no longer be impoverished, that can no longer be thought away, since Schengen has failed! It is said that the Schengen border to the outside is not certain, we must secure the borders ourselves in the future. And now comes for you the safety-policy nail sample: You must also give the Federal Government the security police powers to do so. I would like to make a request because on the one hand we have more security at the border and we want to revitalize the federal army, but on the other hand we want to relieve the executives. That is why, on behalf of the Members, I am tabling the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you do not agree, then everything you have said here about border protection and border security in Burgenland was sound and smoke and nothing worth it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41526	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41580	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41601	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Dear Minister, it makes sense to invest the record of €113 million in Austrian sport. Sport does valuable work in many areas of society. In this context, I would like to expressly mention the honoraryness in the more than 13 000 associations. This is about health care, personal education, social integration, national but also regional identity, but it is also about the positive development in relevant economic sectors or the labour market. The record amount of € 113 million in Austrian sport will be invested with certain priorities. These priorities are set correctly and also important. It is the youth work, it is the infrastructure development of Austrian sport, it is the sporting events in the country and not least the fight against doping. Especially on the fight against doping – also due to the really worrying developments in recent months or days, we would like to say that special attention should be paid to this area in particular. The valuable area of activity of NADA needs to be further strengthened. Doping controls must be developed qualitatively and quantitatively. This budget is already concerned about it – yet extensible, but still. At the end of this development, the true values of sport, namely fairness, honesty and team spirit, must again be the focus. The importance of sports, especially in economically uncertain times like today, must therefore not be ignored, because sport is an essential and strong economic factor. Some figures from the budget: €8 million in flexible additional resources from the section of the § 11a Federal Sports Promotion Act, €3.6 million for the sports events – here the Alpine Ski World Cup in Schladming, the Judo World Cup, the European Handball Championship or the Volleyball European Championship – and €3 million for the infrastructure expansion of Austrian sport. In this context, the General Rehabilitation of the Olympic Hall in Innsbruck, the last rate, or the completion of the Nordic Training Centre in Villach or the Ball Sports Competence Centre in Klagenfurt are mentioned. Another € 2 million – also a very important area – go to the fight against the lack of movement in children, keyword: ‘Fit for Austria’. Sports, however, is also one of the most important tourism factors, especially in Styria, especially in the Dachstein-Tauern region, in the city of Schladming. Schladming is one of the most attractive ski sports areas worldwide. Just think of the “Night slalom Schladming”: 50,000 spectators on site – we speak German! – and 30 million in front of the television. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tadler]] This has an advertising value of about €11 million for the region of Schladming and Styria. For the upcoming World Ski Championships, huge sums will also be invested by private individuals in the region. The Alpine Ski World Cup 2013 in Schladming is an initial inflammation for the region, but also for the whole of Styria, both for performance sports and for the tourism industry. These investments are linked to long-term developments. In any case, investments of this kind are worthwhile. You think of the last Alpine Ski World Cup in Schladming, 1982. The Alpine Ski World Cup is for Austria, especially for the Styria and for the region, when you calculate the advertising value and the return on the way, something like a lotto six, even if it wasn't a gambling game, but we worked out this Ski World Cup very hard. Finally, the undersupply of the city of Graz with outdoor pools seems to end. Thank you for that, Minister! The finalisation of the Eggenberg sports pool is the end of this under-supply. With the sport bath suitable for performance sports, but also with the wellness oasis, which will be available to all Grazers, a special symbiosis is created for Grazers. Here too, there is a longer-term and stable value for Graz. Even though it can be more and more, in sports and everywhere, we are satisfied and hope that all these things will last. I'm convinced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41675	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41696	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister! Even though I would like to talk about football as a new city in Vienna, I will focus on social security in this country because it has long been no longer a horse for social democracy. On the contrary: Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann and Minister of Defense Norbert Darabos are no longer trying to gallop themselves in the horse, no, it seems more like they're bullrids. You all know that, that's this mechanical bull device that's trying to throw people off. I feel like they're sitting on it, swinging cowboy hat, trying to hold on and wonder why they're not coming out of place anymore. In the area of national defence, this cowboy play is extremely evident. The highlight of their play is today's demand for extension of assistance in the eastern border area. This is a clear populist answer, namely: The Federal Chancellor's populist response to a lack of security policy, a lack of financial security, a lack of social security for all people living in Austria. It is also your waste of money, Mr Minister, and that in times of crisis. I hope you are proud of this populism, because of us there is a clear no to extend the use of assistance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Social security is no longer an issue. One has the impression that this is about military uncertainty. And the patron of this military uncertainty is Chancellor Werner Faymann. 12 to 13 percent of the budget flows into the overall system of totally useless Eurofighters. This overall project consumes almost €600 million in public funds in 2009 and 2010. For comparison only: The youth budget has a total project funding of €2.5 million. Upgrading is definitely done through arms purchases and ammunition procurement. And in the question I asked you about why this was so increased, it was explained: After completion of the plans for the procurement of ammunition, the proposal has been adapted to the new structures and requirements. Unfortunately, no word has been said about what the new structures and the requirements are. In addition, voluntary arms exercises are now to be reintroduced, with a clear increase in the budget. This extra edition in the wrong direction, this extra edition in the wrong place now comes to the point that it is required to extend the use of assistance. We Greens think this is wrong. I also ask the SPÖ to at least think about it by Friday, because by then you have time to carry along with the motion for a resolution of Mr Peter Pilz. The money spent here must go to other places, namely security of executive, internal security, protection and security. I mean, the federal army uses the slogan “protection and help” and the police protection and security. The police or executive officers are responsible for internal security. I'd like to give you one more. Another request was answered, with the question of the amount of budgeting for the possible assistance of the German army at the eastern borders for 2010. The answer came: In the case of renewal, appropriations shall be provided. – The question is: Where does this money come from? We Greens say clearly: Social security instead of military uncertainty – that must be the foreign exchange.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41769	Mr Christ. — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41791	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! High house! The current sports budget as a whole can not only be considered a solid basis for the future of sport due to the very encouraging development of the special federal sport promotion, but also to the lotteries. Many large sporting events – we have already heard it today – stand in the house both in winter and in summer. There our large Austrian sports family is just required to show their organizational talent again. I know that our Sports Minister Darabos will provide the best possible support as part of the budgetary possibilities. Movement and sport are among the most important health promotion and health conservation measures. Many jobs have been and will be created in this area. Countless indispensable volunteer officials support the sport. I join Peter Haubneran's words of thanks to the many officials, who deserved a warm thanks. But they all need safety and predictability. I think that this budget is a good one. Wide-ranging sports are just as important to us as top-ranking sports, the umbrella associations as the professional associations, the paralympics as the Special Olympics – all are international signboards and ambassadors for a sports enthusiast in Austria! However, the support of the top-level sport is more than just a promotion of the maximum sporting performance. Our top athletes demonstrate performance, are often role models for youth, profess to fairness and equal opportunities, the central values for clean sports. All the more pain the events of the last days, especially with regard to our crashed cyclist Bernhard Kohl. More scandalous things have emerged at each press conference. However, I am particularly disturbed by the repeated flat-rate suspicions and indications in the direction of other athletes and professional associations. This hurts the sportsmen, it hurts the sport as a whole and is absolutely not in order. We should put everything on the table and really cooperate with the authorities, rather than put it into space in a piece of suspicion, even beyond our national borders. [[Congratulations to Dr. Cap and Dr. Oberhauser.]] These events once again show how important the fight against doping abuse, against fraud against the countless honest and clean athletes and against unjust references to funding and sponsoring funds is. Ladies and gentlemen, with the current active subcommittee of the Sports Committee, we are on the right track to further develop and improve our internationally recognised anti-doping federal law. At any rate, the events surrounding doping in top-level sports have shown that we need to support our national anti-doping agency more strongly. If someone dares to say in public, since the 19th century. To have been professionally baptized, controlled two hundred times and caught only once is the best evidence for a clearer and more intensive support of NADA, both human and financial. This is undoubtedly a task not only to the Minister of Sports, but, in my opinion, also to the umbrellas and trade associations, because they suffer the most from these doping sins and are put into compassion there. Finally, I would like to mention the many positive initiatives in kindergartens, schools and senior associations, which are offered in particular by our umbrella organisations. There is really every euro that is best and useful. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Even though the economic crisis affects us in many parts of society, we want at least in the field of sport to make it possible to balance, safety, scattering and shared experience through sports activity and movement. Our Minister of Sports is a guarantee for the fight for fair, fair, clean sports. Together with this sports budget, we want to provide opportunities, support and continue to make the sports country Austria positive. For these comprehensive and important tasks, every euro in the sports budget is necessary and indispensable. I naturally give a clear rejection to any wishes for redeployment into the army budget, which is not in question for me.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41881	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41902	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, in your speech – which I, by the way, considered very comprehensive in terms of what is actually available to you – you have said that you want to implement projects for everyday military life into reality. A project for the daily life of soldiers, for example, would be a night exercise. A night exercise can no longer be carried out today, however, because we lack the necessary staff because the overtime can no longer be paid, because we are no longer spending the resources that produce such a night exercise. Night exercises cause personnel costs, and there is a lack of there. I do not want to bother you any more now with all these problems of a very low budget, I just want to give you one thought. Perhaps you can find some comfort in this, because I am convinced that the federal army and the state defense are really your concern. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Are!]] The budget you have at your disposal corresponds to the value of 15 percent of our budget deficit; 15 percent of the loss the Austrian state will make this year and the next year is the amount of your budget. So that you know what value we obviously put in the national defence: it is almost no value at all. In the Subcommittee of the Budget Committee, when the chapter on National Defence was discussed, I asked you how much man, how many eligible soldiers are ready to use, could bring you up in the case of defence in an appropriate time, for example within a month. After questioning your General Staff, you told me: 55,000 soldiers. Well, this number of 55,000 soldiers sounds pretty good first. 55 000, which are about ten brigades plus the army, plus airplanes and what you need. Only, how to get from You really are this 55,000 man? Every year, if I remember your figures correctly, we make up about 16 000 soldiers. The 16 000 soldiers are there only half a year because they are only half a year in training. Then they are considered trained, but then they go home. And then they may still be a little bit aware of what they learn during their training – a six-month training! - have learned. This six-month training is still hindered by sending these soldiers into the border deployment, in the assistance mission. There they can no longer be trained, so they receive a month less, i.e. only five months of training. And now you want to offer from these soldiers who send you home after half a year, a 55 000-powered army that can actually occur in the case of defence? Mr. Federal Minister, you know and I know that God can never and never happen in the foreseeable future, but if it happened, you, perhaps, too, because I cannot prevent it, would be responsible for a bloodbath, because they are not trained, they can't do anything! We don't have a military army anymore, because we don't have that anymore, you still dream, that we can then offer the military soldiers who are being trained every two years, who receive a freshening of their training every two years. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We don't have that anymore! Six years ago They can give this answer calmly, because six years ago we had a functioning military system, we had thousands of militants who went home after their training and came a year later or two years later to the first exercise that refreshed their training, who knew exactly which association they belong to, which unit they belong to, who are their group and train and company commanders and in what composition they use. It's all gone today. Our national defense is as sick today as never before! I do not think that you, Federal Minister Darabos, are inherently not to blame for it. In the course of your work as Minister of Defense, however, the blame you bear on the fact that we no longer have a national defence is getting bigger and bigger, because you have to turn the spear around! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You've got to say stop! I know you're not a soldier. I know you can't do this out of your solo feeling or out of your Soviet heart, but as a politician you have to do it! You have to state as a politician: Do we want a national defense in Austria, yes or no? And if we want one, it must be a real one and not what we have now! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You want to create projects for the daily life of soldiers – a good project. Try first, however, to create that one of these projects is that we can perform night exercises again for our young men and young women who serve as soldiers with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41973	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e41994	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! With reference to the statements made by Mr Westenthaler, I would like to say one thing: that after the Second World War one has decided to become the autonomy of sport, that sport of our constitution is in itself a matter of country, and that only part that receives money autonomously was, after the Second World War, a federal matter and then one has created one's own pot. So it's not like he said that. It is still national, and it is pots that are in the autonomy of sports. Also, the control does not take place as he said that you control yourself. In the control bodies, as well as in other supervisory councils, tax advisors, economic managers and lawyers are represented who ultimately control the BSO. Whether you call the Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Commission, it cannot be – as I mean – lying down. Secondly, I think we can be satisfied with this budget. We have created an opportunity, together with the Federal Ministry, to make targeted use of the additional resources available for this year. We have already adopted this article in recent weeks. I mean, the possibility of controlling there is very well given. However, it is also a challenge of sports that children in compulsory schools are becoming increasingly thicker, that 40 percent of children in the classes are overweight that 16 percent of children are already at risk of obesity in compulsory schools. I believe that sport offers the only approach and continues to give people the best way to counter it by movement. There are more and more active seniors due to age. The sport offer should also be extended for this target group. And it is also important to continue to catch up in business sports and to set accents in all those areas. The Ministry does this with instructions. I believe that the budget is sufficient to meet these requirements, and finally more money is available in sport. And having more money in this area also means contributing to the health of the entire population. I think the sport meets this requirement through the offers.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42034	The next speaker was Mr Spadiut. I can tell you that four speakers have been spoken by your group. The rest of your group's speaking time is 9 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42055	Mr President. Minister! High house! School sports, physical training in schools, gymnastics are very neglected. Not only the very limited number of gym hours, but also the type of exercise of the sports hours is worrying. 19 percent of the 6 to 15-year-old schoolchildren are overweight, of which 8 percent are obese. The school doctors and the sports teachers are required to eliminate this abuse preventively and therapeuticly. The key task is for the school doctors. In addition to body size and body weight, these should raise the health status and fitness of the students. This could be carried out in the light of the performance test of the fire brigade's respirators. In this test, endurance, fitness, lung function and many other parameters are recorded that provide information on the health status of children. These parameters should be used in cooperation with the sports teachers to develop a training programme for the sports hours. The gymnastics should not be designed in such a way that football, handball or running is on the program depending on the mood of the respective gymnastics. Through targeted training, the state of health and the fitness of the students can be improved. It is easy to hold the lessons in different groups and perform different training programs depending on the fitness of the groups. It is also not said that there can be no homework in sports lessons. Although the task of performing sit-ups, deck support, running or walking cannot be checked, it can be an incentive for additional physical activity. I consider that there is also a nutritional advice for these training programs by school doctors and sports teachers to be a matter of course. Ladies and gentlemen! These measures can improve the poor physical condition of our children. It is a good approach in the right direction. The necessary resources should be taken into account in the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42100	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42122	Mr President. Minister! Dear viewers! High house! I am now taking a position on gender mainstreaming in sports and top sports. When there is often talk of top-level port in connection with gender mainstreaming, one sees again and again how important the area of sport is for an emancipative policy. Normally, it should be obvious that there are no gender differences in sport as well as in all other areas of life. Successful girls and women must be respected and recognized for their achievements, including by public authorities and politics. In the Government Programme of XXIV. The legislative period is based on the need to promote gender action in sport and specific girls and women’s sports projects, as well as to promote gender equality through appropriate funding priorities. Girls and women are still under-represented in top and performance sports. Therefore, it must be clear that the participation and representation of athletes in international major sports events such as Olympic Games, European Championships and World Championships must be increased. Only in this way can women's deficit be countered in sport. Austria has committed itself to implementing gender mainstreaming in national policy. However, it must also be noted positively that in 2008 money for sports such as girl football, women's boxes, rowing and so on was already spent and an interministerial working group on gender mainstreaming started its work. I am very confident that under Minister of Sport Norbert Darabos women are supported in top and performance sports and that girls and women, boys and men in sport can find a field of action of equal participation. Finally, a few words about the budget: The sports budget is 113 million €, and this is the largest item in the second Republic. I would like to see the opportunity today to congratulate Mr Darabos. He managed to get more money for the sport. Thanks in the sense of all sportsmen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42165	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42186	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Faster, higher, stronger: The Austrian Leis- ing sport is increasingly subject to these criteria. With all possible and unfortunately also impossible means, athletes try to achieve a best performance, which is terrifyingly also by doping, not only since the media coverage in recent weeks and months. The dimensions or effects of doping move in the grey area. Long-term damage will not be mediated and discussed only in a short time. It has long been time to oppose the doping effectively in order to allow for detection and the necessary financial scope. In our view, NADA's resources are not just doubled, but tripled to remedy them. That's where the money would be useful. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Clearly, it is too little controlled. The frequency is too low, the cost of the investigations is enormous, considering that control already devours €1,000 per athlete. Due to the new, increased sales results of the Austrian lotteries from May 2009, the organized sport is now estimated to be € 22 million more than in the double budget 2009/2010, according to § 20 Glücksspielsgesetz on special federal sports promotion. In addition, through the special federal sport promotion, the sports associations receive much more sport promotion than in the previous years, by removing the cover of federal sports promotion in 2005. Together with the associations, the operators of sports equipment, the top but also the width sport, it is important to draw a line: for a healthy, clean sport in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42238	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42259	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Some of my previous speakers have already pointed out the financial resources of the sports budget and the legal tasks. Sports is not just a leisure activity, but sport is an essential part of a health-oriented policy, a family support and integration-oriented policy. For social and health reasons, we must ensure that access for all groups of the population, in particular those of children and young people to sport, and also financial security and security, are improved in order to provide these opportunities. The historical and largest sports budget is an opportunity for sports, combined with a great responsibility. The aim must be to continue to force top-level sports together with organised sports, to invest more strongly in young people and together to place health and wide-ranging sports on a broad basis. There is no contradiction if there is talk in this context of broadband and top-notch sports, but there are to be mutual impulses here. Estimated ladies and gentlemen, around € 71 million of the sports budget is due to the special federal sport funding, which is the basic funding for club sports in Austria. Policy has to create the framework conditions for sports in Austria. However, the global association network in Austria is the basis for a good sports operation. We should recognise the importance of this area, which it actually holds. The common interest, the partnership of state and organised sport, the partnership between federal, country and local authorities, the economy and the media, is the central objective of our joint project to develop an alliance for sport with all parties involved. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also difficult to find a solution to the problems of the economy. At times, Federal Minister Darabos has succeeded in negotiating a significant improvement in the financial framework in this budget. It is the basis for versatility, for sports activities, for widths, but also for top sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42298	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42320	High house! I'm talking about doping today. From my point of view, this discussion is a little shambles when one looks at the fact that, in some sports without doping, it is no longer possible to keep up with the world in the leading field, whether this is cycling, whether it is weight lifting, if the areas of athletics are the areas of athletics. I could continue the list here infinitely. That is, those who want to compete in international top-notch sports in Austria are forced to help out accordingly. [[Abg. Grandruck: chess games!]] The problem goes a lot further. China is now the largest doping country on earth, taking most of the money there, investing in the development of new, innovative doping agents. 90 percent of innovative doping products now come from China. There are also thousands of people in international sports who are baptizing. And if one stretchs out one's head, then according to the motto: Get the fuck out of here! This is what has been said, and then you move on to the agenda. But, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go to the agenda here. I'm just taking one example: Remember that the Tour de France goes over 3,200 kilometers, overruns 33,000 metres – five times up to Mount Everest – and the whole thing in three weeks, with an average speed of 40 kilometres. – I don’t know who rides a bike, but it’s hard to drive for an hour at 30 km/h – but straight ahead and not up to a mountain as in this case with 40 hour kilometres and the three weeks. That's why I can say one thing: If we do not go away from the principle faster, higher, and if we do not go away from requiring our athletes to do so in order to meet our need for ever greater records, then we will not solve the problem in the long term. That is, in order to solve the problem of doping, we must give the athletes an alternative beyond the doping. You must have the opportunity to find results and recognition in our system with a performance that, as it were, is adapted to human possibilities. If we do, we can guarantee a fair sport at least in Austria; if we do not succeed, then unfortunately it does not look good at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42354	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42378	Mr President. Minister of Sports! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk again briefly about the security question, because the governments of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Federal Republic of Germany are now trying to re-establish themselves as a security party. [[Abg. Singer: Are we too! We're too!]] –You have clearly forgotten that just in the period from 2000 onward Minister Ernst Strasser with tolerance from FPÖ and BZÖ – as always was at that time; now he is the top candidate of the ÖVP for the European Parliament election – the one who has saved more than 2,000 police officers, locked dozens of police inspections and smashed the police’s structures out of political motivation. [[Abg. Grosz: ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Pendl: Oh, that's it! Listen, listen!]] – Just so much to remember, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, Minister of Sport Darabos, warm congratulation! The general agreement of the opposition to this sports budget is a sign that you are particularly committed to sports – not as someone who is watching the sport down only from the VIP gallery, but as someone who is really behind the sport with full political commitment. [[Abg. Grosz: The Pendl is responsible for thanking you!]] Three brief remarks: A great desire in addition to the fight against doping is the fight against the system of player managers, the mediation agencies and the profitable abuse of young athletes. Secondly, Thanks for the solution proposal, which now stands in the room to bring out athletes and trainers with a flat-rate free amount from a grey zone. A desire for the media, in addition to the top sports, to bring the sport of disabled people, young researchers and marginal sports more to the public’s attention – as motivation for young sportsmen and as an incentive for sponsors. Finally, the desire to preach a daily hour of movement in school not only here, but also to motivate teachers to do so. It does not have to be the unloved rim upswing, the bock or the box, but you can also motivate the children with attractive exercise to move daily. [[Abg. Pendl: Bravo!]] That would do our society a good health policy. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42471	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. Your group's remaining speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42493	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! This budget promises nothing good for the defence resort, especially not for the public servants. You already have the special situation in your house that after the previous reform you have 850 jobs to survive, you even have to create your own project jobs. What is now true is another 913 sites that will be deleted by 2013; You're saying that's what happened in the wake of retirement. This means a high degree of flexibility, and I think you must then also go in the direction that you change the right to serve. Mr Höfinger of the ÖVP has mentioned it briefly, stating that legal adjustments are necessary. I hope you do not forget the current situation. Your soldiers are highly discouraged, which must not surprise you in view of the form in which you have led this place so far. You've got a maximum here. measure of responsibility, and we can only appeal to you: Take care of this too! You only need to remember the year 2002, in which everyone was happy and happy that this federal army has done excellent work in the fight against floods. This is only possible with really motivated employees in the public service. Finally, another appeal regarding the 230 apprentices. – Yes, that is welcome and to support. They form in about 30 professions. Minister! I ask you to: Check to see to what extent you can bind and keep as many as possible in the department after completion of the teaching! I believe that this is also an obligation for a Social Democratic Minister. All in all, it can be noted that the opposition cannot have better evidence than the officer company, which has expressed itself in a clear form. All we have heard here from representatives of the government parties has turned to yourself if you are not supported by your own officers for your plans. In any case, you will not be supported by us on this package of measures you have presented.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42532	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42564	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister of Defense and Sports! Mr Windholz, I have often read issues of the officer company and I can remember that even in times when the SPÖ has not put the Minister of Defence, the officer company has always been very critical of the budget, because of its great interest and commitment to its own concerns. As regards the sports budget, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention very briefly that all budgets are essentially also about strategic policy orientations. Federal Minister Darabos has clearly demonstrated the direction in which it should go, namely that sport is an essential and important cross-sectional matter. We have already heard in many speeches today, sports have a direct effect in the health field, a direct effect also in the economic field – if we consider what great value added is generated by sports – and an important function also in job security. Therefore, it is necessary that we invest in sports, and that has also worked well. On this occasion, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you very much for establishing an international table tennis competence centre in Austria, namely the Werner Schlager Academy, which will be established in Schwechat – a performance center that is still nowhere in this form throughout the world. Austria has again put its sports competence in the foreground. This academy, this service center could have been built in Sweden, Spain or Germany – it comes to Austria, it comes to our country. This means that our essential sports function is also particularly determined and expressed internationally, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So thank you very much for this commitment. You, Mr. Federal Minister, show that you are not for nothing a very sport-refining minister, and above all – and this is the essential – you also have a clear view of the importance of giving sport in our country the importance it needs. [[Abg. Singer: Image Care!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42609	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42631	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! A little final word – yes? Thank you. I would like to comment once again on the constitutional condition of the continued use of the German army's assistance and on a number of other points. This Pingpong-Funk opinion here, divided by ministerial officials who also have high quality in legal matters – that is unquestionably – is not all. I invite you to make the following constitutional consideration: Firstly, the state structure. How is it described and determined, namely in territorial and functional terms? – Divided between the federal government and countries through legislation and enforcement and through the powers and the powers assigned. – This is largely the framework. The military state defense is the responsibility of the German army – that is the clear allocation of competence – and the internal security must be carried out by the Federal Minister for the Interior. As a bridge for, we say, state of emergency in the field of internal security, there is the possibility of using assistance to the military by the civil authority. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] - Wait, I've got 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42667	I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42682	Thank you very much. It is clear from the entire constitutional order that this could always be a conspicuous, ad hoc state for a short time, otherwise we would have a parallel competence between the Ministry of the Interior and the military state defense. That is not the case, however. Now we've got some assistance. Burgenland/Lower Austria: We have a continued assistance mission for 17 years. And I say that through the course of time it is obvious that the idea of the Constitution is actually undermined. - First of all. Second point: In the current use of assistance, the military has to complain, I say now, no other competence, than “footgoers”, to use infantryists, who look and perhaps report something remarkable. – This is an empty competence, a completely empty competence, that is, it is a sham assistance. The further question is whether the Federal Minister for Defence would be entitled to reject a request for assistance that he did not think was right, which is dubious. However, it is right to ask whether the Federal Government as a collegial body, which it is not really, maintains a constitutional state in a common sense. This is open to discussion, the question has not been finally answered. I think that the illegality of the Constitution should be confirmed. Secondly, and I'm very important: Lutz Weinzinger has already said that to the Minister of State for Defence would be to apostrophe, that he is sure he is good. – Yes, that’s entirely my opinion. All the evils that have been committed, he inherited, he didn't cause. He's only politically responsible now, so the manger hits him. But he knows that with the day he is praised as a minister. So, de facto, we have an “inheritance sin ” that has burdened the army from the very beginning. It is not taken seriously, it is not sufficiently doped, and there is in fact a political class under the lower level that allied to parts of the media, which likes to meet the army with ridicule, according to the motto: [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Those who go to the army are a little bit the fools who have not been able to judge it! There are a number of prominent rulers to which this applies. I don't want to name any names now – some are sitting here – but the Mr Keck's call during the speech by Comrade Lutz Weinzinger encouraged me to these associations, which I unfortunately still have to offer. Lutz Weinzinger has spoken about the need for night exercises and military training, and Mr Keck has intervened: Wash the plate! – That is, the washing of the plate is the old political concept of some political leaders who do not tire of overtaking the army with open or secret ridicule. That is, as it were, the original sin, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At least in here, you should act as if you were taking the army seriously and showing the comrades officers and sub-offenders, who have always served the army with reckless reluctance of personal interests, the minimal respect that the legislative body would have to show for the fulfilment of a state-necessary activity, which is in the Constitution and which is also to be done with emotion and duty. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] – Getting So Strong You can't scream to prevent me from putting this message here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42774	There are no more words available. At the end of the section ‘Land defense and sport’, I would like to see the head of the General Staff, Mr. General Mag. [[towards gallery]] Entacher, and his masters, who have attended the consultation, send a warm greeting. [[General condolences.]] The topic “Land defense and sport” has thus ended. I'll interrupt the meeting tomorrow, Wednesday, 27th. May, 9 a.m. We will start with the section “Economics, Family and Youth”. I would also like to point out that a meeting of the Constitutional Committee in Local VI is taking place now, following the interruption of today's plenary deliberations. The sitting was suspended. [[18:56:59]] [[The meeting was held on Tuesday, 26 May. May 2009, at 18.57 p.m. and on Wednesday, 27 May 2009. On 9 May 2009, continued at 9.02 a.m.]] [[09:02:23]] Continued the meeting: Wednesday, 27. May 2009, 9.02 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42847	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll take the interrupted 23. National Council meeting again. On today's day, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Haberzetl, Großruck, Praßl and Dr. Haimbuchner. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42877	I announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is the Federal Minister for Science and Research Dr. Johannes Hahn, Federal Minister for Defence and Sport Mag. Norbert Darabos is represented by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Doris Bures. We continue with the budget consultation. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42928	For today’s session day, a block-time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been decided, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each122 minutes, FPÖ 108 minutes as well as BZÖ and greens per 95 minutes. With regard to the design of debates on the parts on the agenda today, I refer to yesterday's speeches. All of this has been decided at the meeting last Wednesday. [[09:03:48]] Economy, family and youth UG 40: Economy UG 33: Economy (Research) UG 25: Family and Youth
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e42971	The business, family and youth section is given advice. Before I give the floor to the first speaker, Mrs Club President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek speaks on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43001	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A week ago, Chancellor Faymann spoke of civil courage from the government bank, of a clear attitude when it comes to igniting resentments towards anti-Semitism and religious hostility. Unfortunately, we now have a current occasion by which I see the dignity of the house damaged in such a blatant way that there must be consequences. I'd like to make you feel comfortable. The third president of the National Council, Dr. Martin Graf, wrote or wrote a comment on his website “www.unzensurierte.at”, which is also printed in the “New Free Newspaper”. I quote: “The extended arm of Mr. Muzicant is the violent left mob on the streets. With his insults, the President of the Israeli Cultural Community creates a climate of political brutality, which is why many citizens already ask themselves whether he should not be called a patriot of antifascist left terrorism. Behind the people who demonstrate against ‘Nazis’ in the wake of musicians and consorts, there are violent anarchists who want to put the population in fear and terror and destabilize democracy in our country. There is no big difference to Mr. Muzicant, the finely dressed in the time-in-picture, his attacks, because he too is about limiting freedom of expression to the death of every real democracy." [[Call the Greens: Unbelievable!]] I think these sentences are incredible. They not only damage the dignity of this House, they damage the reputation of Parliament and the reputation of the Republic of Austria: here and abroad. I demand consequences! It is not only with a meeting in the Presidency. Of course, I would also ask the club members of the other political groups to strongly condemn and reject those statements made by a third President of the National Council as representatives of this House and to give the right light to what Austria and the Austrian Parliament say is on the ground of antifascism. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would ask for treatment in the President-in-Office; we will have to discuss this safely in the President-in-Office's office. However, I also demand clear opinions today and here, because they should not be hidden from the public behind the closed doors of the Presidents, but today there are clear attitudes and backbones in demand. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43060	Mr Klubobmann's head spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43084	Madam President. High house! I too was made aware of this yesterday by a letter from Musicant. I agree fully with the words of my colleague, Mrs Glavischnig. This must be condemned and rejected. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] I was going to do that in the next presidential... [[The speaker's microphone is out of place.]] Madam President, I had no intention of talking about this matter at the next President-in-Office. [[The speaker's microphone is missing again.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Go to the microphone!]] [[Abg. Head makes the so-called windshield wiper movement.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Grosz is very funny again!]] [[Abg. Grosz: To the other micro!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Madam President, have you seen the wiper?]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Then let him act! What are you doing?- Oh, my God!]] [[The speaker goes to another microphone.]] Madam President. I had no intention of talking about this matter at the next presidential level, but that is not the only thing that Mrs Glavischnig has done – and that is the only thing that Mrs Glavischnig has done. I would ask Mr Grosz to join us at last on such serious issues and to abandon these unqualified calls. [[Congratulation with ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens]] In addition to the debate in the President, I suggest that we try to make a statement on this subject of all five club members, in which we strongly reject this matter, which was previously addressed by Mr Glavischnig. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43210	Mr Weinzinger spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43234	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a political debate, and there are also tough words in political debate. [[No call at the SPÖ]] I am well aware of the need to make an effort not to exceed each other's borders, but they are constantly being exceeded to us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will be put down as if we were the worst fascists, as if we were the descendants of any authoritarian political group, but which, first of all, would come to power again, forbid us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] That is why I would like to ask you to understand that our reaction is also a bit worse if, for example, we have to see that in Linz our posters are left over, with inscriptions that say that we have to come to Guantánamo or elsewhere and that we are banned. [[Calls for Greens]] Therefore, reactions from us are understandable. The fact that we are always treated by the President of the Israeli Cultural Community as the last of all should be known. I do not think there will be a joint statement in the Presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43296	Mr Klubobmann spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43320	Madam President. High house! I believe that this is a fundamental question, so of course we also condemn these wordings – as Mr Klubobmann Kopf and Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig did. We also believe that this is not enough with a presidential discussion, and place emphasis on a statement by all five club members.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43347	For business treatment: Mr Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43374	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am aware, on behalf of the BZÖ, that we clearly distance ourselves from this statement and also agree with the view that the High House is showing a reaction and that this must also be discussed in the Presidency. There's no eye twinkling, and there's no other statement. One has to make a clear statement about such statements – and one has to clearly distance oneself from them. Madam President, as you have seen this, I would like you to see it – I know you have looked! – but also ask that Mr Klubobmann’s head be “worthy”, who has made a clear, despicable gesture towards Mr Grosz. This has seen the High House, and this clearly deserves a call for order, which I apply for here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43401	Mr Deputies, you are of course free to express such a wish in accordance with § 103 GOG. However, I am not going to comply with this because I have to give both a call for order, because of course I am also aware of intermediate calls. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because Mr. Grosz said head should talk to the microphone?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Forgive for orders!]] That is why I do not make both calls for orders. [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] In the end, it's my decision, as I'm doing here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (making the wiper movement) That's allowed? This will be allowed in the future? It's a prejudice!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to ask you to take a more careful look at your calls for call and to take into account the dignity of the House as far as the calls for interim work are concerned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now you laugh about it again!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's where we need your superinstructors!]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (making the wiper movement) You probably laugh about it too!]] I understand the appeal made by Mrs Westenthaler, if you do not abandon this, I will give you a call for order. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (making the wiper movement) You still laugh at it when you do, don't you?]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the appeal of Mrs. Club President Dr. Glavischnig, the appeal to the other club chairmen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is an immense presidency!]] Mr Klubobmann's head made a proposal. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler makes the windshield wiper movement.]] Of course, you are free to proceed in this way. Otherwise, of course, I will take up this call and raise the issue in the President-in-Office. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: scandalous Presidency!]] Mr Westenthaler, I give you a call for an order. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank you! That's an order!]] As the first speaker today, Mr Themessl has a speech time of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43635	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of State! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! One does not want to believe that we are in the sharpest economic and financial crisis in the Second Republic, if one looks at or listens to the concerns of the Greens on this Wednesday morning. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the Greens: What?- Oh, my God!]] We know that we are the favourite opponents of the Greens for years. That you have nothing else to do but go down on us, we know that too. [[Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek.]] And that the government parties are still participating in this shabby game, that does not surprise me, because the government parties with such peripheral themes are constantly trying to deceive themselves of the real problems of this country and because they are obviously unable to deal with these problems. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now we have reached the Minister for Economic Affairs Dr. Mitterlehner, the Economic Budget. You know, discussing the business budget chapter here will not give a lot, because if you look at your pure economic budget, you see, this is not even €500 million for 2009 and 2010 respectively. If you know that more than half of it is already bound in fixed costs, then you know that you can hardly counter it. What I lack, however, is certain visions, certain ideas as to how to work on in this economic crisis at all. You know that in times of economic crisis, black work increases dramatically. – This budget does not contain any efforts to combat economic crime. This budget also contains no efforts on the energy market. – You know that the Federal Competition Authority has been talking for years about monopolistic and non-transparent market conditions. There is no effort in terms of efficient and comprehensive thermal renovations – not even of the own buildings belonging to the federal government or the countries. And you don't show any efforts on the credit terminal either. – You know that small and medium-sized enterprises and the economy in general depend on these loans especially in economically difficult times. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am right, Dr. Mitterlehner, if you always refer to your colleagues Pröll – Minister of Finance – and Hundstorfer – Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and say that this falls within the competence of these gentlemen. However, if you are not able to help the economy and to intervene in a coordinated manner in order to provide the necessary answers to businesses, I believe that you as Minister of Economic Affairs are absolutely useless. I will try to explain this to you on the basis of an example. We know for a long time that the economy suffers from the fact that the banks – including those banks that have taken advantage of money in an underestimable amount of money from the state – are not at all prepared to help the economy accordingly. If a company concerned asks a question of trying to enlist members of the government, including individual parties, and to get an answer to the question of how he should behave, whether he should lock his business today, or whether he should wait until the bank locks him up in half a year, then he will not even get the corresponding answers. I would expect you, as Minister of Economic Affairs, if you have already made no provision for this in your budget, not to push responsibility away, but to intervene in coordination and to give the companies the corresponding answers. For weeks I have been bombarded with calls and also with letters from businesses that explain their problems to me and which sometimes also address the problems directly to you. I bring you an example of a Vienna company with 22 employees and 2.2 million euros a year. It has written not only to all parties, but also to you as Minister of Economic Affairs, as well as to Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Finanzminister. Then she receives an answer from the Federal Chancellery, which would actually be “not enough” in every school essay, because she clearly misses the subject. This budget does not answer the burning questions about how the company is to behave, which is now in the precarious situation, that simply the account core credit framework has been shortened – not even retained! – although the economic situation of the company can be described as very good. This company presented itself to a total of seven banks and tried to find a second bank that could survive or at least guarantee its survival. There are banks that have, of course, very benevolently and gladly taken advantage of the state's bank assistance package – the Raiffeisenbank, the First Bank, the UniCredit Bank Austria and, and, etc. Finally, for example, the company received a reply from an employee of UniCredit Bank Austria, who washed himself. UniCredit Bank Austria definitely says that the banks do not produce money for small and medium-sized enterprises if the client is predominantly the public hand because it is considered as a poor payer and therefore too high a risk. – Do you know what that means? In this House, we unanimously decide on a bank rescue package of €100 billion, require that banks use this money to support small and medium-sized enterprises in economic times so difficult, to continue helping them – and then, after they have used money, these banks call the public hand as extremely bad payers, as not worthy of credit – I can then give you the appropriate quotations! And then the Federal Chancellor's Office gives the person concerned a two-and-a-half-page, extremely lapidary answer to his question, which says nothing at all, but is pointed out what the government is doing. Then it's said – I'm allowed to quote –: At the same time, however, it should not be mentioned that despite the state support package, there are signs of restrictive allocation and adverse and sometimes unacceptable conditions for loans. - Quote. And you're not doing anything?- Oh, my God! . I ask you how you imagine it, now that we are in the middle of this economic crisis, where there is no month and no week, without new hearing figures showing up the unemployed. And you're not able to intervene there in coordination! With a budget of €500 million, you as Minister of Economic Affairs are absolutely unnecessary – this job could be saved! . because, at any request and at any opportunity, you would point out that you are referring to Mr Finanzminister or to your colleague Hundstorfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43705	Next, Mr Steindl. Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43726	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! A nice morning, ladies and gentlemen here in the high house! Mr. Themessl, if some 300 000 entrepreneurs are active in Austria, you cannot assume that the Minister of State can take care of the liquidity of each individual company! They always bring individual cases here. Of course, there are companies that are in a correspondingly tense situation at this time, but the government in Austria has made excellent provision. With the economic packages I and II, with a tax reform with a total relief of approximately €3.2 billion, purchasing power will grow accordingly, and this will certainly make us better emerge from this difficult time, as European comparisons also show. See where we stand, for example, in unemployment statistics! Where do we stand with purchasing power, where do we stand in terms of employment, where do we stand in terms of growth? We are always at the front – you draw a picture here that has nothing to do with the real facts and data of the Austrian economy! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] Of course, this budget with €500 million is not very extensive, but we never had in this area again. There are several institutions located in the economic sector, such as the Federal Competition Authority, the general administration itself, the Eichamt and so on, with a total of 2,700 employees. We will also be able to keep the employment status roughly, and we have temporarily provided for it in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Economics. An important further step has been taken with the I and II economic packages and with the Internationalisation Plan in order to continue the necessary exports for our country successfully. In addition, the Minister of Economic Affairs has put important emphasis on, for example, what the thermal reorganisation is about to do, where we will trigger investments of between €600 million and € 700 million in Austria. We have important emphasis on eco-premie, and we support car trade and automotive sectors accordingly. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] On the one hand, these measures clearly show that we are very careful to deal with taxpayers because we have only limited resources and opportunities; we cannot be expansive here. If we now have some 20 percent more budget available temporarily for 2009, 2010 in this area, this is not, in my view, so little and safe enough to put in place the appropriate measures. In my view, it would also be important, in addition to strengthening the measures and possibilities offered by the economy, a combined economy, an electricity industry, but especially here in this House there are people who are standing on the brake. I am thinking in this context, for example, of the Eco electricity Act, which would trigger sustainable investments of far more than €600, 700 million. It is not very effective if, for example, you are on the Europeans from their own ranks, from Austria oppose such measures and thus cross-check these measures, which should be implemented so urgently. In addition, we have to say that there are a number of possibilities that are also broken because we are simply going too rigid there and there, because there are too strict legal measures, especially as regards environmental impact assessments. Here we have to see that we are moving on. We have a number of measures in the cable car industry, the electricity industry, the pipeline industry and so on, where we could release ad hoc and immediately hundreds of million euros for investment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us work on this, Mr Themessl. It would have failed to use the resources that we have built up in Austria in an excellent economic situation in recent years in order to get out of the crisis well: I am convinced that the measures taken by our government, the finance ministers, the economic ministers, will be the best way to deal with this crisis. There will certainly be difficulties in the next few days, but overall we are much better placed than many other European countries. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43812	Next, Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43833	Madam President. High house! I have to focus very briefly on the incident from now on. If someone in the House shows the “wisper, ” from my point of view this is an insult, an insult that could be just as verbally pronounced. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In other words, if there is a derailment here, from my point of view it is your job, Madam President, to be aware of it accordingly, with a call for order. They are always talking about the dignity of the house, and I believe that the viewers do not understand that such derailments are happening in this House. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then: What would the increase be? – The increase would probably be the “sink-finger” or other, and I’ll see you in the newspapers, in the media. I do not think that this is acceptable to this House. As regards Mr Grosz: Mr Grosz said that head should speak in the microphone – this is also stated in the Minutes: He's supposed to talk to the microphone – and he meant the other microphone. [[Abg. Amon: Yes, yes, yes!]] Whether that is so bad, what Mr Grosz has said, I do not want to judge that. I can only tell you one thing: If Mr Grosz says something that is not appropriate in this House, then you must be aware of it, because ultimately it is about the same right for all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But it is a socialist president!]] I do not think that it is appropriate at all for Mr Westenthal, if he criticises this, to give a call for order from my point of view. Madam President, as you rightly say, you can hold the Presidency as you wish. As a parliamentarian, who is still relatively young in this House, when I first came in here, I felt a lot of dignity. In recent times, with these verbal derailments, which are also not suspected as should be the case, the dignity has suffered a little. That is why I ask you to proceed more rigorously here: in the sense of everyone, even in the sense of the spectators who really expect more dignity from this House, rightly expect. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Also from the President!]] Now I would like to come to the issue of economics, because this is what we are talking about today. We currently have the largest global economic crisis for 80 years. We have to complain of 500 000 unemployed or even more at the end of the year, and exports have fallen by 25 percent in the first quarter alone. Many sectors of the economy are struggling with a drop in orders of over 50 percent. This data, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, has not been known since yesterday. And what are you doing about it? – There is now a fight against the crisis. As part of this campaign, Minister of Economic Affairs, the budget was increased by €90 million from 2008 to 2009. 90 million – Fight against the crisis! That's a little more than 1 prom of the budget. So this is your "champfansage", Mr. Minister: You want to meet with a little more than 1 prom of the budget of the crisis! Mr Mitterlehner, I have to address you here again. I met you for the first time about 15 years ago at a young business congress in Bregenz. I thought back then, and many other young entrepreneurs also thought that you are a hope-holder, a hope-holder from the Chamber of Commerce, who finally hires where there is a man's need and who knows where the economy of the shoe is pressing. This has been a long time ago, Minister of Economic Affairs, and unfortunately it has not been too much left of this enthusiasm. That is why I can only ask you, Minister of Economic Affairs: Seek again this enthusiasm, this fire that you sprung at the time, which all of us were so excited at at the time, You're back in your heart and you're going on things offensively! And above all: With a promille as a battle ground, we will certainly not find the way out! They always say that we should make concrete proposals, Minister of Economic Affairs. We have put a credit model at your heart in the Committee, as we could move €3 billion with the €100 million you spend on thermal renovation. At the time, you said no, this credit model, these 3 billion, we do not need to, because the economy has enough work anyway. I looked at this more precisely and found that 95 percent of the construction industry had too few jobs; I was also confirmed by the building innung. Of course, a few ÖVP companies may very well have enough orders due to the award which you can support accordingly, but in total, Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs, there are too few contracts under construction. [[Call the ÖVP:Frequent!]] That's why: Make your homework, give money free for the thermal renovation! We can thus also support the economy accordingly. As far as homework and administrative reform are concerned: These matters concern They are not directly, but here we could open up additional resources to cover the construction industry. That's what we have to do. The union must finally understand that we are sitting in a boat in this country. That is to say, to order a farm that is bad, how it can get out of the crisis, and then, as it were, to starve this employer and ultimately destroy all jobs, that is not the task of a union. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The trade union should take a step back and allow businesses to develop solutions with their employees so that we can cope with this crisis together. My appeal to you, Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner: This crisis is not just going to pass by, but we have to get together, we have to find joint constructive solutions, and then we will get out of this crisis together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e43954	Mr Lugar, on your speech. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now comes the next call for order, because he said something you may not have liked!]] Mr Lugar, I share your opinion and view that we all have to do everything we can to focus on the dignity of the House every minute that we are here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The President too! She's laughing at orders!]] However, I think it is also unbearable – and here, of course, the President has intervened – when individual Members in Permanence try to make a mockery of the House, the Members of Parliament, and this, Mr Westenthal, applies to you too! [[Congratulation with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you can show the “wipeer”, right?]] That's true for you, too! That is why I can only appeal to you all, but not constantly to miss the seriousness in this House. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can show the “wipeer”, right? – You are laughing at the calls for order, Madam President!]] Mr Westenthaler, you can still provoke for hours – we will not be provoked by you here in this House! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] The next item is Mr Matznetter. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e44061	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! The constant attempts of Mr Westenthaler, while addressing important economic issues here, to disrupt the discussion by means of permanent calls, are essential, I would say. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Another order call!]] Let's get to the point. You can report later on, then you can do everything here. Let us take a look at the crucial issue: Does what the Federal Government does or does not do? – I say to you: We have done the right thing very, very quickly! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why aren't you more State Secretary?]] I remind you: We already made the necessary adjustments in October to protect Austrian savings deposits. We have already decided in November, when other governments considered what they are doing in the light of the crisis, the first economic package, where with a volume of € 1 billion, we have signed a package for the very small to large enterprises, where hundreds of micro-enterprises who have never received funds from the AWS can already get their volume of funding with only 2% interest-rate loans. We have acted quickly and correctly. We tied the third package in January. And if today it has been criticized that in the budget item in the chapter there is only half a billion: Yes, the main parts of the measures are in many chapters! I remind you: Nearly 1 billion preferential investments in infrastructure, more than half a billion early amortizations available this year and next year for the companies, € 100 million for thermal renovation, where we are now assuming that by the end of June we will have triggered an investment volume of € 600 to 700 million. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's what you're wearing!]] Even the scrapping premium, which I have also seen a little critically, has helped because the automotive factories are running in Europe and therefore our suppliers are being employed. As a fire brigade we have led the right amount of extinguishers, the right amount of waste water used, and this part works. [[Abg. Scheibner: You're a good fire brigade!]] That is why we have fewer problems and less shrinking than the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Class fight with the “Reichen tax”!]] This federal government is among the best in terms of economic packages in a comparison of the European states. In this sense, this budget is an essential contribution to what a properly operating government can do in the largest global economic crisis for 80 years, and I think we will reap the fruits of this policy in the form that we avoid 200 000 or 300 000 unemployed. And that's the best help we can give to people. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e44166	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e44187	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The question is, Mr Matznetter: Did the vehicles actually arrive? And is the extent of all of this really correct? If you look at the surveys of the companies, you can see other signals. Two weeks ago, a survey of 1,800 companies was published by the credit reform, by director Rödl. What is the diagnosis, what is the result? – They suffer from job losses – that’s nothing new – there are falling revenues, falling profits, and 40 percent of them are planning to reduce personnel. And the expectations for the future in general are not really optimistic. And then comes the central question, which was still asked in the survey: Are the economic stabilisation measures sufficient? And do you know, Minister, what was the clear answer here? – More than 55 percent have said they are not sufficient. Just 19 percent were satisfied with this. The central question, of course, is: What do companies really need in this time of crisis? Now a shield has been stretched up for the banks, for the medium-sized companies, but what about the one-person companies, with the micro-, with the Smallest company? And if you address the ERP Small Credit Action: Mr Minister, you know exactly how close to 3 million have been granted to some 200 companies. It's a bad result! The question, of course, arises: How do we help the 320 000 Austrian businesses, which have a maximum of nine employees, but which ensure 650 000 jobs and are thus really a backbone and a stabilisation element of our economy? It needs – I am convinced – an unbureaucratic measure that can be implemented quickly and efficiently and cost-effectively. That is why I now put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] This, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is an immediate package which we can decide here and which will be effective immediately. This is exactly what is needed – and not a priority: Don't go, it's too expensive! Consider it well, this is a concrete aid package, which in fact can help these 320 000 companies well and secure 650 000 jobs. The next area is something that is always quite good for beautiful weather policy in the economy. You know that inflation was very high in autumn. Everyone has said that the Federal Competition Authority needs to be strengthened. Now, of course, the question is: Does that make sense in the budget? - No, that's not the case. The Federal Competition Authority, which does excellent work in the interests of consumers, which also produces safe framework conditions for businesses, is equipped with 33 employees. De facto there are no additional resources, no extension of personnel. Mr Federal Minister, it would have been a long time to send the budget the right signal for this very important authority in a functioning market economy. If you look at this very central area of the energy industry, Mr President, then you have to admit that it is very thin – it has already been addressed today – especially if you look at the development. We do not now have particularly high oil prices – but what do the experts say in an article published in the weekly magazine “Die Zeit” in recent weeks? – They predict exploding oil prices in the time when it can rise. Mr Minister, this is quite clear, exploding oil prices, that is to say, nothing other than that a recovery of the economy is curtailed. This is also said by the Inter- National Energy Agency, known for its knowledge of facts and renowned agency in the field of energy management. It clearly predicts that the next megacrisis will go hand in hand with it in the world economy. The IEA's clear mandate and clear demand is to rely on energy efficiency and renewable energies. Finally, it is the demand for a “clean energy new deal”. It is about setting the accents exactly, and, Minister, we are missing it. The resources for thermal rehabilitation are also too little. In July 2008, a district heating and cooling network expansion law was adopted, where it has been agreed that €60 million per year should flow in this area. And how much are they 2009? – Sleep € 10 million! And there's nothing planned for 2010. If you look at the global market as a whole, you can see that a huge volume of investment is on the move, where it is now appropriate to implement precisely these opportunities for the Austrian eco-energy companies. Mr Minister, you presented an internationalization offensive on Monday, but you did not find any clear words about which industries to do so. We believe that it is necessary to put it exactly in this area now. Therefore, the clear demand to focus on the internationalisation offensive in the field of eco-energy and, most urgently, to strengthen the home market. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The figures in this context are embarrassing: In 2008, there was a photovoltaic expansion of close 2.9 megawatts in Austria – 2.9 megawatts! Now guess how much that was in the Czech Republic? In the Czech Republic, there were 51 MW and in Spain 2600 MW of newly installed power. You know, we have great ventures in this area throughout Austria, and this is what we need to support now. Therefore, the clear call for an eco-energy cluster, such as we have in Upper Austria for example, to be introduced at the federal level and to ensure the necessary means. Overall, there is a clear diagnosis on the many points I have raised today and to see in relation to the budget: Neither the dimension nor the measures nor the priorities are sufficient in this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e44309	The motion for a resolution, drawn up by Mrs Lichtenecker, has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e44397	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e44418	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we have one of the most difficult crises in the economic sector in recent decades, if not even the most difficult, and I believe it has been said in general that this crisis is a global economic crisis, which, of course, is particularly dramatic for Austria, because we have an international network of 60 percent of our economy. So de facto 38 percent of our products and 12 percent of our services go to export and have contributed significantly to our prosperity in recent years and decades. That is why it is quite clear that many Austrians have already gained that there cannot be anyone to blame for this, but that an international crisis has international causes, but can only be combated internationally. Therefore, it is an illusion to want to adopt here and today, in the Austrian Federal budget, some measures are decided to quickly implement – and Austria would then be a kind of “island of the Blessed” that is no longer affected by the economic problems from the time of implementation. However, I have just been able to hear what the first two opposition politicians are about to say in the presentation. I would They therefore request that the differences be evaluated accordingly in this relation. That is why the question arises, and this is, of course, very important for us: What can Austria do in its framework to combat the economic crisis accordingly? I think that there is in all of us the realization that we as a small country cannot raise demand, which is why I consider it right in this context that we go the way to maintain the structures through short work. Short work is nothing but bridging aid if order receipts are not sufficiently available to counter them accordingly. The counter-control needs to look so that it is not exactly the same with a little less work that is produced, but that it is restructured to address new markets, new products are being developed. In the final effect, we only have a very short time to restructure accordingly. That is why – I am still returning to the various funding measures – internationalisation support is so important. On the other hand, it is of course also important to observe the domestic market accordingly. This is the second part of our activities, the domestic market. We have behaved properly, as the EU has proposed, as is the case with investment offensives. The EU has proposed that each country should decide about 1.5 percent of its GDP for economic promotion. We have decided a total of 2.3 percent. It cannot be wrong to prefer investment in public buildings, in roads that we should have done anyway. The whole thing is, of course, a matter of financing. But here too we are at the point: They demand much more – and criticise the deficit on the other hand. Either this or the other can't be right. However, the right balance is certainly the one that the Federal Government has found, which has gone the right way here and has set the right impulse. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This raises a question which is also very important: Of course, we have liquidity bottlenecks, and the Federal Government has undertaken to combat these liquidity bottlenecks accordingly, with the medium-sized package. One thing is also clear in this context: The solution of all these questions can only come from the state, by setting the right conditions – but the answer to the crisis must come from the individual company, it must come from the market. The State cannot now make or replace business decisions. This should be seen by all these gentlemen, who have managed this before, to see that it is not right if decisions have not been eligible to say now: What about the medium-sized package? There is now no support for it again, so the whole package is misguided! – So you should get one to the right connection with the other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we have set a third impulse, and that is a demand impulse. We have 40 percent, as you have heard, domestic market. What are we doing in this area? – Strengthen demand with the tax reform. The tax reform was correct from the point of view and from time to time. Germany is only discussing this – we have already implemented it! We have thus put in place exactly the right measures to stimulate trade in order to revive tourism. Therefore, the right measure at the right time. As you have addressed the thermal renovation: Not only should you see the €100 million we have planned for measures under this support package, but you should also see that we are spending €180 million on thermal rehabilitation within the framework of the BIG. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But when?]] All these decisive things are not now these 280 million €, but the decisive thing is the Awareness aspect. They achieve far more citizens than those who apply for support. This will move significantly more sustainablely than with these support measures. And that is the crucial point of giving the appropriate impetus in the crisis. We therefore clearly exceed the EU's requirements by means of our actions and have therefore made the right policy. You can also notice this when you compare the numbers. Our labour market numbers are relatively better – of course, every unemployed person is one too much, quite clear – and relatively better in the annual average as far as the forecasts are concerned. We are expected to have 6 percent in 2009, the EU-27 9.4 percent. Even in the area of growth, although Germany has a similar internationalization link as we do, we will cut off better than Germany, because our small and medium-sized enterprises react more flexibly. That is to say, in exceptional times with extraordinary measures, we have of course also taken a temporarily higher budget deficit. And it also always asks the question: Is it right to risk this deficit to the extent? Shouldn't there be an alternative here?– I don't think there is. We have done everything we can to stabilise and force expenditure on the domestic market. And on the revenue side, general economic development will show how high the budget deficit is actually. But the situation is alternativesless, there is no other way. You can't do something else if you have a little more or a little less growth on the expenditure side, where you also have expenditure stabilizers, such as in the labour market. Therefore, the measures were overall correct and without an alternative. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What is going on in our own budget is divided into three areas. The economic sector, sub-group 40, concerns the area of economic promotion, the AWS, the ÖHT, the “Austria advertising”, the standardisation institute, the headquarters team and so on. We have an increase in the budget estimate from €380 to €494 million in 2009 and €481 billion in 2010. In the field of research there is an increase of €59.2 million in 2008 to € 79.8 million in 2009 and € 104.6 million in 2010. In the area of family and youth, of course due to the family support measures, we have an increase of € 6 024 million in 2008 to € 6 257 million in 2009 and € 6 644.8 million in 2010. Therefore, the entire Federal estimate of our ministry – Mr Themessl, please understand the figures accordingly, otherwise they will always be wrong – for 2009 €6.83 billion and for 2010 €7.23 billion. If you compare this with the previous year – quite the comparison is not allowed because the area of work was still with us at the time – you can see that in 2008 we had a budget of €4.67 billion for the field of work. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to come to the individual areas and clarify them, especially because they have been referred to several times by previous speakers. First point: We are trying to get the financing gap in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises, but also in the large industry. I think we can offer a better system here, a better framework than all other countries, as you can see when you compare this overall. We've been in AWS since 20. May also be liable for bridging credit. So this is precisely what the liquidity questions that Mr Themessl has raised here, for example, must be said to him and also to the rulers who write to Mr Strache and others: Mr Strache is not the Federal Chancellor, nor am I Mr Strache. Therefore: If he does something, he should turn to the right places. But in that case, if he would write to me, I'm not the right place either. It does not help if you write to Mr Strache in this context: I have addressed seven banks, and they have not financed me! Where is the AWS SME package? – This would require you to write there first of all, second of all, to make a specific request there – and then you may be able to talk about whether the support measures are correct or wrong. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: The offer is the one and the second side. Mrs Lichtenecker, you have just quoted the credit reform survey incompletely, because in fact 55 percent of the companies surveyed say: We are not satisfied with the measures taken by the Federal Government – No na! If the crisis is not over, no one can be satisfied because the crisis is still there. But the additional question was: How many measures have you actually taken? – 90 percent have not taken advantage of anything, have not applied for it. Therefore, it is necessary to take 10 per cent of the measures taken, and then we can only say whether they are good, bad or medium-sized. I agree, however, that the AWS was more focused on sunshine activities. Now also facing the crisis, we change, we act faster, we act better in terms of communication. That is why, I believe, the right measures are being taken at the right time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Themessl, I must say one thing: I have now patiently listened to you three or four times, up here, in committee meetings and elsewhere. They repeat in a division that I do not want to go closer to now, things that are quite, I would say, strange from the sound. But I believe that even of the matter you have the impression that you somehow have the monopoly of criticism, the license to criticism, and only you alone sit somewhere at a source of creativity that is infinitely full to let out the right measures to combat the crisis. I have to tell you – I would have saved you, but: I have invited you to a meeting of all the economic leaders of the political groups. This meeting took place at the Ministry of Economic Affairs in March. There everyone from his area then brought his proposals. There were very interesting proposals. But do you know what Mr Themessl has put forward as a proposal and as a complaint where you have to make it? – The fact that tachograph controls, when it comes to the times, are to be used by long-distance drivers to make the appropriate breaks, should be handled with a little “more tolerance”. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is “economic recovery”!]] I must tell you, Mr Themessl Your economic policy proposals will not cure the world economy! [[Abg. Themessl: You didn't listen!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This also leads to a second area. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: This is polemics,...!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, before you put the word ‘polemik’ into the mouth, read the text of Mr Themessl’s speech and his previous speeches, and then we will continue to speak! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to removing the financial gap, it is of course also necessary to focus on what was the second growth factor in our country, namely export orientation. It is only a few days ago that we were allowed to present the new support package in this context, which, in my opinion, also deals with the right points. Firstly, the funding framework will be increased accordingly, to € 25 million. In addition, the exhibition in Shanghai is not financed in this context, but with extraordinary resources – especially in times like this one, a very important point of approach. As far as the measures are concerned, we will put the following new emphasis on: First of all, we want to achieve less dependence on Germany, namely by winning new ones to the 36 000 exporters we now have, but above all new markets in the Middle East, in the African area, in the area of South America, for these exporters. All our travel abroad has been demonstrated, there is a need for it, there is also funding, and we want to use it. With other products as well: We are more involved in the areas of services and creativity. There are also new possibilities. We will also, as the tenders are made here, seek to do more not to act individually but in working communities, and therefore also to give medium-sized enterprises more opportunities in this area. Third: tourism, which I may mention here too. Why is this important? – Because especially in times like this, where the crisis also affects this area, we have a smaller radius of travel. People stay stronger in Austria and the surrounding area. This is why we are also making a corresponding advertising campaign in the context of “Austrian Advertising”. This is aimed at markets in Germany, Italy, as well as in other neighbouring countries. I think that this is also the right measure at this time. However, it is not the right measure if you now, in this context, namely the increase in funding, what the framework is about to do, simply put these possibilities together and say: For the eco-premium, the state pays €22.5 million – and for the “Austrian advertising” only €4 million! That's the wrong approach! They should compare with the enlargements in the field of tax reform, because: If you put 3 billion € in motion there, do something for families, then they will make vacations in Austria and shop in Austria. – There is the right starting point for comparisons! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can also tell you that it is incorrect that the support packages do not work until now. You only spoke of a few hundred. We have increased by 10 percent in the area of AWS, but also in the field of ÖHT – at this time, now in May, compared to the previous year – which means nothing more than that we have more applications for funding in the crisis, but also more details. You see, therefore, that is not only an offer that is presented, but also an offer that is being used. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Kuzdas.]] The family-friendly measures will then give Christine Marek, the competent State Secretary, her presentation, because they are also very important. That is why we also have the €70 million in the context of the economic package, which is the reason why the kindergarten year is due, because of course this will also be effective immediately on the expenditure side. In times like this, a proper and decisive measure! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I also come to the R&D area, but only in two sentences. We now – with the aim of being stronger after the crisis – have the need to do so. It would be wrong to take only a few reactive measures now, but after the crisis we should be stronger, and therefore: In the field of research and development not only a reduction, but an extension! We are particularly committed to cooperation between science and small and medium-sized enterprises. I should like to mention the Christian Doppler labs, but also the innovation check that we provide for SMEs and that we enjoy great popularity and demand, as well as the COIN, Cooperation & Innovation programme, which we implement in the field of our ministry. This should only draw your attention to the fact that the economic packages in the field of research and development are quite effective. We also have basic FFG programs. For example, it is a question of being too expensive to link up appropriate research programmes for the battery operation of cars that are still too difficult to reach. [[Bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] We do this through basic programs in the field of the FFG. Therefore: There too, the right approach that will help our economy in the medium term! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In summary, ladies and gentlemen: We put in contrast to what you demand – so much money will be You can't even exaggerate that you stimulate demand in Europe – with the opportunities we have, with regard to the young federal citizens who also have to repay debts, in times like these the right measures to be taken: fighting the crisis, helping powerfully, but also budgeting in a large way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e44624	Mr Themessl spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the rules; 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e44648	Madam President. Federal Minister! In the course of this debate, Mr Mitterlehner, Minister of State, has claimed that I would have had nothing else to suggest than not to check the truck drivers' tachographs so strongly. [[Call the ÖVP: It hurts you!]] [[New call at the ÖVP: That hurts you!]] This is incorrect because it has been torn out of a polemic context where it has been a matter of identifying the problems of the fishermen who are the first to be affected by an economic crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is not an actual correction!]] It is true that I said that 80 percent of all Austrian communities are in dire need of follow-up in the kindergarten and school sector to rehabilitate there. It would be important to make money available there, because it could help the regional economy immediately and sustainably and because the investment in our future would be. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is a small speech!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e44733	Mrs Steibl has now come to speak with a desired speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e44762	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now in the chapter Economics, Family and Youth – a network, a line that is very good, because: Family without a business is not feasible, but the economy without family, without men and women, without excellent workers would not work either. So this signal is an upgrade, also an upgrade for families! [[Abg. Singer:... Families worth more than a State Secretariat!]] Federal Minister Mitterlehner has said – we know – that in times like this, the budget is scarce everywhere, or it must be scarce to provide for children not to have to hang a debt backpack for the future. It is all the more important and crucial in such difficult times that families are strengthened that they are under the arms in different areas. This double budget contains many measures to support families in Austria. I would like to talk about this – because I have already said: do good and talk about it! – again call the tax reform, as do the 13th. Family aid, which is really such an important measure for our families, particularly in the middle class or where families do not have a large household income, or for single parents. In 2009, additional € 254 million will be used for this purpose for our families. However, I would also like to stress some other measures, such as the tax deductibility of child care costs, which is now being implemented. This is not about the discussion: five hours of training or eight hours of training? There are so many excellently trained and well-functioning family mothers and fathers who know how to raise their children, or grandparents or young people who attend a childcare school, and so on. Another important contribution, which is now coming – and I would like to say thank you for being able to do so within the government – is the free kindergarten year, a measure that is necessary and correct, and is also mandatory in the right way. In this context, I would also like to make a personal comment: The discussion about the care of children under three years of age outside the home must be carried out much more sensitively and intensively. It was only at a meeting that it was once again stressed how important this issue is, how important it is to know: When and where can I give my grandchild out of the house? When is it necessary? Where are there good facilities? What is educational training in this area? It would be too easy to hold the discussion here – I listened very attentively to the discussions yesterday – as if it were about the question: Are we creating a mother's content, yes or no? – There are other possibilities and ways to give mothers and fathers a secure future across Europe, towards retirement and work. Because work also makes joy. But also the question: What is it about the child's well-being?, I think, is an important approach, in addition to all the benefits we provide in the family sector. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to mention what is prepared by Mrs State Secretary Christine Marek – and I say thank you for her work here – in cooperation with the government partner, namely the income-dependent childcare allowance. I think that is also a way of meeting well-trained young women and fathers, because we also want to strengthen father participation! But Father participation is also a personal matter, because it is not about the question: Who deserves more in the family?, but for the question: Who also wants to build a good relationship with the child, to the family? I think these are very positive steps, and I would like to say a few words that are important to me personally. There are also crisis situations in the family. And I think we should also look more open and more often at the family advisory facilities and see what good and so important work is being done there. Or also towards the social workers. In this area too, we must support the employees and must not “let them stand in the rain”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: We should, I think, also tell our young mothers and fathers that parents are also learningable and that parental education as well as partnering is positive because it helps us to shape life, including the lives of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e44838	Mr Zanger. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e44860	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Exceptional times require exceptional measures. – That was a statement I heard from the Federal Minister. And I would like to tell you briefly about such an extraordinary measure, which is also extremely worrying. There is a tradition-rich business in Upper Austria – 100 years, 45 employees and everything in the best way regulated. So did that day when, due to the current events and the crisis, the entrepreneur realized that it would no longer go on, and brought together his employees and discussed the subject of short work with them. Tags later, suddenly a trade unionist stood in the company's office and said: What, you want to arrange short work? But you don't even have a works council! And if you don't install a works council, you won't get any promotions from the AMS for short work! [[Abg. New builder: Unmistakable!]] Ladies and gentlemen, an exceptionally worrying measure by the trade union, which uses short work as a pledge for self-interest in economically harsh times towards a diligent and decent entrepreneur. [[Abg. Shopf: Name of the farm? Name of the holding?]] [[Abg. Riepl: Tell the name of the farm, and don't tell fairy tales!]] It's just unbearable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Why don't you say the name of the company? Then you can go after that!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: In order not to harm the operation any more!]] However, the lack of government strategies, ladies and gentlemen, is also recognised by the fact that a survey of credit reform... – Mein [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, don't stir up like this! [[Abg. Riepl: Don't tell fairy tales!]] These are truths! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You can say the name!]] Discuss this in your own ranks, but do not disturb the debate! [[Abg. Riepl: A real fairy tale book! – A crime is better, please!]] A survey of credit reform shows alarming results. The assessment of small and medium-sized enterprises on the business situation has broken down dramatically. Only one third of the respondents speak of a very good to good business situation. With more than half of the businesses, sales have fallen in the past half year, almost 50 percent of expected revenue. This also has a dramatic impact on job security. Around 40 percent of the respondents have reduced their staff status in the past half-year, each third small and medium-sized company planning concrete redundancies. And 30 percent have indicated that they have not yet released any employees, but they fear that they will have to do so in the next few months. This is the difference between a named small or medium-sized company and a group: An entrepreneur who has built a farm himself and works for it will do all he can to keep his employees in employment for as long as possible, even if he himself therefore has to give up some of his income. The implementation of the planned economic packages remains to be desired, not only we say, but also the Steiermark Chamber of Commerce. And further demands from us have also been taken over by the WKO Styria, such as the relaxation of the Basel II criteria, the easier access to loans. We gave the banks a lot of money in our hands, but there was nothing coming from the companies. I would also like to draw your attention to the following: They repeatedly call for the opposition to be brought into work with concrete projects, concrete examples. I am very happy and very proud that I am able to tell you that it will succeed or succeed in deciding on a common multi-party request based on a free initiative during this week, namely to install a competence centre for aviation technology in a region that is very much taken away from the crisis, because it has already weakened in the Aichfeld-Murboden region. For weeks and months, we have had a cross-party approach – I would like to stress this and thank you for the fact that the colleagues, in particular SPÖ and ÖVP, have come along and said: Yeah, that makes sense, that's where we sit together with you! – something was done in meetings and discussions, which was unanimously decided yesterday in the Styrian Landtag, namely this request, which I would like to make briefly, without bringing it in – this will be done during the course of this week. It is about this aircraft competence centre with the following contents: Certification offensive for subcontractors, establishment of a development company, expansion of further training in schools – HTL aviation technicians, for example –, cooperation with the aircraft yard tentway, expansion of new courses and courses of study. - A sensible project! The Federal Minister said that after the crisis we should be stronger, so we invest in research and development. And I am convinced that during this week we will be able to complete this request and thus give hope to many, many people in a very, very crisis-affected region, but also for our youth there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45001	Next speaker: Mr Katzian, with a speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45023	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! I think it has already been said a lot about the framework conditions under which this budget has been drawn up. In his brief opinion, the Federal Minister also pointed out that it was a matter of setting up a framework for the creation of appropriate opportunities. I believe that we have taken important and correct steps here, in particular with regard to the economic packages and the tax reform. But it's clear: It is necessary to review all the steps that have been taken to evaluate accordingly, to verify whether the corresponding objectives we have set ourselves are achieved, and, if necessary, to follow further steps in autumn or at a later date. I also believe that we can learn from the measures taken, for example from the question of thermal building renovation, which has already been addressed today. I believe that this is a real step because it contributes both to the increase in energy efficiency and to economic recovery. These are the examples that we also need for future action. Mr Federal Minister, in the energy sector, we will have to become active in some fields. I would like to address the Ecostrom Act, which is currently in Brussels – and it has been this for a long time – and we are not really going on in this regard. I think we all agree that renewable energy sources have a future and deserve our focus. That is why we need additional initiatives from the Federal Government so that we can implement our eco electricity law in Brussels. We also need this because it is about using renewable energy sources efficiently, in particular wind energy, and that is only when there are well-developed networks. That is why I would also like to make a plea for the further expansion of the lines and the transmission networks. We need these; especially if we want to drive wind energy and other alternative forms of energy, we also need the appropriate improvement of security of supply, and for this, networks and the expansion of the lines are extremely important and absolutely necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will also have a number of discussions related to the Third EU Internal Market Package. I think some things come to us. The discussions in Brussels have not yet been completed, but what we already hear in this way certainly makes it necessary for us to talk intensively about some questions; in particular, we will need to discuss in detail the future role of the regulator. I personally already believe that energy policy should be primarily responsible for the institutions chosen and democratically legitimated by the people, and not a regulatory authority that is largely deprived of control. We need more clarity and clearer rules for the future, and I would like to open this discussion. One final comment to Mr Lugar on the role of trade unions. He said they should take them back. – What is represented for a spirit of mind is what we have heard in the last speeches, because it is obviously about the interests of the farmers and other companies that are put before the interests of the workers. I'd like to tell you: We from the SPÖ have a very clear position, which is also easy to understand. Social partnership is something that works not only in beautiful weather times, but also in times of crisis. And it is composed as follows: on the one hand, from a common analysis, from an assessment of the situation, from the representation of interests of the respective stakeholders, and from the search for a common solution. We do the search for a common solution at the negotiating table, which we do twice and three times at the negotiating table. But if it is necessary and if the discussions at the negotiating table do not produce the desired results, then in a democracy and in a free country it is equally permitted for workers to represent their interests by means of the possibilities of coalition law, freedom of assembly and by appropriate demonstrations, if necessary. We do not let anyone forbid this, that is our understanding of the representation of workers' interests. And if we are the Even if we do not have a role to play in connection with the social partners, if we want to talk about it, then I can only guess, Mr Lugar: Explorers Once you're with those who're in there, so to speak, inside, in between! We are happy to answer all your questions, and then you do not have to make such speeches here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45089	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking at 4 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45110	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! To the budget chapter Economy: If the Federal Minister says that this financial and economic crisis is an international crisis, I must agree with him, but there is a problem in Austria that we have falling order numbers, falling turnovers, rising unemployment, and the conditions, Mr. Federal Minister – I am the same opinion as you – politics is responsible. But today we have figures on economic growth, inflation, and we have statements from economic researchers that are almost equivalent to a coffee study. The bank package has been addressed. All five parties in this House were in favour of tying this bank package, making money for the economy liquid and making it available to the banks. But what did it bring? I am now with Mr Katzian, who has said that goals have been set, but one must also evaluate. In this case, it is the same. What have the banks done with this bank package? – They have stopped their own holes, strengthened their equity, so that they have a better credit quality, but they have not passed on the money to the economy. That is a fact, Minister of State! That's where you have to counter it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You need to restructure and counter-control, find the right balance. - Okay, but so far, I miss every battle response to this crisis. We only need to look at the situation in the semi-governmental sector in Austria. At the AUA, nobody knows where the trip is going, that's a flight into the unknown. At the Austrian Federal Railways you have 900 million € Deficit written in 2008, but credits of €4 million are to be paid to the managers there. In my opinion, the ÖIAG chief Michaelis is the most expensive, also according to the newspaper “Austria”. He doesn't do anything in this area at all – nor anything! – except that credits are paid for managers who write losses. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And Faul!]] Profits are, as it were, privatized, and losses are nationalized. This is not only the case with the ÖBB and the AUA, but also with the ASFINAG, the Telekom and also with the Post. [[Abg. Hornek:... Mr Trattner!]] People will be outsourced there, so to speak, and I will not get the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that a number of companies – not the small ones but the larger ones, especially in the semi-governmental sector – are using the financial and economic crisis to easily separate themselves from their employees in the wind shadow of this financial and economic crisis. It really cannot be, because the most important thing is that we have low unemployment, a high number of jobs, so that purchasing power is strengthened. Economic captains, who only cancel the employees, but even give themselves credit and then persuade the people to abandon their wages, just can't do that! This weakens purchasing power, and thus we weaken the economy in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Federal Minister, now a word on tax reform. I must say that this federal government is discussing how to make a tax reform. We discuss wealth tax, wealth tax, wealth tax, foundations where SPÖ has already surpassed itself because it has seen that it has parked its party finances in foundations. That's just not how it is! This red and black coalition is unable to implement and implement something meaningful against this crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45181	Mrs Fuhrmann is now speaking with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45203	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! This budget chapter is not only about the economy and the family, but also about the youth. In Austria, we have numerous youth organisations, whether party-political or interconnected, or free youth work, which really do great work – whether in the field of nature, in the field of education and training, or in the sense of youth care, as regards the preservation, improvement and beautification of individual communities. I think that in times when everyone is talking about why and how young people are doing something, why young people also set certain priorities, it is time to thank youth organisations who, in times when values and support are sought, also do appropriate work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] - Yes, it deserved an applause. I believe that those youth organisations – whether they are young farmers or young farmers, whether they are “children’s friends” or the “Austrian children’s world” – are numerous youth organisations, that are doing work by the Volkstanzverein on the “Catholic Boyschar”, which is not only relevant for leisure activities, but also shows that young people of today are naturally involved and are also interested. At this point I would like to make an appeal that it is high time to have discussions with young people and not talk about young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The last discussion on school autonomous days also showed how important it is to involve school partners. This includes not only the adults – these are the teachers and the parents – but also, of course, the student representatives. We need, whether here in the High House or in various public radio broadcasts, in my opinion, not to have the parent generation or the grandparent generation discuss why young people – “comat drinks” – drink too much or why young people have now suddenly become judges than before, but rather I would recommend that those talking about young people also learn to talk to young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am not saying that we are talking about this in the House and that you, ladies and gentlemen, are having discussions with Mr Rudas and me, but it is about letting young people, students and students speak. There is Chairman of the Austrian Federal Youth Office. It's a shame that they have no way to speak here, even in the media. I think if we already have the approach that youth is the future, then it is also time to let the youth speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45272	Now comes Mrs Mag. Musiol with 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45293	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the ranks! In the last few weeks, speakers from the government groups of the public have held that the opposition would be against everything and would not have any specific proposals. Whoever said this has either not listened to us Greens, or you have needed these flakes to deceive you that the arguments against our arguments have turned out to be against you. I would like to explain briefly, before I come to the point of concrete discussion of family policy, what we are talking about, what the structure of our speech looks like. In advance, we describe if one cannot assume what you have set for actions and actions. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Is this a rhetorical seminar?]] Furthermore, we explain why we do not agree with these actions and actions and are therefore criticizing them. Thirdly, we make our demands; then our demands are where we make very concrete proposals and tell you how we would have done otherwise. Now, quite specifically, to the family policy, where I am going to present it to you, child care facilities. [[Abg. Steibl: Thank you for the lessons! What's that cost?]] – You’re welcome! – The announcement of this government was free kindergarten and mandatory kindergarten year. Our criticism is that the implementation of these projects is not sufficiently prepared. There is a lack of kindergarten educators, there is a lack of adequate kindergarten facilities. It takes too little money to advance its expansion. [[Abg. Wöginger: Bundesländer!]] It is always argued, even now by you, that the countries are responsible for this. We are here in a competence jungle, where the countries make the federal government responsible, the federal government is responsible for the countries. That is why we have also submitted a request for a federal framework law, which we are likely to consult at the June Committee meeting. The current plan to introduce the compulsory kindergarten year for the five-year-olds will certainly go at the expense of the three-year-olds. We already know from individual federal states where childcare facilities are stopped, the places are kept open for the five-year-olds, and where there will not be enough places for the three-year-olds. Why are the seats important for the three-year-olds? – Because, on the one hand, it is an educational institution that is not only beginning at the age of five but is supposed to use it as early as possible. And on the other hand, because enough childcare places are necessary so that families can live up to their social security, social security. We know that families in which both parents can pursue a job, both parents can bring income into the meeting, are less affected by poverty than other families. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So what have we proposed from the beginning? As far as the tax reform that you, Mrs Steibl, have already celebrated before, we have said that instead of taking the money into your hands and investing in good and better-earning families, it would be necessary to invest in infrastructure. [[Abg. Steibl: These families pay taxes! They do services!]] – Yes, but the other families also need security to avoid slipping into poverty. They have refused to invest in childcare or adequate childcare. You have made client policy here and supported the families you believe are elected by them. [[Abg. Steibl: It's not about choosing, it's about...!]] Propos tax reform: You forgot another group here, namely the single parents. We know that 11 percent of all families in Austria are single-parents. We know that 27 percent of these single-parent families are affected by poverty. They have not done anything for single parents with the extension of childcare facilities or any other change in the tax reform. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ms Marek, the Secretary of State, on the question raised by Mr Kuntzl in the Committee, what you intend to do so to safeguard and support single teachers, was your answer: We set up a homepage! That was your answer. [[Abg. Wheeler: Look at positive examples in...!]] The Austrian platform for single-parents receives 80 000 €. It is also apparent that this will not be enough. And setting up a homepage where people can find out what they can do about this situation as a sufficient measure, that is more than cynical. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We therefore demand that now, at last, in the field of the Maintenance Advancement Act, where there was a broad consensus, at least in the People's Prosecution Committee, where the public prosecutor has been pointing out for years that there is a need for changes in this respect, it is very clear and very quick to make arrangements. Again: In order to avoid this poverty, to support single-parents, it also needs a clear expansion of childcare facilities. [[Ongoing calls from MEPs, Steibl and Rädler.]] – I have already said that 11 percent of all families are single parents. Last but not least: German legislation, German legislation, legislation of the place of residence, legislation of the place of residence, institution of the place of residence, institution of the place of residence, institution of That's what you've announced. It is expected to come in January; for this purpose 24.7 million is planned per year. In November, you said at a press conference that you assumed that the introduction of the papal month alone would cost 30 million. That is, from our point of view, that will not be enough. Both you and your colleague Heinisch-Hosek have said at the committee meetings that the Papa month will only be organised without income. However, there are no concrete ideas for this. And it is not yet clear how you want to implement this income-dependent childcare allowance. We say that there is a need for clear changes in the Childcare Act as a whole. This jungle is no longer clear to families and those affected. Instead of investing 167 million € in the deductibility of childcare facilities, which in turn will only benefit better-earning families, you could have taken this money into your hands to carry out a real father's participation. I shall therefore now make three more requests. The first request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request is: Motion for a resolution by Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mr Musiol, Mr Musiol, on the implementation of the government programme in the double budget 2009/2010 – Enlargement of childcare for under 3 years old The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth, is invited to submit to the National Council a draft government plan to ensure that the need-based and continuous extension of childcare provided for in the government programme is carried out with sufficient resources, in particular for under 3 years of age, despite the introduction of the 5-year-old Free Kindergarten.” The third application concerns the income-dependent childcare allowance and the father's participation. This is: Motion for a resolution by Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mr Musiol, Mrs Freundes concerning the implementation of the government programme in the double budget 2009/2010 – Income dependent child care allowance and father participation The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth, is invited to submit to the National Council a draft government plan to ensure that the creation of an income-dependent variant of childcare allowance and an attractive model for father participation is introduced quickly.” I agree with one last sentence: I believe that Mr Graf as the third President of the National Council is unbearable for this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45456	The motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are all three sufficiently supported, have also been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45643	Now comes Mr Mag. That's right. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45664	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery! Tourism and the leisure industry are an essential part of the Austrian economy. I am a representative of the most powerful federal country in Tyrol – the most powerful country in tourism! – and I myself grew up in the parental farm in tourism and was also successful in tourism for 19 years. It is clear, then, that my heart is beating for tourism. [[Demonstrative applause by Members Mr Hörl and Mr Peter Haubner.]] Thank God not only beats my heart for tourism, but also the heart of my party, the SPÖ. For example, if you were to ask people on the street who made sure that there was a parliamentary committee on tourism in Parliament, then most would probably not call the SPÖ, although it is. [[Abg. Hornek: Hörl!]] The current crisis is large, but the tourism and leisure industry has remained relatively spared. The budget framework will also help to ensure that this industry remains at a positive overall rate. Just a few facts: About two thirds of tourism and leisure workers are women. The labour market in the tourism sector is already very, very wide open: More than a third of all employees in tourism come from abroad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] The Austrian Hoteliers' Association, Mr. Hörl, is still constantly calling for vehement – including in writing by the Federal Chancellor – that the labour market should be opened even further, and everyone who opposes it is immediately put down as a tourism and business enemy, which is of course not true. We say: That's the wrong way! Taxation of the labour factor must be reduced! As a result, tourism companies can afford more and better workers, which, in turn, naturally benefits the satisfaction of guests, and this is very important in tourism. This creates jobs with a wage level that helps people to afford their lives in Austria. Finally, however, this requirement is important not only for the tourism industry but also for the economy as a whole. I can't think of a statement when I look in the direction where the HC street is usually sitting: I would call him a parliamentary tourist, because yesterday he was in the house for a maximum of half an hour, although the liberals always bet when someone is not here, and today he has not arrived at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45741	Next, Mr Magistrate. Haider on the floor. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45762	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The most important newspaper in tourism, “Tourismuswirtschaft Austria & International”, is entitled in its current issue: “Government dance around the Golden Calb. For tourism only alms.” Alms for tourism compared to the automotive and car supplier industry. – It is not a question of playing these two industries against each other, no, but if 190.000 people are active in tourism and 33 000, i.e. one sixth of them in the car industry, and if gross investments in tourism amount to € 1.2 billion and € 350 million in the car industry, then it is surprising – yes, Mrs Silhavy, it is still surprising – if the business packages bring only € 14.8 million to tourism, but the car industry € 103 million, the seven times of it, and the scrapping premium is not yet included. [[Abg. Hornek: You're doing that right now!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] – The relationship is not right here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This € 14.8 million for tourism consists of € 6 million for the increase of ERP funds, € 4.8 million for the TOP tourism promotion and € 4 million of special budget for Austria's advertising. Federal Minister Mitterlehner, you told us earlier how tourism is in crisis, that the guest radius is getting tighter. That is to say, the people from nearby markets, such as Switzerland and Germany, and also the Austrians themselves make more holidays in Austria. And you said that tourism would also have to add the €3 billion from the tax reform, because this money is also spent by the Austrians domestically. No, Mr Minister, this bill is not true! The tax reform, which is not, but only a tariff reduction, does not help exactly those who would spend a hundred percent of every extra euro and thus boost consumption, because it does not help those who earn less than €1 100, so those who need it bitterly. The acceptance of liability, the increase of ERP funds, the promotion of TOP tourism: All of this does not work at the moment, because the credit clamp is still too bad, because no loans are still being granted to companies! It would have failed to take you to Brussels, Minister of State, and to see to it that Basel II will be suspended for two years. But instead, for example, our hosts are forced by the unscrupulous non-scrupulous protection law to remodel, which they cannot afford and for which they do not receive loans. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! And the €4 million in additional support for Austria's advertising, of which 1 million comes from the Chamber of Commerce, does not even apply the inflation of the last nine years, years since the last increase in funds. This is a fact, yes, a sad fact, especially since our direct competitors Germany and Switzerland have increased their advertising resources enormously. I don't want to see the tourist world champion Austria being overtaken by Germany and Switzerland. At least €10 million would be needed in additional funding for Austria's advertising, Mr. Federal Minister. Mr. Federal Minister, you said in the committee that you would take further action if it were necessary. Finally, I quote the tourist newspaper again: These measures are “now necessary, the declines in urban tourism are enormous”.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45821	Mr Hörl has now come to speak. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45842	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! In view of the expenditures of these days, which in fact can only be justified by the fact that we face major international challenges, I think tourism is well-informed: €26 million for the Austrian hotel loyalty and €1.7 million EU funding programmes, and we take €15 million to increase ERP funds to €38 million and increase TOP tourism promotion to €24 million, and for Austria advertising €28.5 million is available. The liabilities were also increased from € 250 million to €500 million, a very important measure for the individual case from € 2 million to € 4 million. Thank you, Minister of State. Mr Mag. Haider, in view of these figures, to mention that this does not do anything is incomprehensible. I think that you are a business consultant and obviously have nothing to do with the real economy and the tourism industry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm a district superintendent of the most tourism-intensive district, and I know very well that it works at the farms in my district. The tourism industry came together with 70,000 businesses and 180,900 employees and 13 000 apprentices to 126,7 million stays. I am also proud of the development in Tyrol. Nearly 26 million nights in winter in 10,000 farms; 1.9 percent increase. I think we can be proud of it. Mr Mitterlehner, I would like to thank you for honouring these achievements and expressing them accordingly in the budget. We spend €2.2 million on promoting our shelters. We also pay more than €28 million for the promotion of our national parks, as well as Austrian advertising, as even the entire environmental protection is rich. This is actually a remarkable fact: In times of crisis I am used to spending only what is absolutely necessary, but I think we are very well positioned. During the last legislative period in the Tourism Committee, we voted in favour of developing national parks in terms of marketability and economic use. For this, Mr Federal Minister, you have set up the so-called Task Force and already spent €70 000. The tourism industry, of course, also benefits from the economic packages, from the medium-sized package. We hope that the 30 percent early depreciation of moving goods for the next two years, aid for bridging and the promotion of thermal rehabilitation will help and that, above all, the tax reform, which is a real banger, will push the economy accordingly. However, I would like to address another area where I believe that we can do a lot for the economy, and that is the expansion of hydropower. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are projects with a volume of €2.3 billion that are being invested this year according to VEÖ. That is, I think, also a great support for the economy. In fact, it should be our every interest to force the expansion of hydropower, and we should increase our efforts, for example, by ensuring that permits are granted more quickly, because the procedures take far too long. I believe that we could do a lot in this area for climate change, for economics, for business and for the future of Austria. And given the fact that we are now a power import country of 7 billion kWh, which, as experts say, is almost as much as the expandable quantity, we should proceed here with all our strength. It should be our common concern to move forward faster in this area, because there too we can create jobs and do something for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45913	Mr Linder has now come to speak. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45934	Madam President. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear colleague Hörl, either you do not talk to all colleagues or but there is an inequality in the promotions – for example between ÖVP members and other members – because the people from the tourism industry I am talking to are not happy and satisfied at the moment. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this profession, which, in my opinion, is one of the most difficult and labour-intensive, it is now possible to see anything but satisfaction and balance. Even if we have managed the first stage of the crisis well and actually got over the winter very well, we have now entered the phase where we would need help – help in the form of additional advertising and assistance in the form of additional funding. The fact is, however, that Austria has not experienced any increase in advertising in the last ten years. Inflationally adjusted amounts to around €5 million per year. This means € 5 million less for tourism. And there are the 4 million as a one-time sum really only a small part of it. As far as the promotion of TOP tourism is concerned, it has been said in the government statement: twice 20 percent increase. Annually, there is to be 9, 10 and 20 percent increase in TOP tourism advertising. However, it is correct that it is not even increased by 10 percent. If I then put a comparison instead and see that Switzerland gets €10 million more for advertising with around 37 million nights and Austria with 126 million nights only gets €4 million more for advertising, I really believe we have a lot to do there. [[Abg. We're better!]] We also have much less money at our disposal than Switzerland. In addition, there is the credit terminal, which is available. Banks change credit terms unilaterally, and additional collateral is required for pledged loans. [[Abg. Hörl: In Carinthia!]] In order not to work with general floskels, I can bring an example from my community: A business company with an annual turnover of €600 000 currently has a debt of €200 000. He has seven employees, four of whom are employed all year round. This company would have needed €32,000 now, but the banks have refused to lend it a loan. Anyone who can expect knows that at €600 000 annual turnover – this is a company I personally know – a farm that is healthy – € 32 000 really should not be a problem. Such examples can still provide us with many more Austrian hoteliers' associations. And if the honourable Member, Mr Steindl, goes out of the ÖVP and talks about individual cases here, I must say: Either you're away from the base, or you just don't want it to be true! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The comparison of tourism and car suppliers has already been made here. If you hear that there is €22.5 million for the scrapping premium and only 4 million for the Austrian advertising, you have to say: The money is available, it's just the question who gets it! That is why I ask you, Mr Minister, and you from the ÖVP: Give to tourism, to 188,000 employees, to the appreciation they need, and, Minister, to increase the funds of €10 million for Austria's advertising!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e45996	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46017	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The aim of the double budget is to combat the crisis and set employment impulses, and this is indeed happening in the context of the budget chapter of the economy. The purchasing power in the country is strengthened and the turning of the spiral is stopped downward. The initiatives of the Federal Government can be seen, also in the international comparison. Small and larger measures will help, not all of which are highly priced, but more effective. An employment initiative for the regional economy, from my own constituency, I would like to emphasise that it not only promotes employment but also becomes effective in tourism – there is something like revitalising profitability – and these are the revitalisation measures for the Marchfeld castles. These are also very important for the tourist hope area of wine district. In the coming years, by 2010, €47 million will be made available, 39 million from the federal government and 8 million from the state of Lower Austria. It is de facto a fitness program for the Marchfeld castles, for the 2011 national exhibition, which is organized together with Carnuntum. Especially in difficult economic times, it is important that employment impulses are set. And if you, Mr Haider and Mr Linder, compare tourism with the automotive industry and present figures, I have to say: Around the automobile, depending on how close the concept is, there are around 300,000 employees in Austria. And if you mention the scrapping premium, I have to tell you: Whoever calculates exactly, it comes down to the fact that the scrapping premium for the federal government is also a business. It's quite, very important that you see it that way. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, the chapter on economics covers the sectors of economics, business promotion, research, tourism, family and youth in a balanced manner. That is necessary in the crisis, and that is a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46060	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill has now come to speak. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46081	Madam President. Dear Minister! Dear Secretary of State! High house! One thing needs to be done to the benefit of State Secretary Marek: She's really hard on me! It is working very hard in the field of youth, it is trying very hard to capture the cross-sectional matter of all youth policy, and it is also trying to emancipate a little from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and also from bureaucracy. Nevertheless, it must be said that this youth budget is actually a very inconspicuous, small budget. A few billions cannot help the Secretary of State to rip out trees, but can only be sure of what is required by law. Everything else is a mini-, a fit-sized budget for project funding, where, unfortunately, one is still partly dependent on the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and the State Secretary Marek has to be extremely careful about where these project funding is going, who is being promoted and, above all, what is supported by projects. As their oppositional counterpart, I pay great attention to the fact that it does not happen that very certain youth organisations are much promoted and other institutions and youth institutions are not supported at all, for that would not be acceptable for democracy policy. Mr Fuhrmann said earlier that we should not talk to the young people about it. That is true, as I am entirely of their opinion, only the question is: Then what happens to the conversation? When I talk to young people, to young people, they need a confirmation of what I do with the content of the conversation. And this, here inside, this place, the High House is the right place to discuss, so to discuss everyday realities of young people, because there are also laws in here. And as long as Mr Fuhrmann and as long as the ÖVP do not really care to shape active youth policy, we will have to talk about everyday realities here, for example mobility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] Cross-border expansion of public transport, particularly to promote mobility in rural areas, and their free use for all under 18 years of age: That would be active youth policy, that would be real design and a real help for young people and young people. For example, the topic of security: The personal, subjective desire for security is a daily reality of youth, and it is the responsibility of the government to help young people in this regard, through an active employment policy and the creation of new jobs and also through a secure pension system. Young people are afraid now and wonder how long they have to work because they have no idea. – A secure pension system is important. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Other issues include internal security, violence prevention, well-trained executives in the youth sector, but also increasing funds for open youth work and social work, as well as sustainable environmental policy and a secure health system. The great point that the Secretary of State then connects with the Minister for Economic Affairs is the answer you owe us to the question: Who will pay for this crisis? [[Abg. Hornek: Thank God... like you!]] What will be the burden on young people and young people after the crisis? My finding is: The entire government has no ideas about active youth policy, and this government does not protect young people and young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46133	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46154	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! Yeah, it's probably right: We have a difficult situation in the economy, and we know that there are entrepreneurs who need support that there are entrepreneurs who are not currently doing so well, but we also need to see that there are many who want to look innovatively and optimistically into the future and also invest. And if we look more closely at the study that has been quoted so often today, namely the study of credit reform, then we also see that 52 percent of entrepreneurs want to invest! That's a good signal, and I think you always have to look at the other side when you see one side. Indeed, our entrepreneurs have courage, and the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, I have already said it, are the backbone of our economy: We must not forget that they spend over 2 million people on work and make up for the 100,000 apprentices! I would also like to say something about Mr Katzian, who, in his speech, put a little in a bad light here, as follows: The fishermen employ 70,000 people and are so much the bloodstream of trade. Without the fishers we would not have the fresh goods every day without the fishers one could not supply the trade accordingly, nor could one buy fresh food every day. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: There is also the railway, Mr. Colleague!]] I believe that the supporters here in Austria are a valuable part, and it is also important to support them accordingly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have made a clear decision with our budget, a decision that will once again lead us to a growing economy. The Minister has already referred to it: Many correct measures have been taken, from the eco-premie, which was not easy to implement, but which is finally being implemented now, to force the aph over the economic packages, the tax reform that brings more purchasing power, to, of course, thermal rehabilitation. – I think all these are measures that come at the right time and also help entrepreneurs and thus workers in Austria. It is true that we are here together required to do everything to support entrepreneurs so that the people here in Austria have work. I believe that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Economic Affairs are on the right track and have taken the right measures in the past and will do so in the future, so that we can look to the future with a little optimism with Austria's economy at a difficult time.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46208	Mrs Marek is now speaking. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46229	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Strengthening families especially in times of crisis is a very, very important issue and, as I believe, also an important basis that we must create and which we have committed ourselves to, which can be seen from the budget figures. The last kindergarten year has already been discussed several times, with a figure of €70 million in the economic package, and up to 2013, 70 million are planned for each country. The Federal Minister also said: This, of course, has a direct impact in the various areas, including in the countries. Mrs Musiol, if you say that this was poorly prepared and inadequately prepared, then I can only contradict it and say that we have worked very intensively to create the appropriate measures with the countries. And of course this will not happen at the expense of the three-year-olds, because that would actually be very, very counterproductive. That is why we said: The funds are already available this year, but it is only next year that all countries will actually have to introduce the obligation for the five-year-olds of 16 to 20 hours per week on at least four days, so that we can ensure that in the countries where there is a need, where there is still a lack of childcare facilities, provision can be made accordingly. Because last week about the topic of Salzburg was very present: Throughout Salzburg, it is about 120 five-year-olds who are not in charge at the moment, and with the available resources available, of course, it is possible to create the necessary care facilities and what is still necessary, but still missing, until the next autumn. It is a year and a half, and that will of course be the case. As far as child care is concerned, which is of course a special challenge for families, but also the compatibility of family and work on the one hand and the best educational opportunities for children on the other, we have set a very important milestone with the €70 million, the Article-15a agreement with the countries, that we can work intensively in the need-oriented and comprehensive development of childcare facilities, because we have taken the countries in the Article 15a agreement in so far as – and this has also signed the countries – are to be used as a freer means to create additional care offerings and to be used again. This is, of course, a very, very important piece of puzzle in the comprehensive expansion of the best possible childcare. We have agreed on the basic standards for childcare in the government programme and we have the education plan, which will be valid for all five years for the first time in all the kindergartens of Austria – and this is indeed an educational milestone, ladies and gentlemen! This is an important initiative. I would also like to remind you of the existing Article 15a agreement, which will provide the federal states with € 15 million each for this year and for next year – the countries have to co-finance it – and we will get the first figures from the countries in the summer to what extent new places have been created. The budget of €700 000 per year for innovative childcare projects continues to be available for projects – here, for example, the training of day parents is co-financed by the federal government. Here too, we are working on basic standards, which we will then develop and negotiate with the countries accordingly. The income-dependent childcare allowance has already been addressed by several previous speakers: We are currently negotiating intensively – including with social partners and experts – with the aim of creating an additional income-dependent pillar, which corresponds precisely to the living realities of parents and takes two aspects into account. The loss of income, which results from the birth of a child, is largely compensated for – 80 percent of the last net income – which, as I believe, will be a profound measure of family and social policy, because the decision for a child, and we hope to make more people brave again to the child, is something very, very important. We also want to create incentives – this is, of course, a very, very important step for the fathers – to motivate more fathers, and to offer them the opportunity to take time for the family. There will also be a corresponding flexibilization in the field of commitment, and the unfair grant scheme – I would like to say so – will be improved and re-regulated accordingly. With regard to the tax package as a whole – the tax deductibility and what we have done to relieve the families – I would like to point out once again the following, and it is not often enough to say because it is obviously one-sidedly misrepresented here again and again: This is a mix of measures, ladies and gentlemen, which on the one hand consists of transfer payments, on the other hand, of tax relief steps. It is now a fact that, especially in the more qualified medium-sized area, the birth rate is constantly falling, and it is important to make courage for children, especially in this area, and to actually relieve families who have been net payers in most areas. I think it has been very important to act accordingly and to take action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A key challenge, of course, is the compatibility of family and professional life. The Federal Minister has already mentioned the family-friendliness of the companies here, because the companies are of course very important partners in compatibility measures, because if we have childcare facilities, this is a prerequisite, but if, on the other hand, the companies are not partners, then it will be very difficult. For example, at the Audit Family & Professional, which we now want to force more strongly, we are increasingly experiencing requests from our auditors from companies that say: We now have time in the crisis, we have the opportunity to reassess ourselves here, to get better, and of course we want to promote and force it accordingly. Of course, family kindness is essential in the crisis, because well-qualified employees are particularly important after the crisis. – As an active works councillor in the private sector, I experienced myself at the time to have to reduce employees after a serious crisis and what it means to be dependent on well-qualified employees afterwards, and how valuable it is for a company to be a good employer who can, of course, also rely on good staff to get out of the crisis. It is simply economically sensible and intelligent to rely on family-friendliness, because for example, the number of sick days is significantly lower than in companies where there are no appropriate measures. In this regard, we are very important to ask the very good in front of the curtain: There is the initiative “Taten instead of Words” – a thanks to Ridi Steibl, the mother of “Taten instead of Words” – which is now also considered to be a very, very well established corporate price throughout Austria. For the first time this year we will be awarding this as a state prize, because, of course, for companies a state price has a different value than a different award. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In short, on the accusation of Mrs Musiol, I would continue to act cynically towards single-parent families, where we are going to take action: That's what I'm saying. It is almost cynical to blame alone, and I should like to point out that if, in a budget committee, in one hour, the questions relating to a budget of over €6 billion can only be exemplified. In fact, it is true that we provide for a bundle of measures to support single-parent families – but not only in our area, because, of course, the new regulation of the maintenance advance, which the Minister of Justice is currently thinking about in the Family Law Change Act, which will in particular support and help single-parent families to an important measure, but also the measures for childcare and better compatibility, are particularly important here. On youth: Mrs Windbüchler-Soushill, that we do not rip out trees, that may be, but we have taken important steps here and will continue. It is also true – I may point out – that under an ÖVP Chancellor, the insurance and basic financing of the federal youth organisations was made possible at all, and the Federal Youth Representatives Act, including its funding, is an important milestone. I may be concerned about this because the Minister for Youth, Reinhold Mitterlehner, will pay particular attention to this – because I know that, like me, youth policy is an important concern – and he will ensure that the funds, when they are provided for and available to young people, do not go somewhere else. In other words, we will set up initiatives with the organisations in the Federal Youth Office, which is the most important social partners for us, such as in the context of accessibility, project funding in the field of political education or the Federal Office for Positive Predicate. And we will also take important measures in terms of mobility, ladies and gentlemen, and here the European Union is also an important partner for funding and organisation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, because the debate in this House was very emotional today in the early days, I can also report on what we have already prepared and put on track after the events in Ebensee, because the youth and family sector is of course a very important one. We spoke last week with the chairman of the Mauthausen Committee to prepare measures in this context. There are concerned questions from parents who ask: How do we recognize signals, how can we get help? – In cooperation with the Mauthausen Committee, there will be a folder that will be distributed and issued throughout our nearly 400 family advisory services in Austria. There will be training opportunities for the social workers and, of course, training opportunities in the field of open youth work, in order to work precisely against trends such as we are currently simply feeling stronger and very special – unfortunately, there are tendencies that can even be felt to the High House – in order to be able to worry and to provide advice seeking parents and affected young people with training and support, but also with guided tours at the Memorial in Mauthausen, which can be promoted if they take place in the framework of open youth work. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: What do you mean?- Oh, my God!]] There is therefore a bundle of initiatives, which enables us to provide for and prepare measures very quickly. And, ladies and gentlemen, it is, as I believe – and we have heard and felt it again today – that it is urgently necessary to react quickly, to respond across the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46286	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46307	Mr President. Appreciate members on the government bank! Mr Auer, Mr Cap! - Ah, they're not here, all right. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr. Faul is not here either!]] However, I do not want to continue the unnecessary system of the great "strickerlists", of which Mr. Auer may have believed it makes sense – that it does not make sense, we have noticed in the last few days. Maybe we want to stay there! Another observation: I quote from one of the budget subcommittees a statement by Mr Pilz from the Greens, in which he accused Mrs Federal Minister Fekter of being the trekking mother – I do not know exactly how he said that – of the criminal, the thief or something similar. – That is to say, it is apparently not a problem for the Greens if a leading representative of them accuses of the drawing motherhood of executioners of an incriminated crime. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Korun and Windbüchler Soushill.]] – That’s right, unfortunately! No problem, good. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Back to Economy: In the past, we have been able to hear from the Economic Federation and the Chamber of Commerce very plausible statements that SMEs are so important, we have been able to hear that both want to reduce additional wage costs – no, I am not – and that, of course, apprenticeship funding is very important, especially for young listeners. [[Abg. Grill: Are you also at the Economic Federation?]] – And now, as I walk around the constituency in Upper Austria, I am repeatedly asked by entrepreneurs: Well, what really happens now, because we feel very little? In the case of additional wage costs, allowances could be increased, for example for service providers' surcharges or for local taxes or for the family compensation fund, but nothing has actually happened. We are currently in the situation that the labour factor carries a tax burden of about 17.5 percent, which is 4 percent more than the EU average. We always have to listen to some EU comparisons, but where it is important, no EU comparisons are made, or they are ignored. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, this would be important for new business settlements and for the shadow economy – there, Professor Schneider from Linz can still make tons of studies and statements, that does not matter if nothing is done on the political side. Let us come to the SMEs, to the smaller enterprises. These call for measures that really relieve them. For example, industrial firms or medium-sized enterprises can react very flexibly and to a certain extent by means of education or short-time work. Of course, these possibilities do not have a small company or a so-called Ich-AG at all. But with other measures we only finance unemployment. Of course, it is also necessary that we take measures on the other hand, the employee side, and help workers with some kind of comfort pavement, but we should actually start with the economy, we should start where jobs are generated. The third point is the apprentices. We will get a system in which the enterprises will receive less money for apprentices from the second year of teaching than before. It'll have an impact. And I think that this is particularly interesting for the young viewers, and they will react accordingly when voting decisions arrive. That means in total: Nothing happens with regard to aid for the transfer of companies, nothing happens in terms of legal form neutrality, depreciation and investment exemption. And if Mr Steindl says about the ÖVP that Austria is at the front, we would like to say almost: Yes, but where nothing happens! [[Abg. Tamandl: That's unscrupulous!]] – This is not insidious, that is very serious, because that shows the facts. Mr. Mitterlehner – he was finally in the Chamber of Economics Upper Austria – would have to know what the entrepreneurs are pressing, what is happening and what is happening, but he unfortunately does only make any populism attacks against colleagues Themessl, he unfortunately does not bring anything to the facts, he does nothing further. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] In the securities area, it would be called an underperformer. But he still has the rest of the legislative period to rise to the performer. That's too little for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46406	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46428	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! In view of the economically difficult time, it would be naïve to claim that it will not have or will not have an impact on tourism and the tourism industry. Tourism – which has already been addressed several times today – plays an important role in the Austrian economy. According to TSA assessment, the direct and indirect economic value added by the tourism and leisure industry is €45 billion. Some 200 000 employees are employed in tourism and in its close range. Why do I mention these numbers? – In order to represent the importance, but also the need for more action in this budget and for appropriate framework conditions. With the increases in ERP funds already mentioned today, with the TOP tourism promotion and with special budgets for the Austrian advertising industry. initiatives in addition to the general economic activities. The Research Institute Synthesis has prepared several crisis scenarios for tourism for 2009 due to the economic crisis. Up to 7,200 jobs could be in danger. We all hope that this will not happen and that the initiatives will be taken accordingly. In addition to the financial framework, measures to combat unemployment have also been developed at social level. In this context, the introduction of the qualifying week should be mentioned immediately before the start of the season. Finally, two positive messages: Yesterday, a newspaper read: The best winter of all time for Upper Austrian tourism from November to April. Furthermore, you can read in the magazine for Austrian hoteliers: Vienna is again the city number one with Paris. The booking situation for the autumn is very good. So here, too, positive reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46479	Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46500	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! In times like those in which people have to purchase pay cuts, in times like those in which people have short work, it is especially necessary and important to strengthen families, to support families, to invest in families. It must be clear to us that even in times of crisis, families cannot be degraded to alms, but we must be more aware than ever of the social value families have and which economic factor families represent. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] We must therefore ask ourselves what families need to be able to cope with their lives and that their lives may be manageable. Today, I have taken an Upper Austrian survey that Upper Austria's families – I believe, one can also refer to other federal states – have been plagued by money and job problems. A very high number of families wish for a better balance of family work for the pension, 92 percent want less taxes for families, and 45 percent want more financial support from the state. It is about 20 percent who say in Upper Austria that they have financial concerns and that their family activity can only be very difficult to coordinate with their professional activity. Therefore, I think two factors in family policy are very important: on the one hand, the infrastructure for the compatibility of family and work and on the other, the necessary financial resources – and you, Mrs State Secretary, have already said that transfers should also be taken into account in the tax system. As for the infrastructure, I am very glad that this government has finally decided to regulate childcare in such a way that it becomes manageable for all, through the Free Kindergarten, which has been used for a long time in the Federal Republic of Carinthia and where, above all, last year is mandatory. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The last year as a mandatory introduction is a demand we have been making on the part of the BZÖ for a very long time. And I as the Upper Austrian say, I am glad that this will also be in Upper Austria from autumn. This shows what may move upcoming elections; there is also a lot of moving in Upper Austria in family policy. In order to further ensure freedom of choice, it is also important that we offer other forms of care for the families. On the part of the BZÖ, we are the daymothers, the dayparents especially important, but also – I say very consciously here – that family network, which is partly still possible in the families. I think about the grandparents, the grandmothers, the grandparents. For me, it is not quite understandable that, in order to be able to pay child care costs, grandparents now have to make an education. I don't see this, because it signals that the work of the grandparents that took place within the family was actually not worth anything. And no one can tell me that the work of grandparents, of family members, is not worth anything! The second, which seems very, very important to me, is the financial resources. We thank God many transfer payments from the federal government, many transfer payments also from the countries that should be adjusted annually. And we also have, I may mention this, the childcare allowance that is now developing towards an income-dependent care allowance. You, Mrs State Secretary, always say a model, but if I hear the language of the social democratic government partners, I have to say that no one is talking about child care, but only about income-dependent care. And I think these are two different things. An important family policy instrument for the sustainable financing of family benefits is the family compensation fund, FLAF, which currently has a volume of €6.2 billion. And what is frightening: The deficit increases to €3.6 billion by 2010, which is already 60 percent of the existing volume. In 2006, the Social Democracy promised to change the financial structures, but nothing has happened so far, so I ask the Secretary of State: When does something finally happen? There is no evaluation, there are no new proposals. [[Abg. Riepl: You did nothing about how you were in the government!]] How can we secure and finance this instrument, which I consider to be absolutely important and necessary, sustainable? I believe that, especially in turbulent times of financial and economic crisis, we should also take unconventional measures in this area. You all know that the bank savings package will cost Austrian taxpayers €235 million each year, and this payment obligation will, of course, extend to the next generations. That is why we propose from the BZÖ that the banks operating on the tax money and rehabilitating themselves by means of tax money should, as it were, return to the Austrian families a direct aid of the partially invested capital. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This direct aid could account for at least half of the 9.3 percent interest on the planned capital. This should be paid as a family insurance to FLAF. According to our calculations, this means that about €600 million could be spent on the families. I think that this direct investment in families would be right, cheap and, above all, sustainable. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, the families must not be the losers in times of crisis, but we must also show them by this example that we value their work, because at least 60 billion euros a year are paid free of charge for care and care by the families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46586	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46653	I call Mr Ferdinand Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46678	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! If one hears the debates of the opposition parties, especially on the focus of the banking package, one must be glad that they can never get to the close of a government, because the confusion is boundless. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: You've already caused that!]] What I would like to say to you in this regard and what you will see when you look at international development is that this is a support in the form that our banks' competitiveness has been preserved on the international market, in the sense that the equity base could be increased from 8 percent to more than 9 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: In Eastern Europe...!]] Something you may not have taken into account yet is that this is not a gifted money – but you probably don't understand that. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Eastern Europe!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This is money for which banks have to pay 8 percent or even more than 9.2 percent annually. This is in itself expensive money, and it will also bring a yield to the Minister of Finance. Ergo, I'll tell you: What you have to worry about in connection with the banking package is just you, but thank God not the banks themselves because we have gained international competitiveness. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: You have..., they don't pay for losses!]] However, I would like to focus this interesting discussion on an institution which, as I believe, should be an essential part of an active economic policy and thank God, is also the Austrian Business Agency, which was set up to obtain business settlements to Austria. Looking at the statistics of this institution, it is noted that jobs have been created and that more than 100 establishments have been brought to Austria last year. Today it is 55, among them a large company, almost a glimpse of the light, namely Google, whose data center could be brought to Austria, near Steyr. This, too, brings tax revenue again, brings jobs – in this sense a success. It should also be noted in the Court of Auditors' report, which has been available for some time, that, in order to continue financing the Austrian Business Agency, all necessary financial resources are to be provided to a sufficient extent. If you look at how the Austrian Business Agency works in an international way, with about 180 other international organizations, it is the world’s peak; this is also noted here, because it is a merit of those who manage it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We Vienna would be glad if, within the framework of the Vienna Economic Fund, we had a similar quality, which reached the business location for Vienna, as we have in the Austrian Business Agency, through which companies are brought to Austria. I would be glad if we had a similar institution in Vienna, through which we would have more business settlements to Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46766	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46787	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My dear colleague, Mr Maier, is currently in the “Kurier”, page 38: Ecology is driving business forward. [[The speaker showed the above article.]] Minister for Economic Affairs, we need an energy base that is forward-looking. Minister of Economic Affairs, we now need a governance and funding policy, which then makes us independent – 2011/2012/2013 – of a future oil price increase. Mr Maier, we also need a localisation policy – Google is a good example – based on the fact that we are a good location, which on the other hand brings us tax revenue, but which is also energy policy-oriented in the future. [[Abg. Hear: That's right!]] Google will need a lot of electricity, that is undisputed. [[Abg. Grill: Yes, exactly, perfectly right!]] The great surfers are also energy eaters. [[Abg. Grill: Enter the caves and go up to the trees!]] In so far as I say that again and again, economic policy in Austria must also be energy efficiency policy. Mr Minister, we are happy to be working on the energy plan in this direction. Mr Hörl, as you have talked about hydropower in connection with tourism: I'm in favour of us really exploiting the potential for efficiency first. You know very well: The storage power plants are at most for peak power, and we sell them abroad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I do not think that the power plant projects you are looking at will cover the basic load. What we need is an increase in efficiency – also in the power plant sector, in the small-scale power plant sector. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hörl]] For me, increasing efficiency is even the key word. We also think about it in tourism! Remember, too, that if we use the public funds – and I would like to address Austria’s advertising – we will be more focused and targeted so that we can bring more tourists to Austria, so that the host world becomes somewhat more colorful and diverse and the number of guests will be slightly higher. The locals or the people who work in Austria should be prompted to make a holiday in Austria this time. And that is why I would like to stress to all my colleagues in the tourism sector, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, that you have a little more resources to make available – the State Secretary Marek has an open ear for this – in order to better equip Austrian advertising, because we also have an efficiency value that is relatively high. Just compare how much money you take in your hand for the eco-premie – you call it – and we're talking about a scrapping premium. Remember, the employment potential in our automotive supplier industry is significantly lower than the employment potential or the number of employees in the tourism sector. Tourism gets only €4 million one-time, while the scrapping premium is certainly a fivefold of that and actually only results in preferential purchases. On the other hand, if the funds for the Austrian advertising were increased, this would have a lasting effect, which would very probably be enough in future years, which we unfortunately do not see in the scrapping premium. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Oils.]] That is why, Mr Minister and also Mr State Secretary, you remember that in the area of tourism, we need something like a common pool of forces. Mrs. State Secretary Marek, you were more often in the committee than we were discussing this. The individual organizational concerns are often national agendas. Cooperation between the federal states or between the individual tourism organisations in the countries is often the problem. We also discussed this in the context of the meeting on the national parks and their possibility of being used more touristically. At this meeting it turned out that human communication is often lacking. On-the-spot cooperation must therefore be promoted in the region. That's why my closing plea: Try to anchor this mediatic activity at federal level! You have a good department in the ministry. In this context, I also thank your employees and hope that with these good employees you will also strengthen this communicative element, this coordination and organisational element, so that we can continue to promote tourism together with a more dotted Austria advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46881	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e46902	Mr President. Representatives of the Federal Government! High house! In their fundamental criticism of the Federal Government's economic policy, MEPs Themessl and Dolinschek have neglected the fact that the economy and private purchasing behaviour are also a matter of trust. The Austrian workers can rely on the Faymann/Pröll government and on the majority in this House as well as the entrepreneurs in our country – and they know that too. Ladies and gentlemen! With all legitimate criticism of individual measures and details, our economic recovery programme is the right answer to the economic crisis. The social and economic response to the biggest economic crisis over the last decades is from securing the Austrian savings to the relief of low-income workers, from the discharge of medium-sized people through the tax reform and the package to support families, from the support measures for small and medium-sized enterprises to the export offensive for the Austrian economy to the advanced infrastructure investment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there can only be one goal that we have to pursue together: to secure jobs, to secure income, to secure pensions, to secure the future of our youth, to ensure social cohesion in our society. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, to return to the beginning of today's sitting: With the cross in hand and with radical sayings you cannot secure jobs or help companies in that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: ridiculous, please!]] Mr Vilimsky, with radical sayings, has been tried decades ago to respond to the great global economic crisis of the 1930s. Wherever this has led, we have experienced this sad. [[Abg. Vilimsky: You are the haters!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] These are clearly the wrong concepts! I would ask you to support the socially just concepts of the majority of this House. Whenever the rights with the cross have passed in hand, it has had a hook, dear colleague Vilimsky. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: Don't be ridiculous!]] Trust in social justice and join us in a social, fair and life-worthy Austria – and not for hatred and sayings that do not bring us forward, but only harm our society, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Abg. Vilimsky: With you? – No, thank you!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47019	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47042	High house! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State! Mr Maier von der ÖVP, I wish the state of Austria that the banks can also repay the recorded participation capital. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the moment, the Hypo Alpe-Adria cannot even pay and cover interest. On Mr Wenninger's statement: You will have the opportunity to support the economy in your mind. I shall put forward a motion for a resolution on the greening of the truck tax. We have already mentioned today that the transport industry is very, very bad. It suffers enormously from this economic development. As of mid-2008, orders and cargo revenue have been broken in. In the case of freight, decreases of up to 60 percent are recorded. In the meantime, 3,000 employees have become unemployed. On the other hand, we have the highest car taxes and the highest tolls in this EU-27. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] On the real issue I wanted to deal with today. There is currently a poster from the SPÖ in Upper Austria, which reads: “Justice instead of boundless greed!” – held in red. I'm surprised it's the SPÖ that's doing this poster. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Don't worry, I'm not talking about the foundations that came up in the meantime in the Styria and Upper Austria and are held by the SPÖ, no, I'm talking about cross-board leasing. I also do not find any reserves for cross-border leasing in the economy's budget. For all those who have not been concerned: Cross-Border leasing operations are leasing matters across state borders. Based on a very complex legal design, for example, cities leased infrastructure to a US investor very long-term and rented them back in a specified duration. It is pure business that has exploited a gap in the American tax law. With such financial transaction I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. I remember a request from the EAG Supervisory Board – I was sitting there at that time – which brought the Energy AG Oberösterreich benefits of about €70 million. But it was wrong – we know that now – and that is why I voted against this decision with my colleague Hintermayr at the time. Cross-Border leasing operations are chargeable to US taxpayers. In the 1990s, there was a real fashion appearance in cross-board leasing, which mainly concerned public-owned assets. The cross-board leasing volume in Austria is currently €20 billion. Between 1998 and 2003, the municipality of Vienna alone had six cross-border leasing contracts with a total of 2.3 billion. There, trams, subway gardens, the canal network, even the data center of the municipality of Vienna were sold to the Americans. But also the ÖBB, the Post, the Austro Control, the electricity suppliers such as Verbund, BEWAG, Linz AG, Tiroler Kraftwerke, Energie AG have sold what this has held. Always was actually the greed of the drive for these transactions, the greed to make even more profit and to deposit even more. These contracts had 1 600 pages in size, were in English, based on American law, deposited abroad. In Austria, of course, fees have been recovered. The greed was therefore extremely great. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The complexity of these contracts initially supported international lawyers and financial advisors, who did well to do so. U.S. institutes such as Lehman Brothers, AIG Insurance and Freddie Mac are involved. One has always read about these in the newspaper, Lehman has gone bankrupt in the meantime. This is the problem we have today. A bankruptcy of the respective US investor would make ownership of the leased items disputed. In the most negative case, leased goods such as canal networks, locomotives, power plants would have to be bought back from Austrian partners, that is, we would have to get into the bag a second time, and if I say “we”, it is always the taxpayer. Ladies and gentlemen, it was above all – I said first of all, the city of Vienna was primarily and other cities – the reds that supported and exploited these transactions. And it was the greed that drove the reds there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why the poster, which is in Upper Austria, is totally wrong, or one wants to say to one's own comrade: Friends, back with greed! Now the question to the Minister for Economic Affairs: Dear Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner, do you have an overview of the extent of cross-border leasing operations? How many cross-border leasing operations are becoming a boomerang because of Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy, and what damage does this cause for the Republic of Austria? I can conclude by saying that the two Members of the Liberal Group voted against these cross-border leasing operations in the Energy Supervisory Council at the time, because we At the time, they knew something wasn't right. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47179	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47241	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47262	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The family is the foundation for the development of our society. That is why it is of particular importance to do everything possible to support families as much as possible. This federal government is doing everything, ladies and gentlemen, to help families to strengthen families, but not only the federal government, but also the countries and communities. I do not understand the criticism of the fact that the countries and communities are also working for our families. As a local politician, I say to you: The kindergartens are well removed from our communities and federal states. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Upper Austria, as I believe, is an example, where the Free Kindergarten will be introduced from September of this year, for every two and a half years until the schooling of the child. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] The kindergarten is therefore free of charge for all children. This is a milestone in family policy, ladies and gentlemen, and Upper Austria is certainly a prime example. On the initiative of Landeshuptmann Dr. Josef Pühringer, this Free Kindergarten was introduced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What has the covenant done to help the families? Obviously all of this is forgotten, but we will not tire out to say it again and again. The 13th. Family aid was introduced and is paid out for the second time in September, i.e. at the start of school, where it is necessary to help the families. The tax reform, ladies and gentlemen: 510 million €! 220 € Free amount per child per year, the child care costs are deducted from 2 300 €, from the hort to the afternoon care, and the family allowance, the amount of the child allowance, is increased. This has already been paid out. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a direct support for our families. That is what this Federal Government stands for, and this is what the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, stands for. It is said again and again, especially by the Greens, that nothing is done for single-earners and single-parents; some in 2003/04, in which we decided to have a tax reform, in which children's surcharges were decided on the single-earner and single-earner deductions, which are also paid as a negative tax, not in the House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's worth mentioning. We cannot take the same measures every two or three years once again. This was the first time that the arms were seized, because it was also necessary. I would like to mention the options for child care, which is important to us. It's about the parents being able to decide how long they want to stay with the child. The variants we offer are a good measure for a functioning family policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If the income-dependent childcare allowance comes as an additional variant – the woman's state-of-the-art Secretary is in the process of preparing – then we will also offer those mothers or young women an opportunity that is active in working life. This is, as I think, an important measure that we can implement here. Ladies and gentlemen, finally on the subject of youth. The youth is much better than their reputation! Let's look at the clubs, sports clubs, music clubs, fire brigades, Red Cross, we live there by our young people. And that is what we should say as mandates. Not taking out a few negative examples, but the youth is better than their reputation. We can build on youth! The young people are really willing to work actively in volunteer work. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mrs. State Secretary Marek, I know that you are very keen on bringing the voluntary social year on a good track. I think it would be for the young.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47380	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47402	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Dear audience at the gallery! I can only say to the economic budget from the Tyrolean point of view that the companies are afraid. The AWS promotions are good, but they take too long. There are companies that submitted applications via the bank three months ago, but there is still no answer to this day. The companies need the guarantees, I am happy to make the applications available to you from some companies, since there is a matter of urgency and it is not just headlines emphasized. Much too little is done in the plant - I disagree. There are still far too few farms, too few jobs are created. This required the BZÖ flat tax model. This would ensure very, very many jobs and create new ones. In the energy sector, we should finally write down here in the House the objective of becoming energy self-sufficient, and that relatively quickly with the help of photovoltaics. For road construction: Lienz has been discussing the development of the B 100 for 15 years, but there are no solutions in view. I do not see any courage to act, this red-black government secures the grain instead of massively helping SMEs. [[Abg. Silhavy: Oh you, oh you!]] – Mrs Colleague, good morning! Did I wake you up? One more thing: At the Austrian Control Bank in December, we increased the liability from 40 billion to 45 billion. Liquidity is there more than enough, but the companies are very sorry that there is no guarantee that very, very much bureaucracy prevails. – There too, Minister of State: Please step in! Now a short while to tourism in Tyrol. Mr. Hörl, who is not here right now, has said how great and how classic that is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] - Now he's here! – I can only tell you: In Tyrol there are almost no Tyroleans who are engaged in tourism. Read the figures from the Court of Auditors' report on how less these people are paid! [[Abg. Hörl: That's ridiculous!]] There's something you can do at last. Very short to Swarovski in Tyrol: This is a letter of termination of a Tyrolean family father with five children. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] In April alone, 800 people were stopped to reach this solution – it says “solution” – in mutual agreement. You don't hear anything about that. There's nothing going on with our country captain Platter, he's asleep. [[Abg. Grillisch: You can't say the head of state is asleep!]] There are very urgent initiatives taken when one knows that Swarovski is currently building a large plant in the Czech Republic – supported by EU funds – and is massively reducing jobs in Tyrol. I'm sure that can't be in our sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47492	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47513	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Mrs. State Secretary Marek, first of all I should like to mention your statement on cooperation with the Mauthausen Committee very positively. I think you're on a very good path, and that's very important for our youth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the economic budget: In the financial and economic crisis, SPÖ also stands for a broad range of SMEs, for strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises and also for individuals. This is also clearly seen in the double budget. The focus is on tax reform, discharge, stronger purchasing power, early depreciation of investments, economic programmes, procurement. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Which one?]] And another economic programme according to the proposals of the Municipal and Municipal Governments is in discussion. The AWS, Austria Wirtschaftsservice GmbH – already mentioned several times today – has gained significant importance. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: So what?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes and now?]] One important point – and I would like to address this in particular – is vocational training, the dual training system practice and school. This is an advantage for Austria. The high quality of Austrian skilled workers is internationally recognized. “Teach with Matura” opens up new opportunities and is intended to contribute to the long-standing image improvement of teaching. Coming to the end: The benefits of small and medium-sized enterprises are due to appreciation and recognition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] We advocate fair conditions of competition and fiscal justice. The trend towards small and medium-sized enterprises and the first steps are set. Finally, Mr President, I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Grain duration: With regard to the posters of your party, self-criticism would be appropriate from you! I wish them. It's really to be expected. [[Abg. Singer: This is the language of the people!]] For justice, we are proud of that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47609	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47630	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! From my time as a family speaker, one thing has remained to me, namely an intensive relationship to the or the observation of the “Familie & Beruf Management GmbH” and, of course, the interest that happens with youth policy in this country – also from the official side. [[Abg. Grill: When was that? When were you family speakers?]] I will deal with these two issues. On the topic “Familie & Beruf Management GmbH”: [[Abg. Weinzinger: Where is the liability limited?]] It has been sent to me by your side a question response, and I know both of you, Minister of State, Mrs State, as a serious politician. The answer is unscrupulous. I'm telling you that quite openly. You can't answer questions like that! “Familie & Beruf Management GmbH” was from the beginning – and everyone knows that we have often discussed it enough in this House; a project by the then Federal Minister Haubner, with whom she has provided some party friends – a project in which it steams from corruption – I can only describe it that way! – and in which hardly any activities continue. Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky has actually tried to answer requests relatively openly. – But what you're doing now is to put the bar in front of you: We're not saying anything in there, I'm just telling you one thing – there are some rulers from this society sitting here and listening to: There is certainly an answer from our side! I don't like that! That's not worth the subject either. I'll make you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of all parties, also attentively – you all know! – that was distributed at the time and that we requested – that is, across the parties – prior to the dissemination: It must be guaranteed – despite dislocation! – that we are informed. And now the answer comes: We're not informing. We'll tell you how many employees in there are busy, how the names of the employees are, as the Supervisory Board is called, otherwise you can get your information elsewhere. Let me tell you one thing: To the question of how many businesses were re- audited in 2007 and 2008, write: 151 establishments in 2007 and 170 establishments in 2008. I am against the fact that Mrs Bundesminister Kdolsky said for 2007: There were six new farms. - Well, anyone says the untruth! Were there six or 151 establishments in 2007? At the time, the Federal Minister meant that up to 30 companies were planned to audit each year in the medium term. – This is a maximum number, 30 farms! I'm sorry, is an entire company busy auditing 30 companies? Then I've looked at the homepage – which, by the way, sometimes doesn't work, I also say to it; today I have managed to open it –: There are still the old farms that have been audited in 2003, 2002, including the famous Landgasthof, which I have already debated. He's got three employees. This is – as I suppose – the host, the host's wife and the daughter. This company is audited by a few thousand euros and made family-friendly. Mrs Bundesminister Kdolsky then said: As of 2006, no more holdings will be audited under five persons, because this is not possible. – This is still on the homepage and is listed as a success for the year 2007/2008. That's scandalous! Lock this operation! This is better than continuing, with so little effect and so many losses or side noises. Lock this operation! We all pay for this farm. And all of us, ladies and gentlemen, are responsible, because Parliament decided to do so at the time. I still know very well that there was resistance to this society from the circles of the ÖVP at the time. That's why: Look You're not too close now! And of you, Minister of State and Secretary of State, I expect other answers! - That's the first one. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second because it was now also addressed: I think it is good, Mrs State Secretary, to announce that something will happen in the matter of youth work, there will be a folder and there will be training courses. There's a folder already! It's not from you, it's from the FPÖ. [[The speaker holds up a folder on which the title “The Blue Planet” can be read.]] This is abuse of academic funds, because that's not the work of academies. But that's not all, it's about the contents of this folder. In a way that we know about the Freedom Party, the reproach with the three fingers is repeated, so to speak, as the beer is ordered. I say one to you, Mrs State Secretary: There's a conversation about your work, unfortunately! So responsible is that you say it is made folder, there will be training offers: This is distributed to all young people in Austria in an edition of 500,000 copies. [[the speaker points to the above-mentioned folder]] This is abuse of academic funds. I repeat it very clearly once again. [[Abg. May. Kogler: (in the direction of FPÖ) Tax-money abuse! They misuse tax money!]] Political propaganda is being made the worst! That's the worst thing in this comic book! It's gonna be hot, too! It's not just about the misuse of taxpayers' money. [[Abg. May. Kogler: (in the direction of FPÖ) You are no longer a cleaner party! ... enough dirt to plug!]] Then let me tell you something, Mrs State Secretary: If you really want to do something in this area of right-wing propaganda and agitation, take away the funding from the Freedom Youth ring! This is the only way we can take a step here so that something really happens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today I read in the “Falter” that in the Styria at a rally of the FPÖ several participants of this rally, separated from the local demonstrators, were seen, photographed, filmed, as they represent their “win Heil!” reputation! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: The “Falter” is not an objective newspaper!]] Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! I know that there are good links with the National People's Party in the ranks of the Freedom Youth Ring in Styria. I know that in Upper Austria there are good cross-links to the “Action Community for Politics” or its youth organisation, the so-called “Alpen-Donau Info” in the ranks of the Freedom Youth Ring. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kurzmann.]] Mrs Winter reads these AFP newspapers and magazines in the series constantly – as did some other FPÖ delegates. [[Abg. Dr. Winter keeps a document up to date.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Here!]] You don't find anything with it. They are clearly moving in right-hand radical circles. You have to say that clearly. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann:... left radical!]] The Ring of Freedom Youth is constantly involved in this process, up to individual officials. In Salzburg, Upper Austria, Tyrol, Styria or anywhere else, officials of the Freedom Youth Ring are constantly being told how they participate in right-wing radial gatherings, how they raise their hands, how they participate in right-wing radical activities. [[Abg. Singer: Green answer to the economic crisis! The Greens provoke – and everyone else is to blame!]] It's documentable. The success of your side, on the part of the Freedom Party, is then short-term the offer for information. Mr Kurzmann, you have the opportunity to explain this now! Mrs Winter, you said you spoke to the young people. Only with regard to media contacts: If the media then ask you questions, you are obviously not to speak. – That’s exactly how you deal with it: We will, of course, follow this, if it turns out that the lifting of hands was a Hitler greeting! But it may have been some other greeting, just as you show “three ” with your fingers and say that it is a three - beer order. – This is the way you are impoverished by the problem that you yourself are involved in! [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: Left extreme...!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: You organize...!]] Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Of course, that's not just your responsibility. I'll do it. You're not guilty of it, but I want to support you. It is all our responsibility to deal with the problem. There's the problem inside!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47859	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47881	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the budget debate. My topic – as you can probably imagine – is of course tourism, a success story in Austria. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Nowhere in the world is there expected to be as many nights per person as in Austria. What I heard from my previous speakers, just from the tourism speakers of the opposition, has actually disappointed me a little. The only thing they said was: more budget! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No, more cooperation! You didn't listen!]] We know, however, that it is not always the budget alone, whether a successful economic factor is successful or not. I would now like to give you an example. I'm sorry to have to bring it back from my native country of Carinthia. Three years ago, the tourist tax was increased between 50 and 100 percent in order to have more money for tourism. The budget of Carinthia advertising was increased by 100 percent. There are about 13 million nights there, and last year we spent €19 million on Carinthia advertising. For comparison: In Tyrol there were 44 million nights and a budget of 16.5 million €. Growth rates in 2008 were around 1 percent in Carinthia and 5 percent in Tyrol. [[Abg. Petzner: Stop, your federal state...!]] This shows that money alone simply cannot make tourism numbers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Linder.]] I would also like to say quite clearly: Our Federal Minister and the Austrian advertising have already responded in winter and have also made an additional €4 million for tourism to invest in advertising. There tourism committee- Obmann Linder from BZÖ has not even thought about what one can do for tourism in summer! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] Now in June, he insists that we need more budget for Austria advertising. – This is the difference between speech and action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The government parties are acting. You'll react if you need it. They use the funds efficiently and sparingly because they know: All the money that's being thrown out now, we have to make it again! And where should it come from again as from taxpayers and companies?- Oh, my God! That's why we need to be careful about this. I hope that tourism will be partially spared from this economic crisis. So far, he's been keeping that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47978	Next speaker: Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e47999	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! The family policy of the government parties is, as we know, a not-ending issue. Neither in the 2009 budget nor in the 2010 budget, we were able to see the slightest approaches to make it better for families. [[Abg. Wheelers: Examples!]] There are many speakers of the government parties for the families, as we hear again and again, but nothing can be seen about actions and actual improvements for the families. It's not working on it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, while you are talking a lot about family-promoting measures that are intended to be made and so on, you are talking about: Who else can believe that? You've had enough time to do something in the last decades. Nothing has happened to noticeable improvements; probably even prevents you! [[Abg. Grillitsch: How do you know that?]] As we have already heard today, the family compensation fund would have been suitable and intended for the actual support of the families. And how does it look? He/she is eroded in favour of the pension scheme: In 2009, €1.56 billion will go there and €1.56 billion will also go there in 2010. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – Unfortunately, nothing changes, you have to say it again and again, Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. Grillitsch: Where have you been in recent years?]] The 2009 tax reform will benefit only the double-earner families. The single earners – as we have already heard from the Greens – stay on the track, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Wöginger: I've already explained that to you!]] The single earners stay double on the track, especially when we look at the fact that there will now be the Free Kindergarten, which is very welcome. But the mothers who want to take care of the children themselves, who want to stay at home and who want to make it voluntary – but do not have the freedom of choice to actually stay at home because of their financial dependence of course – are disadvantaged. [[Abg. Riepl: Why are they disadvantaged?]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at what ÖVP has called for in Upper Austria and how it has behaved against the introduction of the Free Kindergarten, which was demanded by the liberals already in 2006! I'd like to bring you a few quotes. ==References== In December 2008, FPÖ submitted a budget application for a non-contributory kindergarten – it was rejected by ÖVP, SPÖ and the Greens. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] ==References== December 2008 – overnight – our head of state in Upper Austria came the enlightenment, which then said: [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, very nice!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] Upper Austria should be as soon as possible, and above all with 1. September 2009 to introduce the Free Kindergarten. Shortly before, ladies and gentlemen, Landesrat Sigl has said that free kindergarten is populist, Landesrat Stockinger has said that a free kindergarten year is an acidic election sugar. – It is possible to see how proposals are dealt with before elections, and how now – at once with delay – the ideas, thoughts and suggestions of the liberals are taken up again and again and again and again to the benefit of the families. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A mandatory kindergarten year before entering school – how should this work? Do you want that to be executed? Let the children show from home? Let your parents show up in kindergarten because the children don't come to kindergarten? [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: These are ideas! It works in Carinthia! That's not where children are shown, in Carinthia!]] – Mein Ladies and gentlemen, you do not think about how this should actually be enforced. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties here in the house! I call you in the name of the Austrian families: Get out of your lethargy! Take your responsibility towards the Austrians and the Austrian families and actually do something for the families – not just intermediate calls!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e48163	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e48185	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear visitors to Parliament! The tourism and leisure industry employs almost 200 000 people in Austria and is thus an important factor in employment. Above all, however, this sector has a great regional importance. It is about employment, regional value added, and regional economic cycles. If we say so, it all sounds very theoretical. It is really about fair opportunities for young people to have fair opportunities for men and women in the regions. That is why the tax reform carried out with the family package is, of course, an essential boost for the industry, and this should really be emphasized here in this House. However, the economic incentives such as the thermal renovation or the medium-sized funds must also be used by the industry. Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs, you know that we support the demand for Austria's funds to increase advertising to €10 million, but I also welcomed your very early response to the crisis – with the increase of €4 million in funding for Austria's advertising. I would like to stress once again that I think it is very positive that you too have recognized that this may not be yet it will have been the last to provide assistance and, if necessary, to provide special resources for special projects. I do not want to mention the continuation and expansion of the successful model regions – which is essential – but also in the field of rural areas, further activities need to be set up, especially in the area of infrastructure. Fair opportunities for people in all regions of Austria are our political response to hate-polemics and hetz campaigns.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e48230	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e48251	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The Austrians are becoming increasingly difficult to create a family, to maintain a family, and above all to live a family. Although the need of the family as a germ cell of society is regarded as undisputed, in Austria it still does not have the importance it deserves. Money for families is still seen only as a social benefit rather than a sustainable investment in the future. The institution family has very entrepreneurial qualities, which are highlighted especially in times of economic and financial crisis. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Current estimates, which measure the time spent on family services – such as education or care – in money, come to the conclusion that in Austria family work is done worth €60 million per year. About 80 percent of family work is still done by women. This must also be mentioned here. Since the introduction of the childcare allowance in 2002, this family benefit has not been increased. Family allowances, the amount of children's retirement and the amount of care paid have been a one-time increase, but this does not entitle us to constant inflation in the event of an item. The loss of child care benefits is already more than 18 percent, the loss of family allowances despite the introduction of the 13th. Family aid payment at 13 percent. I should also like to mention the tax reform which has already been discussed today. As part of the so-called tax reform 2009, which is actually just a collective reform, we have developed a separate tax package from the BZÖ for the family sector, which contains a number of improvements. Annual valorizations on family aid are also planned. Our BZÖ tax model provides, among other things, that the single-earner and single-earner deduction amount is increased by 100 € compared to the government model, i.e. up to 464 € per year. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The amount of child drop-off is calculated in the government model at 58,4 €, in our model it would be 85 € per month and per child. It is also worth mentioning that the payment of the amount of the child's allowance paid together with the family allowance continues to be only 12 times, as the amount of the allowance is not paid out of the family compensation fund. This model once again highlights that the BZÖ is the family party. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from BZÖ have good ideas, we have good solutions, we have good suggestions, and we show how to really relieve families. In this context, I should like to make the following two requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e48364	Both motions for resolutions are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e48473	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e48494	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Instead of calmly preserving blood and living on normally in times of crisis, we now often have world-renowned protests and world-improvers overwater. Thank God – I believe – most of the people do not really get hurt, and thank God this Federal Government – and here especially Finance Minister Pröll and Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner – works with a calm and thoughtful hand. I think we're really in good hands. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A virtually new wave of nationalization, as it is desired in many places, would probably be the worst and most wrong thing we could do now. Rather, I believe that it is really necessary to have clear rules on the financial market. I also believe that it would be necessary to introduce a truly comprehensive financial transaction levy as soon as possible. This would be a good way of achieving new funding for the financing of the expenditure for the crisis. The economic packages adopted by this government are effective. In particular, I would like to highlight the example of thermal rehabilitation, which at the same time also helps our environment accordingly. I also think that the infrastructure offensive is very important to create jobs and also to improve the location of Austria as a whole. What is most important, however, especially in times of crisis: that you simply give new ideas, new opportunities opportunities and recognize them in good time. As an example, I would like to mention the energy cluster Güssing, where 15 years ago, in principle, there was only one district heating plant. Today there is a state-of-the-art research centre in which highly qualified professionals are also accommodated. The development of this research cluster, this research centre, was possible only because there was an EU Objective 1 funding classification and there was also research funding from both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Science. As a follow-up to this development, there are now hundreds of additional jobs in downstream areas, for example in the wood sector, also in the field of eco-tourism. I believe that this is an example of how to develop new regions with new ideas, new structures. New ideas are important, new ideas are promoted. That is what this government is doing with the two forthcoming budgets, and I therefore ask for its approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e48541	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e48564	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Oellinger, someone who, like you, takes part in demonstrations, where there are left-wing outcries, should really be a little behind with such round-ups. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The FPÖ has never organized a right-wing event anywhere and at no time ever! – I would like to make that clear. These additions, which come from you here, are absolutely unsustainable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What FPÖ did in the course of the EU election was an election event with our top candidate Andreas Mölzer and our party leader Heinz-Christian Strache. The violence, Mr. Ollinger, which came from the left, for this event was disturbed by linkschaots who were thrown there with stones, with bottles, with Molotov cocktails and with color bags. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] This violence came from the left – nothing came from the FPÖ! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Poor FPÖ is always being persecuted!]] The Freedom Youth Ring, Mr. Ollinger, also has no right-wing contacts. The Freedom Youth Ring is a lupen-clean democratic organization, and the FPÖ is behind this youth organization. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No matter where you look – that can be in Cologne, that can be in Vienna, that can be in Graz –: Violence always comes from the left; it is now proved. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Mrs Silhavy, this has nothing to do with being persecuted, these are facts! You just need to look at the police protocols. At this event, which Mr Ollinger referred to, last Friday in Graz, there was injury, injured on the FPÖ side. The people were thrown with stones, they were thrown with bottles, that's amusing. There were only injuries on our side. [[Abg. Oellinger: Say something about Hitler greeting!]] Also at the events in Vienna, the injured can be found on the side of the executive and on the side of the liberals. So be quiet, take it back! [[Abg. Silhavy: What about the Hitler greeting?]] You are someone who is quite, quite, very close to left-wing extremism, I would hold back at your place a little bit with such rounds. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it is not about Mr Ollinger – he should really come at his own door – but we are talking today about the federal financial laws and in this context also about the benefits for the families, and I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, especially the government parties, because I am always listening to how great these 13. Family allowances are: Yes, no question, that's a milestone, but that's a decision already taken in the last government period, then in response to the price. So this is not an answer to the crisis. To stress this as the success of this government, you have to say, is a little mogel pack. When you see that family benefits have fallen by 20 percent since 2002 and now through this 13. Family aid, so to speak, has been adjusted or a plus of 8 percent has been made, then you have to hold on, there is still a little bit missing. You could do even more in the area of families. [[Abg. Amon: You can do more and more!]] – Of course, you can do more and more, well that you have recognized it. Then we are on a good path, Mr Amon. [[Abg. Amon: More and more!]] Mr Amon, if you want to do more and more: There was this “perspective group” in the ÖVP – it was so called if I remember correctly – and there was already the family tax division in the conversation. – It’s just a shame that this has not even been remembered. Of course, this would have been a relief for the families, especially since we know that families are investing in the money they have more, immediately in consumption. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think that to relieve the families of giving the families more money in their hands is something that would really get out of the way and make sense. In this respect, however, I see a little creative ideas in this budget for the families. I have to say quite honestly, although I know of course that you can now pay care costs. It's a little sad again that the grandmother needs to take an 8-hour course in the future. I wonder why? – Now you say: Grandma, it's nice that you raised your children, but for the care of your grandchildren, you have to take a course!? – The grandmother is allowed without, but it is not bad in an intact family image, that the grandmothers – and you know that very well, Mr Amon, just women are often those with lower pensions – may get a little pocket money. [[Abg. Amon:... If you can speak of an intact family image, the grandma may also without...!]] That too is something that is quite right in an intact family life. But that the grandma has to do an 8-hour course, I can see it with a little bit of a crying eye. Overall, few ideas, a continuation – but if you, Mr Amon, say it can get better and better, then we hope for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e48747	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e48768	Mr President. High house! For the longer term, the international financial crisis has grown into an international economic crisis – the more important it is to make a security not only short-term, but above all sustainable. Municipalities and cities are the investors on the public side, and therefore, of course, especially in the crisis, it is necessary for cities and communities to invest more and more. Finance Minister Pröll and State Secretary Arbitrators have also already announced that local credit will also force their core business to finance municipal infrastructure projects in the interest of economic recovery. This measure is intended to make it easier for cities and municipalities to obtain funding for important infrastructure projects. The additional increase in the allocation limits from € 40 000 to € 100 000 makes it easier for the public to award orders quickly. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Friends!]] Areas that are of course very good for this are, for example, education, care and public transport, which are the new buildings and structural adaptations for kindergartens, all day schools, horte and nursing homes, but also investments in the rail and road sectors, because especially in rural areas, investments in rail and road are particularly important. In the district city of Liezen, for example, the largest employer has been shown to receive some international orders in recent months only because it is possible to travel on the track to the site. Many other establishments in the district will no longer have these possibilities, for the railways will be shut down in silence and quiet throughout the district. – Where there is no connection to public transport, there will hardly be any new businesses. What I want to say is: On the one hand, it is not possible to talk about strengthening rural areas and to give the cities and municipalities the possibility of financing their infrastructure projects if, on the other hand, there is a Styrian Transport Country Councillor who forgets that a district consists of several regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e48805	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e48826	Mr President. Representatives on the government bank! High house! Now I have to say to my previous speaker: If my children were sitting in here, they would have fallen asleep smoothly in so much dynamics and events that this government wants to implement – that is, almost nothing. What exactly is it about? . Our domestic young people are being overwhelmed by the current economic crisis with full force. We have over 50,000 unemployed young people. The trend is clearly rising. Very often, of course, this fact ends in the fact that orientation is becoming broad, drug abuse is increasing and violence is on the agenda. And that is exactly the crucial point. These are developments that are very worrying, which can really be described as catastrophic. In the government programme, the youth has been given almost no attention. The previous budget estimates also contain very, very little. Here are some examples: They spoke of a training guarantee for young people – an air bubble that has been crushed. In the end, this is nothing but a flat statement. What are the facts on the over-company training centres? – We were promised by the Minister of Social Affairs, Hundstorfer, that he would put up the squares on the one hand, and on the other hand try to make the wire to the young people, because there are so many places left. I've made myself smart in the last few days and I know there are still many places. The government is unable to find a wire to the young people in our country. Finally, I agree that the government simply does not take the concerns and fears of youth seriously anymore. Even in municipalities, countries, but also in the federal government, one does not take this matter seriously. If you look at Parliament as an example, eight apprentices are being trained here. So you could go ahead with a good example and create teaching places here more and more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What has been noted, especially in the discussions in the subcommittees of the Budget Committee, Mrs Marek, has also announced this: A club, a youth club growing in Austria, that is the Muslim youth Austria. Here, of course, more is distributed. [[Interlocutory remark by State Secretary Marek.]] - Yes, you said that, I took note of that. This is one of the most growing youth associations in Austria, and I do not wonder. We liberals will certainly not watch these developments doing nothing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The government can do a very good thing – I took an example with me –: our youth defamation. If I look at the close-to-governmental Raiffeisen medium here, namely the “Kurier” of yesterday, then there is a cartoon by Mr. Pammesberger, who sketches the youth of today’s “Coma-Saufen”, “Koma-Smouchen”, “Koma-Wählen”. [[The speaker holds a newspaper section with caricatures in the height]] If it is about making the cross with the right party, in our case at the FPÖ, then the youth is immediately diffused and presented as stupid. And that must not be it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another example: the ORF’s APA message to today’s “Club 2” with the title – well, listen to me! – “Is our youth going to the right?” [[Abg. Hoefinger: You left something out! Say something about the fourth drawing!]] Among other things, there is the sentence: “And why are left and green parties especially for the less educated” – and now it comes, you hear and marvel! – “and working young people so unattractive?” So this is really unheard of, if you are already young people with less education and especially if they are employed, presuppose that they are increasingly showing the train to the gate, in this case the train to the FPÖ. That's really a chuzpe! You have to say that clearly. Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you exactly why the young people are increasingly finding the way to the Free Party, which is quite simple: Because our youth on the one hand is full of the good people and the political establishment of today, because the boys realize that the government parties do not take their concerns and fears seriously, because the youth – and this is also a very crucial point – is developing an ever stronger home feeling and wants to defend our home country. Some may not want to see that, but that is a clear fact. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The right to home is a fundamental right for the Austrian people in general – and therefore, of course, for the young. This further immigration or mass immigration, as it has taken place in recent decades, will certainly not permit this fundamental right. Ladies and gentlemen! Albert Einstein once realized that every truth needs a brave one who expresses it. The FPÖ is ultimately the guarantee for these brave people, and we are also happy to make ourselves available as a protective wall for these young people. Here we will continue our straight path. We would certainly have adopted more budgetary means for young people and not this drops of advertising, as it is presented in the current budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to make the following motion in the representation of our family spokesperson Anneliese Kitzmüller:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e48939	The motion for a resolution has been tabled. I add the sentence in the first place: “The National Council wants to decide:” so that the matter is complete. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49152	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49174	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! – Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, I have to say that you have clearly misunderstandingd this with the tax deductibility, because you have led the grandparents again today. We have made this not for the grandmothers and for the grandparents, but for all those who care for our children. And of course that can be grandmothers and grandfathers. But I have to tell you quite honestly, my mother, who also looked a lot at my children, would never have done so that she would have said, I want to be paid for this performance. She was very happy to do this, just as I liked to look at my children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have listened very carefully to the debate this morning, and I must say quite honestly, the spokesperson of the Greens, Mrs Soushill, has said something that has shocked me very much, namely: Young people today are afraid because they don't know how long they have to work! So I have to tell you, I don't understand. We all try and worry and worry about how we can prevent unemployment at all – we have introduced short work so that we can give people employment so that we can secure the outcome – and you say young people are afraid because they don't know how long they need to work. I just don't understand. Yeah, don't they want to work at all? [[Abg. Singer: They need time to demonstrate!]] I don't understand at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Just now, in front of the EU elections, we should again bear in mind that Europe offers us huge opportunities. [[Abg. Singer: Working hurts!]] We have 27 EU Member States, we have the Mediterranean countries, we have the neighbouring neighbouring countries, and that is exactly what results in a huge market in which we can move. We then have a billion people, and precisely with this huge market we can offer markets like China, India or the USA Paroli. I think we should think about it and not about how long we will work. [[Abg. Singer: They don't want to work at all! They want to demonstrate!]] So as I said, I don't understand the greens at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49249	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49270	Mr President. Dear representatives on the government bank! High house! In the 2009 budget, child care money is reported at €1.16 billion and in 2010 at €1.17 billion. Although this amount is very impressive at first glance, we know that the child care allowance is burdened with some beauty mistakes. Reimbursement to grant the childcare allowance has now been repaired, but other shortcomings should also be considered. For example, the problem of young mothers having to make a decision on one of the three variants of the child's allowance has to be changed immediately after the birth of their child without the possibility of changing afterwards. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For young mothers, the time after childbirth is especially strenuous and associated with various problems. The changed circumstances of life are also often added to weekly bed depression, and the decision on one of the variants of child care allowance should be made only after a reasonable transition period and a time to get used to the child at home. After a few weeks or months, this decision is much easier. Furthermore, it must be clear to everyone that these models of single-parents are a major disadvantage. The question is, why are the months of self-sufficiency provided for the fathers to be neglected? Unfortunately, you have remained guilty of a final answer, Mrs. State Secretary. The claim of child care allowance to ensure a better compatibility of family and work and to create an incentive for family could not be fulfilled. There has been no change in the employment leave of two years, and the continued increase in the earnability limit has already been only a long-term overdue adjustment to inflation since 2002. In order to live up to the right of genuine freedom of choice, the limit of merit must fall to the full so that parents can freely decide whether they want to care for their children themselves or to invest the money in foreign care. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, the fact that the government has not sought to abolish the obligation to pay does only show a lack of ability to learn. We are also eagerly waiting for the announcement of what the new income-dependent childcare allowance looks like. They are already aware that families with more children will again be severely disadvantaged with this model. Ladies and gentlemen! I also see the planned free kindergarten and the mandatory last kindergarten as very problematic. Warnings First We have been for some time now that communities can no longer handle this burden. Increasing social expenditure on the one hand and declining allocation of needs on the other – this bill will eventually cease. The fact that the federal government then imposes additional tasks on the countries and communities is not sustainable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, not only do I see the partly clear system differences in childcare in the federal states as an obstacle, I refer above all to the legal problem. A mandatory kindergarten visit will be hardly constitutional. This also confirms constitutional experts. I hope we will soon get an answer from you. We expect more of you from family politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49350	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49371	More honourable ladies and gentlemen! In the budget chapter, there are many very important policy areas, including the Federal Property Society, for which the Building Committee is responsible. I would like to say briefly to the BIG that it is only in times of crisis that one recognizes the value of such institutions. It is crucial for the BIG's basically good business model to ensure that money is permanently flowing into the cycle. Only in this way can investments and new buildings be financed by the BIG in the long term. A very rapid and comprehensive support for the local economy by the BIG undoubtedly represents the new and advanced investments of € 875 million in the context of the economic package. These construction investments create thousands of jobs, as well as ensure better buildings for teachers and students. In principle, however, I would like to point out that these construction economic measures financed by the BIG in times of crisis would not have been possible without a BIG owned by the federal government. There have been votes, and if there had been a significant number of individuals between 2002 and 2006, the BIG would probably at least be partially privatised, and this 1.1 billion €, which can now be invested – i.e. the 875 million from the economic package plus the amounts of rent payments – would not be available. It is certainly not possible for private aid to be provided either, because they depend primarily on State aid. Finally, I would also like to thank the successful directors of the BIG, but especially the dedicated employees for their commitment, especially during this economically very difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49414	Next speaker: Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49436	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! My colleague Gabriel Obernosterer mentioned earlier in his statement how important the tourism industry is here in Austria. Above all, we should not only link the tourism industry with the fact that: Austria's budget of advertising or the general budget in this area is getting bigger, but to what extent we see it as an objective and to what extent we can use our activities in the field, in order to be competitive in competition for the guests, while at the same time raising the quality of our businesses to raise the quality of our offer. Successful examples in the tourism industry show that not always great measures or great advertising are necessary, but the offer must be consistent and appropriate. I can report it from my own experience. Where I am allowed to work modestly in tourism in East Styria – which is not very large, but with 1.3 million nights a fixed size in tourism – we see it exactly in the same area. We have the opportunity – and this is what the European Union offers us through EU-funded projects – to bring our businesses and our regions to the fore so that we really see the crisis as one of the greatest opportunities and can also use it to bring potential guests to the region or Austria. This is also an enormous economic factor and tourism is one of the most important employers especially for the labour market in rural regions. This also applies, of course, when it comes to raising youth employment, because many apprentices can be found in the tourism sector. I think it has been shown that we have the margin to use the crisis as an opportunity and to have positive signs with this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49484	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49505	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a 2007 parliamentary survey on climate change – opportunities and challenges for the Austrian tourism industry. Tourism is not only affected by climate change but also partly responsible for global warming. According to experts from the world tourism organisations, 5 percent of global warming is caused by tourism. Of these, about 75 percent are attributable to travel and 20 percent to the accommodation sector. In the meantime, not only has the energy expenditure in tourism companies continued to rise massively, but also the costs for it. The potential for savings is enormous, especially if one considers that in Austria the accommodation plants are highly equipped with oil heating and have a significant thermal need for the 19 000 plants. There is indeed a great need for action because it is not only about a large energy and cost-saving potential, but also about a very employment-effective potential. Important steps have been taken on this issue by the last and by this government; Promotions in the field of energy saving and climate-related support are already better bundled and are gradually beginning to take hold. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] However, what we need to make massive progress is the structure and new forms of consulting and supporting companies. We need more and better human resources, such as in Switzerland, where energy managers advise and find decisions across companies as information and trust persons, supporting support and providing support. We also need more focus in the countries and regions and information events with experts and with best practice examples. And we need more money for thermal rehabilitation in order to be able to make a decisive contribution to the achievement of climate change objectives. Finally, I would like to say that I welcome the fact that the 2009 “State Prize for Tourism” is under the motto of “Energy efficiency in hotels and gastronomy”.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49556	Mr Klubobmann Cap spoke on business. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49580	Mr President. They took over the Bureau and the chairmanship of the plenary session. I would like to make a statement relating to you, namely, that you are in the “New Free News ” of 21 January. May 2009 – also in your capacity as third President of the National Council! – to the President of the Israeli Cultural Community Dr. Ariel Muzicant have explicitly stated that this is the extended arm of the violent left mob on the streets, or vice versa, and I quote: “Why do many citizens ask themselves whether he should not be called a patriot of antifascist left terrorism”. § 283 of the Criminal Code regulates the criminal record of “judgment”. This is – I quote –: "(1) Those who publicly, in a manner which is appropriate to endanger public order, invite or incite to a hostile act against a church or religious society existing in the country or against a group determined by its membership to such a church or religious society, to a race, to a people, a tribe or a state, shall be punished with imprisonment for up to two years. (2) Likewise, it is to be punished who is publicly against one of those in the verse. The groups referred to above shall be sorely offended or shall seek to make them in a manner hurtful to human dignity.’ Whether your statement fulfils the legal record of the § 283 criminal code, of course, the independent courts have to determine, in particular, whether it is against “an domestic church or a religious society, ” or whether it is tried to “detest ” these“ in a way that is hurtful to human dignity. ” Of course, as our task here in the House is, for ethical, moral, democratic, but also parliamentary reasons, we have also put ourselves here in an internal discussion process with legal experts. We have assumed that the case-law of the Unification and Discouragement was filed, and that what has happened here corresponds essentially to that description in the Criminal Code. However, when assessing the highest officials of the Republic, we have not only criminal criteria, but also the principles of our democracy, our Bun to use desconstitution and the associated ethical values. I and all of us believe you hurt them to the greatest. Your role, Mr President, is not one of the third Presidents of the National Council, it is one of the highest functions to be assigned to the Republic. You need to know what you are saying, you need to know what you are writing, and of course you also have to take responsibility for it. We discussed this at an early stage and suggested that there should be a statement by all five parties. They also know personally that I am one of those who have always sought dialogue with all parties at the same level and that I will look for it in the future. That means that I too have thought very, very carefully, and we have really discussed this too. We therefore consider these derailments, which during the morning, after this debate neither a withdrawal nor an excuse, nor anything else has been followed, to be so important that we believe that there are consequences for this behaviour. We believe that the only correct consequence would be a relinquishing of your position as third president of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49641	Mr Vilimsky also spoke on business treatment. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49666	Mr President. High house! Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap, who is here trying to break a debate from the fence, I must oppose the following: I think the SPÖ is less concerned with legal experts, but more about their electoral lines. We all know that the SPÖ has a veritable problem, namely a series of election losses. The next constituency is threatening, and it's good to break such a theater off the fence. I can remind this House that the President of the Israeli Cultus Church has slandered and defamed my party, its mandates, its exponents in an incredible way. He has compared a representative of this House with Goebbels, he has compared the Freedom Party and its mandates to brown swamp; he has deposited incredible accusations in our direction. I believe that it must be the democratic right of every member of this House and thus our right to articulate us once again in the course of a political counter-valuation. We represent one fifth of the Austrian population! It can't be that someone who is in charge of a religious community here has a free letter for it, 20 percent of the legitimate mandates chosen here in an incredible way to defame beyond any consensus of an argument, and that we and you all have a muzzle basket, and no one here comes up with the idea – not one of you! – here reminding him that it is not an expression of a well-developed Austrian political culture and discussion to compare 20 percent with Goebbels and a brown swamp, and you all like the three monkeys sitting there, have closed eyes and ears and say nothing about it! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Buhrufe near SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens]] [[Unrest in the hall]] If you believe that, out of a politically difficult situation, you can instrumentalise such a sensitive question and that you can download it to a man of this House, the Third President, then it is blatant! If anyone's here after "Residence of office" you should consider, if you do not go the wrong way in your office and are not in the right place, whether you are not in the wrong direction in all these accusations that are raised against 20 percent of this House! Mr. Dr. Martin Graf as the third president has done what everyone elected is entitled to: he has articulated his opinion against a person who takes an active and daily step into the political will-building process. And if it is to be forbidden that one may still discuss, then tell it clearly, but do not suggest such arguments!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49769	For the comparison of the mandates of this House with the symbol of the three monkeys, I give Mr Vilimsky a call for an order. Mr Klubobmann's head spoke on the Rules of Procedure. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49802	Mr President. High house! I cannot hide the fact that I am deeply affected, first of all about the comments made by Mr Vilimsky. It's a horrendous thing! Here are people and no monkeys, Mr. Vilimsky! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] Mr Vilimsky, you are crossing borders here, which make it extremely difficult for us all to accept those rules of play and use which we have always used to in this House, for example, as in the election of the Presidents, to comply with certain rules – not written – and much more. They appear to have been consciously and provocatively crossed by the FPÖ. It is clear why you are doing this in the face of upcoming elections: Apparently, in this way you want to achieve a mobilization in your favor. – This is deeply objectionable and harmful to democracy. Shame on it! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] On the second subject, which Mr Klubobmann Cap has also referred to: I have already found more than clear words about this comment by the Third President Graf in a newspaper this morning, as I think. That is not to be said anymore. In fact, during the debate on the Rules of Procedure, we agreed to make a joint statement. This statement is in circulation for the vote between the political groups. I would like to inform you briefly of this statement. The first paragraph repeats the quotations; the second and third paragraphs read as follows: The undersigned dissociate themselves, on their own behalf and on behalf of their political groups in the High House, from all the political statements that are appropriate to bring people of different religious orientation or ethnic backgrounds against each other. Based on these values, the undersigned strongly condemn the above-mentioned statements. They are not compatible with the ethical or with the democratic standards that apply in Austria and must be respected and protected under common responsibility. These standards also apply in election struggles, i.e. times of sharp political debate. - Quote. Mr Graf, I ask you: Don't push it to the top!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49878	Mr Klubobmann's vice-president, Mr Ollinger, also spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49902	Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased with this statement by Mr Cap. I would also like to thank my colleague Head for having found clear words, but at the same time I would like to add: The time for petitions to a president who deliberately exceeds borders should actually be over, my colleague, head. It is not the case that misconceptions have been made here, but the statements of President Graf – and this is documentable – are exactly the same as those drawn by the Freedom Party and, on the other hand, by the citizens around Mr Graf and himself in recent years. For anti-Semitism, in this House, but also beyond this House, not a group of 20 percent voters should be proposed, because 20 percent of voters do not support anti-Semitism, nor do 90 percent of the population support it. [[Abg. Vilimsky: You're making fun of yourself!]] That is your responsibility and that of Mr Graf! [[towards FPÖ]] [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If you make anti-Semitic statements, you have not only to apologize for it, but: In every normal parliament the resignation is due, Mr Graf! Retirement is announced! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] When the topic of Usancen is presented here – I respect and respect Usancen – it is also said: The Uzancen to “give ” the third president of the third largest party has been there since the 1980s; before that there was no such thing. Of course you can discuss it, because: The use of not calling on the president of the British House of Commons to resign has taken place for 200 or 300 years – and now its resignation has been due. Your resignation, Mr President Graf, is already excessive. You know that. It is not enough if your employees are now disappearing from Parliament, but you too should do so by relinquishing!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49965	Mr Bucher, Mr Klubobmann of the BZÖ, spoke next to business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e49989	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, many statements – from whichever side they come – are to be considered as such in a very brilliant election phase, therefore: I believe that these statements also fall into this category, that just two weeks before an insignificant election in Austria, there is a strategy behind them. We do not want to interfere here, because I believe that extremism – we have always followed a clear line – is existing from the left and right, in Austria; it has always been provocations. [[Oh-noise with greens and SPÖ]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] I do not want to add that to certain persons or words, but I believe that it must be in all our interest to call extremism – no matter which side it comes from – here in our house objectionable and not welcome. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: What do you mean by Count?]] I believe that Mr Graf himself knows what he has to do, even knows what steps he has to take out of this conflict, and I trust that he will make the right decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50044	Mr Klubobmann has also spoken on behalf of the Freedom Party. Mr Klubobmann, I must say: It is Usance that in the course of a business debate on the agenda, only one representative of a political group is speaking; he has already spoken for the Freedom Party. If you do not have a request – a business treatment is of course, if a request is made not to be suspended from the Bureau – if you do not have a request, Mr Klubobmann Strache, I shall put forward the further debate on the Rules of Procedure, as stated in § 59 para. 2 GOG is held at the end of the agenda. Is there an application? - That's not the case. [[13:18:21]] We shall continue on the agenda. The next item is the speech by Mr Eßl. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50086	Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think it is necessary to discuss the subject of budget again. The current economic situation, in fact, does not allow for major airstrips, but there is no reason to relinquish, because we have answers to this crisis that is currently in place throughout the world economy. The 2009/2010 budget is, I believe, a useful and effective instrument to address this crisis accordingly. We also have an ambitious budget: Strengthening security, training opportunities for young people, intensification of science and research, in order to name only some of these objectives. The priority is, of course, the fight against unemployment, which we face with this budget. I should like to point out that Austria is very good at international comparisons, that we have a much higher level of employment than in other countries, and also a lower rate of unemployment. Nevertheless, it is necessary for our economy to be strong in order to cope with this unemployment. The budget, which is €380 million in 2008, will rise to €494 million in 2009 and ultimately to €481 million in 2010. But, of course, there are also measures needed to revive the economy: the economic recovery package I, the financial market stabilisation package, the economic recovery package II, tax relief 2009, the family package – an important matter –, the labour market package, the corporate liquidity strengthening law and the internationalisation offensive, to name only a few. There's no time to go into it in detail. In total, it is a comprehensive package of measures for a secure future for Austrians. Therefore, let us go about things offensively and let us remain optimistic for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50134	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50156	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is difficult for me to continue on the agenda, but still back to family policy. As a family spokesperson of the Social Democratic Party and also as a convinced family human being, I would like to point out the high priority that family policy has for this Federal Government. It is clear to me – referring to my previous speakers – that the location determines the point of view and that some things have been forgotten, especially when it comes to recalling government participations. Ladies and gentlemen, I myself live in a very colorful, very mixed and, as I see, very intact family. I feel very comfortable there, and everyone around me, too. But I know how diverse and how different family needs can be, what family realities and what measures are needed to support people. Important companions – including with regard to the debates held this morning – are mutual respect, mutual acceptance, reliability, sense of responsibility, loving dealings with each other and, above all, time. For this to be lived, ladies and gentlemen, it needs assistance and framework conditions. It is the declared aim of the Federal Government to enable reconciliation of work and family, to achieve equal opportunities for all children and, above all, to implement poverty reduction through financial relief. I know that work and income in particular are important instruments for combating poverty. However, it is also about the division of family work between partnerships, and it is about sexual justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of family-related issues in the government programme is taking place by train. We will be very serious, very transparent. I join those who believe that FLAF belongs to a new order, because from FLAF alone, around €6 billion are made available to the Austrian families, and it is important that this remains so. Supporting and accompanying the lives of families is our stated goal. It's not about Vormundung, it's about accompaniment, about offers. The implementation of the government projects will take place step by step – serious and quality.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50202	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50223	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In view of the difficult In the labour market situation, apprenticeship funding in 2009 is budgeted with a total of € 357 million. But the goal must be that every youth will have at least one training place in the autumn. In addition to the youth employment offensive and the training guarantee, there is the “Action Future Youth!”. It addresses young people between the ages of 19 and 24. The aim of the measure is to provide young people with either a new job, a qualification measure or a re-training measure within six months. The fact that this turnaround works has been demonstrated by the fact that 13 000 young people were already in employment in March. Regrettably, for the two youth hostel organisations, which are not fixed with certain amounts of funding, only a memorial value of € 1,000 is budgeted. They shall be financed exclusively from those funds that remain to the federal youth organisations after disbursement of the determined amounts of funding. Ms Marek, Secretary of State, informed us in the Committee that basic funding for youth organisations will increase, which means that project funding will unfortunately fall to this extent. Another critical point I would like to raise is that political and related youth work will only be more limited, as much of the funding for structural measures and moving for accessibility needs to be used. In principle, it is very positive that, in accordance with the Disability Equality Act, federal youth organisations are encouraged to allow for full access for all young people. However, it is negative in this context that the structural measures depend on the respective funding, thereby reducing the political and related youth work in the areas for which this money is intended. While there is support from the Federal Government for organisations that can prove that they do not have money available for the reconstruction work, this should also be divided into small steps for several years. There is then a budget project funding under the Building Cost Grant, but it is only budgeted at € 220 000. Anyone who has once dealt with measures for the improvement of the disabled knows that one cannot really finance a move or a conversion with these €220 000. On the following point, we all agree here in the House: that youth is our future. It is therefore certainly legitimate to wish for more money for the youth budget – and that is also my wish.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50287	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50308	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear listeners on the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen. The family budget shows a positive development towards more money for children. Especially with the planned introduction of an income dependent child allowance, the father's participation in parental care should increase. The final commitment Kindergarten is also an important step for family politics. However, it is precisely the family-friendlyness of the communities that is required, because the corresponding opening hours of kindergartens represent an important measure for the reconciliation of family and profession. The newly designed state prize for women and family-friendly businesses is already available today. He picks up companies that especially promote family policy in front of the curtain and naturally stimulates imitation. The promotion of adequate childcare is spent at €700 000 in this year. Seven applications have been received in 2009, five of which are already eligible. The creation of appropriate framework conditions and measures for a family-friendly economy are an important pillar to promote the compatibility of work and family life. I would like to quote an article from the “Little Newspaper” of the weekend, which appeared under the motto “Schüler machen Zeitung”. The student Julie from HLW St. Veit an der Glan wrote regarding the families: “It should not be ignored that the State of Austria is providing a great deal of financial assistance and is trying to support wherever possible.” We can certainly do even more for the families, but I think we are on the right track, and we are certainly not going to let the opposition make family policy ready.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50359	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. Also 2 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50381	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Around 0.1 percent of the budget in the family and youth sectors is spent on youth support. This means that important out-of-school, interconnected youth work can be done, but I lack clear signals in this budget for campaigns and project promotions in anti-fascist work. We are all required – and especially you, Federal Minister, and you, the Secretary of State, are responsible for youth. We Austrians have a National Socialist past. An open handling, a detailed processing, but also continuous reminders against forgetting are absolutely necessary. Time and again – and especially in recent months – there have been radical actions on the right, providing national and international headlines. The attack on the concentration camp commemorative ceremony in Ebensee and the lubrications on the outer wall of the Mauthausen concentration camp memorial site as well as the recent events on the occasion of a FPÖ event in Graz are only the top of the iceberg on right-wing radical activities. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not true at all!]] We need to do more education specifically among young people. The personal conversation in the families or in the circle of friends is certainly the most valuable means of prevention, but that alone will not be enough. Financial resources will also be needed for campaigns and project promotions. Ladies and gentlemen, we all bear a political but also a personal responsibility. Don't forget that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50422	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50444	Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As a former long-standing family spokesperson of my party, of course, I am particularly pleased that, based on the government negotiations, we have succeeded in agreeing and now budgeting to ensure that some important concerns for which I have made myself strong in recent years are actually implemented in the coming years. On the one hand, these are two very important measures to strengthen the father's participation, namely the income-dependent child money, which we hope will make it more possible for fathers to stay at home for a certain period of time through a higher child's money, and the father-month through which we want to enable the fathers to experience the child's first weeks of life more intensively with the child, and to enable children to reach a stronger bond with the father, which, of course, will also have positive consequences in the longer term. On the other hand, this is, not to be forgotten, the last kindergarten year, which will be free and mandatory in the future, which is a particularly important step from the educational perspective. I consider this step to be a step in the coming years to improve the early promotion of children. We cannot begin early enough to give the children a corresponding educational foundation for their later life. This is also a very important step towards family policy and education.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50483	In part, there are no further words available to me for the economy, family and youth. This is the subject that is being dealt with. [[13:34:49]] Science and research UG 31: Science and research
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50513	We are now entering the negotiations on science and research, division 31. Mr Karlsböck was the first to speak. Fixed speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50538	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Before I come to my actual remarks, I would like to say a few words about these immense blasphemies which we have just had to endure. It is an expression – I am saying this in all its clarity – as we have been thrown by the FPÖ in the last few days, on all levels. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact is: If you go up into the political arena – wherever you stand, no matter what the function – and distributes, just as that happened at the state party's day, where our Secretary-General has been bitterly accused, you also have to expect to be attacked and incite. It's not an extraordinary thing. Still to the accusations that have fallen here: You have to say, quite objectively: These statements were not anti-Semitic, neither in their content, nor were they meant to be. I would also like to maintain that in all peace and clarity. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now on the real topic: A few weeks ago, we discussed the university report here in the House and found that, as usual, the traditional weaknesses had been dealt with. These weaknesses were or are: low access rate, too long study duration, too low closing rate. We all agreed that these conditions should be largely eliminated in the context of budget creation. The more disappointing it is to see the result now: It is true that the economic crisis is a major factor in the fact that some of the funds planned are no longer available. However, in Sunday's speeches, the importance of science is always pointed out on every occasion. It is pointed out how important teaching and research are and what privileged treatment this matter has, but unfortunately in the hard political reality we have to note again and again that the opposite is the case. The share of the economy in research expenditure is falling dramatically. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: That's not true! How did you get it?]] I can only explain to myself the whole theater, which has been playing around the CERN project in the last few weeks, that one has to rework the budget internally and has tried to find as large a chunks as possible that are not particularly noticeable. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: Mr Colleague, that's wrong!]] CERN is binding resources, as you have said, Mr. Minister – supposedly 70 percent of the budget for international membership – but on the other hand, it is obviously something like a mother ship in the university's basic research. Obviously, this CERN project has a lot of reputation, a lot of prestige and, of course, other scientific results. We want CERN to remain secure in the future. That is why we are proposing a resolution: Against the background of the uncertainty of the Austrian researchers and our international partners, as a result of the inconclusive and hesitant attitude of the Austrian Federal Government, an unmistakable commitment to CERN membership is useful to clarify. The Members who have been signed therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second thing that causes me a little negative is the discussion that is currently taking place at the universities around the novelle of the University Law 2002. There has been a great excitement in university and higher education, because the ministry obviously keeps the content of this novelle closed, but there has been a lot of pressure on the public, which causes this displeasure. For example, it is heard that massive political and economic influence is to be exerted on universities if this university law novelle is actually to be decided, and that the university Senate is to be removed. At least that's what the university representatives say. On the other hand, the aim is to separate research costs on the one hand and teaching activities on the other. – This is another point that does not fit us at all, because we stand on the principle of research-led teaching. We have also prepared a request for this because the Liberal Group has also submitted a request to the Scientific Committee. We wanted to set up a subcommittee on this subject at the time, so that this matter can be discussed in peace. As it now looks, a Husch-Fusch action will quickly pass over it, and in the next Council of Ministers it will be decided and then put to the vote immediately. That is why we are opposed, and that is why we are proposing the following second motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Science and Research is invited to give consideration to the proposal to amend the University Law 2002; the Federal Government is invited to forward a government template to Parliament in such a timely manner as to allow for a comprehensive parliamentary discussion and treatment.” It would still be to say that this very matter is an extremely important one, because it would affect universities for the next few years massively – the organization and the teaching. We ask you, Mr Minister, to address this because we are not in principle in favour of rejection, but we are opposed to this being carried out at such a speed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50630	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported, are in an internal context with the subject of the debate and therefore also with negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50759	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr. Karl. Fixed speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50780	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Dr. Karlsböck, spoke about CERN, among other things, that it is something like a "mother ship" in basic research. To this “mother ship” I may make a contribution to you in a “standard” of 25. In May, Professor Kurt Zatloukal – he is a professor at the Pathological Institute of the Medical University of Graz – will present this CERN debate in Austria, among other things: "If, in the course of this debate, there has been an image damage for Austria, then certainly not through the most legitimate concern to negotiate participation in international projects adapted to national needs, but by adopting all the principles of a quality assessment based on scientific excellence and potential-oriented decision-making culture in favour of a very novel scientific populism in this country. This is not expected to be good for the future. It is only to be hoped that the way in which a highly effective decision was taken here will not lead to a model effect.” – To this is not to add anything, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dr. Karlsböck also meant that on Sunday's speeches the importance of science and research is constantly being addressed. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that we are also very much in speeches beyond Sunday. It is probably convinced that science and research are an important concern. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Science and research make a decisive contribution to the country's future capacity and are essential conditions for creating new jobs, maintaining Austrian competitiveness and sustainable economic growth. This requires modern, autonomous universities, the continuation of successful high school development as a complement to the wide range of university education and highly developed research institutions. And this is ensured by the budget debated today, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The largest increase in funds in the field of science benefits universities. This supports the profile formation and the qualitative development of research and teaching. The aim is to continue to increase the academic rate as well as to strengthen the autonomy and international competitiveness of the Austrian universities. This requires measures such as the further development of the University Law 2002, which was also addressed by my previous speaker. In connection with the planned further development of the University Law, there has been great uncertainty over the last few days. These uncertainties were triggered by a mysterious supposed university law novelle, whose sudden appearance can only be explained by the ÖH election. To this end, the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten) under the heading “ÖH-Wahl: Dispute debate on university access, inter alia: “There is an intruder for the election start – and the delivered Green Alternative (GRAS) and Independent Specialist Lists (FLÖ) with the publication of a alleged draft for the revision of the Uni Act: ().” This so-called bill is indeed an intrusion, but it is based on lies. This is not the university law novelle, which is currently being negotiated. Let me correct the following: The planned UG-Novelle will not increase the study contributions. An increase in study contributions has not been the subject of negotiations at any time. There will also be no comprehensive access restrictions. The open and free access to higher education is in no way questioned by the UG-Novelle. Access to Master's degree is also guaranteed. The real draft for the UG-Novelle provides that there is a Master's degree for each Bachelor's degree without access conditions. Mr Karlsböck also mentioned that there would be a separation of research and teaching in the University budget. – You will not find that in the UG-Novelle we are negotiating, Mr. Cot. This separation of the two budgets is defined in the government programme, but we still want to have discussions with experts. There will still be a discussion process involving both stakeholders and parliamentarians in relation to the planned University Law Novelle. However, we prefer to discuss finished and real designs – and not cheap fakes. We will also discuss comprehensively in the Science Committee about the university law novelle we are planning. That is why I appeal to the scientists of the other political groups, in addition to the five. An appointment for a Scientific Committee is scheduled for June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50871	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50893	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! This government is committed to setting accents on future issues, science, education, security. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: That's it!]] [[Demonstrative applause by Dr Bartenstein and Mag. Molterer.]] So it is, Mr Bartenstein, Mr Molterer! The fact is, however, that there is no figure in the budget. That's the point. And if I hear today's debate on extremism, My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, extremism from the left and from the right is generally rejected, but it is also differentiated to present: What has been said?, and it always remains a value judgment on many questions. The best basis to prevent extremism is education, education, science and research, is the point that you give young people a chance for the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If I look closer at this budget – with the Minister of Science at least able to do so – I have to say that the budget is all but rosy. Although the budget has an increase of 14 per cent in 2009 and 7 per cent in 2010 to € 3.7 billion, “eating” alone “eats” the tuition fees and collective agreements almost “returns” the entire plus. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Who then decided the sentences?]] If I consider, Mr Commissioner of the ÖVP, that you are planning to reach a 3 percent of GDP research path, I ask you how you will do this. This budget certainly does not succeed! Nor does this budget framework law succeed by 2013, because it does not contain growth but a stagnation. Nor does it succeed in the field of research and development, because the research rate of the economy – at least Mr Polt of the Joanneum says – will break in by 5 percent. Yeah, what does that mean, 5 percent minus? We have €7.5 billion in research and development expenditure in Austria, of which 48.6 percent raise companies. 5 percent of these are less than €200 million, which will be missing in Austria for research and development. And now I wonder, Minister, dear ÖVP, dear SPÖ: Yes, how is that balanced? – It will not be balanced! And that's the springing point: that you ultimately add little in these areas and do not accentuate them. But I also have to praise a small area – which is perhaps 5 percent of the budget – namely the technical colleges. We have a slight increase in this, and for that I will pay tribute. Less gratifying is the development of the Science Fund, where you will return €160 million by 10 percent less than in previous years. With the FFG, which is not in the competence of Minister “Gio” Hahn, but with Bures and Mitterlehner; we have a lean plus of 3 percent – that is too little too much – and at the Academy of Sciences there is even a very narrow minus. President Schuster said: Under €95 million – and 85 will be – we have serious difficulties. – That is the state of research and science in Austria. One is symptomatic of the policy of this large or rather small shrinking coalition, this government. You know Chernobyl? Do you also know “CERNobil”? This is the illustration of what is happening here in the field of science: ‘CERNobil’. What happened? – Uncoordinated approach, the competences spread across five ministries, too little money, one says, the other says hot, the own party leaves the minister standing in the rain, the Federal Chancellor says Njet to more money. [[OBJECTIVES]] – Under the line comes out: “CERNobil”, a chaos in this government’s science policy, for which, as I said, the minister can’t do anything because his own people leave him in the rain. CERN is quite serious to take, and CERN must also continue to operate in principle. I don't think it can be that because of €16 million of contributions to CERN, the entire science policy of this country can be put on the head. Mr. Hahn said it: If you don't approve of this shift and you don't give him any more money, it'll get tight. Should Faymann, said the Minister, be opposed – for more money – to what he does not wish, reworks would have to be carried out; this would then be at the expense of many young Austrian scientists. - That was on the 18th. May. ==References== May Minister Hahn said: Should the agreement of the coalition partner, SPÖ, but not, it should be clear that much of the research budget needs to be rethinked. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, start to rethink the science budget, because as it is, it will not last! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, to the UG-Novelle. The UG-Novelle takes place again without review. It is true that a brief debate will be held in the Committee on 30 November. In June, perhaps a second meeting of the Committee, there will be no experts there, as far as I am informed, to discuss what would be necessary to discuss with those concerned, from the students to the professors and lecturers. The experts are excluded. What remains is essentially a fixed paper, which in the background the Party Secretariats of ÖVP and SPÖ have chosen out. Whether that's what we want in the end, I dare doubt. Have the courage: At last, make real science policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e50990	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51011	Ladies and gentlemen! In the field of science budgets, too, it can be noted, if you are seriously analysed, that the Federal Government's intention, in the field of education, is to The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. On the one hand, this concerns the field of universities which will be provided with more resources in the next few years. This plus of resources for universities will already be felt in the first phase if the service agreements with universities are negotiated. This is just beginning; it will be negotiated and concluded with the universities in the next few months. In the negotiations on the UG-Novelle, we also agreed that the guiding principle should be that we want to equip universities in such a way that we will have more graduates in the future. Therefore, we also want to negotiate important new objectives with universities in the field of service agreements, which aim at improving the study conditions – a few points have already been raised. We want to achieve in the next few years that there is an improvement in the care relationship. We want to reach international standards here. We want to support measures to reduce the dropout rate. We want to improve the offers for working students, after we know that more and more students have to study next to the profession or in addition to studying a professional activity. And we also want to promote measures that support women, promote and support young researchers and that will help to ensure that more women will be in management positions at universities in the future. Let me also briefly say something about this very self-evident alleged draft, which has caused a little excitement in the last few days. At any rate, this draft was never the basis of our discussions on the actual UG novelle. I can't imagine which corner of this draft comes from, because it is quite contradictory and confusing in content. At any rate, we negotiate on the basis that we expect free access to higher education. We don't want access restrictions. We don't want to change the study fees rules. We don't want to raise the tuition fees. We want to make improvements for medium-sized projects. We want to enforce the 40 percent female rate and some improvements more. Tag Study fees: The budget, of course, also includes the funds to recover the loss of tuition fees from universities as required by the legal basis. It was reported yesterday that less than 20 percent of students still have to pay tuition fees at the University of Vienna, possibly even less. I do not think or I give up the hope that, in view of the fact that only a very small percentage of students have to pay tuition fees and that expenditure and income are no longer really in a meaningful relationship with each other, we may be able to come to a rational, meaningful solution in the next few years and at some point in time completely eliminate these tuition fees. The university budget also ensures the implementation of the collective agreement, which is now finally to be implemented. We have also done better in the science budget the important area of the specialist universities. There is a long-term increase in the funding of study places. The vocational colleges, which are a particularly important area of vocational training, the vocational colleges which already offer a very high degree of vocational training. It is particularly important in times like these. In the field of research, it is already necessary to recognise that it has succeeded in providing more resources in the future, which is important now to ensure and ensure the research activities of researchers at the moment, thereby also making a very important investment in the future for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51095	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. Set speaking time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51117	Mr Dr. Count! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Let me just say something about Usancen in the first place. Today this word has been used several times, and I think it is a relief to think autonomously, to act autonomously, to form opinions and to express itself here. I think it's a consolation to be rigid and comfortable. I'd like to say: If a party and a high-ranking representative in a presidency are constantly, frequently and increasingly left under it, and this party is then evocative that others say it smells miserable, and that should not be so, it will be grotesque. Dr. Graf, I think the summit is over! It hurts Austria, and I think President – yes, you can laugh quietly, others don’t laugh. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: It's bad if you talk like that!]] No, it doesn't hurt. That's what everyone knows: A Presidency does not serve to harm Austria and the Republic! [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] – You can say what you want, then keep laughing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As we are now talking about research, universities and education: There are uses that are not so great and wonderful. Indeed, the government has found all its concepts and all its budgets wonderful and great. I still let a grain of truth apply: They have defended and preserved budgets, so that universities fall into nothing of this crisis, so to speak. But at the same time, you demand from the university – from Gehrer – world class, internationality, competitiveness. That is, you put the latte up relatively high, but the university doesn't say how it should and can jump. Our budgets are compared with those elite institutions, much less with those international institutions. I believe that if science and universities are obliged to serve the truth, it would be appropriate to say that these budgets cannot meet all expectations. Then you can talk about it. We will not praise, but at least we will acknowledge honesty. What is not allowed to happen is to keep something very tight. We read the budget. Everyone says it won't be enough to achieve the goals. But what if the budget is suspended from 2011 to 2012? Everyone knows – the Wifo, the IHS, all the experts, including most Members, I hope at least – that then there will have to be drastic savings measures to reduce the debt. Why don't you talk about how the university and research are doing? Will these savings packages apply to universities and research or not? – If so, you have to say, of course, that research is something like a continuum that doesn’t turn up and down like a light switch, you have money, you don’t have money. It doesn't work! That's what all the experts say. Let us commit ourselves to the truth and discuss these problems! Let's not beautify her and let's not put her under the table either! Penninger, who was always carried around as a sign of something great on a silver tablet of the government, says quite clearly – I even say, a little obscene –: If we don't get more than now, the government should not deceive itself – according to the sentence quoted – then let's go! I tell you, Penninger has an institute and staff where almost all members of the university could cry for luck if they had only half of it. At a congress, Penninger was asked by university members: Where do you get the good people? How can you afford a former Max Planck director? His answer was: I'll ask him what he costs, and I'll pay him! – The university isn't doing so well. Austria does not use it if we have ten, 20 show researchers or three, four institutes to say we have picked up internationally. That's not it. We also need the width. I don't think it's good to get press articles now – even if “the press” is not the worst zeritation – to prove whether CERN is good or wrong. If Austria cannot afford €16 million for membership and a Member says: This budget must not put the science budget on the head!, this shows the whole tragedy. Our science budget should have been on the head for 30 years! The contributions were always high. And why can't we afford it now? This is a symbol of the not exactly rosy situation of universities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Whether this draft was a fake or not, I think it dares to say: That was the bad students before the OH election! Such a paper with hundreds of quotations... – No, I could not have done this work. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Is it yours?]] I don't have the profession to do that either; I say so. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You didn't do it either!]] - Yeah, that's right. That's not a shame, I'm not a lawyer, and I've never worked in the ministry. [[Call the ÖVP:Do you want to?]] It's probably too late for that. The invitation has not yet been made if you want to. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] But let's talk about this: Students never have the ability to write this, nor the time. But to do students as down as one of the AG presidents has said – they should not discuss the Iraq war, society, but better scripts – is an increase of students. If the ÖH and the students are only more script producers who are not allowed to express themselves on social policy, I find this a tragic and primitive picture of students, and they should not be allowed to do so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now again to the UOG. I told you that a law that motivates people to change the environment of universities that determines the lives of university members could be free if you recognize that nowadays – and there you can quote the MIT and Harvard and Berkeley and Princeton and everything, even ETH Zurich – no longer soloists and some ordinations about the resources of a university lonely and alone with some university councils, but rather a team of scientists who get the best arguments to fight, but who are looking for anyway. If this is not the case in this law, if young people are not allowed to talk again, if only individuals decide again, then I must tell you as a doctor and as a naturalist: There is no ‘ordinary gene’. The genetic equipment of the scientists is identical, and the hierarchy or function and the office should not alone determine who is worth how much. It was also during the occupation of the Federal President's Office, in the case of ministerial occupations not essential that one be a proper professor, and it was not every Federal President, every minister and every minister bad. Please let go of the reins here, there will be no anarchy! People will be more creative, more powerful. Think about the indicators to be examined – such as a higher knowledge balance, performance show. What is knowledge? – Many do not have this definition. I can remember many calling in the ministry and asking: How am I supposed to make a balance of knowledge, what is that? – And they got the answer: You'd better know that yourself! Mr. Federal Minister Hahn, I hope you know some things best and do the best for the university. But then in a dialogue that is bound to the truth, and truth means not to falsify reality, but to see it as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51254	On a point of view, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Hahn, spoke. I'll give him this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51275	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the listening benches! This debate shows the entire heterogeneity of the scientific landscape. Indisputable is – this is also recognised by the opposition – and I am pleased that there is indeed more money for science and research. Compared to last year by 15 percent more, and next year there will be an increase of 10 percent. But it is also right – I am not saying that, because one has to make “face reality” – that the opportunities in the European, international science landscape have become so diverse and large that every country is required to make decisions in the direction in which the priorities have to be made in the coming years. Even if we had much more money, we would not get around this need to set priorities, because we simply had a lot more options. Take a look at the development of the teaching of framework research programmes at European level alone. The sixth framework research programme was funded from 2002 to 2006 with just over €19 billion, the current €54 billion from 2007 to 2013, and now the first discussions on the eighth framework research programme begin. Here is the vision to double this amount again, i.e. to go to over 100 billion €. The positive consequence of all these efforts is that there are a wide range of projects, initiatives at European level; Tag Research Infrastructure Map. On the shortlist there are almost 40 such projects. It is important to consider what are exciting options for Austria, in which we are to participate, not only in scientific disciplines, but also in social science, in medicine and in medicine. In technical projects. The possibilities are multi-layered, and it is also important to consider: How can the benefit be maximum for the scientific and research location in Austria? I am grateful for the example of Penninger. There has been something grandiose successful by bringing Professor Penninger to Austria, under the era Schüssel, by creating an infrastructure. But I also tell you, Dr. Penninger gets €7.5 million from Austria – this is a good third of what we give to CERN – he employs 160 highly qualified scientists from 40 nations, and you are perfectly right, we are world leaders in this field. So there are also a few other areas: Anton Seilinger, Rainer Blatt, Dr. Superti-Furga, Professor Heinz Engl with his mathematics, so the top institutions of the Academy of Sciences are all given together as much as we do to CERN. I never said that there is no good scientific work at CERN. I said – and for that I am – that we are faced with needs, even if we have much more money that we have to decide where our commitment is better. It was my idea to get out of there to get on with many other projects. – This is not possible, therefore we have the need to redesign this research budget, because we have set it up for a five-year period. I would also be glad to say that I should not age for 20 million euros a year. Such entrances can only be made if you operate in other resorts of different sizes. This is not the case in research. But I also say: We Austrians always tend to put our light under the sheffel or suffer from latent inferiority complexes. These days, even a colleague gave me an interview by the German colleague Schavan in the “spiegel”, almost as an aid mémoire, in order to rise more on the gas in terms of research expenditure, in relation to what Germany is spending on. The German Minister announces that he will pump €18 billion in research and development by 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken this into account: Only the current research path with an additional €950 million more in this legislative period means high expected by 2019 – I assume that if the economic situation is better again, it will be more – means that up to 2019 will be €1,9 billion. If we always assume that we count Germany with the factor ten, then we are with the research path we are showing today, about what the Germans will decide shortly and what they will be celebrated for throughout Europe, how powerful they are investing. Respect for the activities in Germany, but we do not underestimate or ignore what we do in our own country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We give 40 percent more than in the past legislative period. I admit that in the summer of last year we had other growth paths in mind, but in total we have a solid growth, and that is more than in most other European countries. My Romanian colleague, who is sitting next to me in the Council, told me that Romania is halving the research budget. This is not about growth that we are discussing, but about halving the research budget. We see this situation in many other European countries. Let's not make mevulve of the announcements from the USA either: In the next two years, the Americans are a lot in research and development, but they are now predicting that they will be drastically reduced in the sense of fiscal consolidation with investment. This is exactly the difference to the budget planning that we have made. And that's where I'm with you, Dr. Dr. Green forest: Research policy needs reliability, needs sustainability. We do not rush up in the next two years to re-run, but our goal in budget making was stability, reliability and planning. In the field of research, Jojo policy is not stated as likely not at all, but as it is the worst. Therefore, we need predictability, and predictability means that those responsible for research projects know what to expect in the next three, four years – we are planning the budgets for five years. Therefore, it was a great goal to equip the FWF with a high ordination, with reliability, predictability and planning. The same applies to universities. We look at the 2010 to 2012 service agreement. All of us who work in this area would wish us more, but I believe that the result is, in the light of the general economic situation, a solid one with which the universities – in camera cameritatis you like to admit – are satisfied and accept that the government's promised priorities have actually taken place here. It is also important, and since I also ask for flank protection to cover back, to advance whatever you want to do, we need in the field of research and science a restless commitment to excellence, to quality assurance and to the elite – I am not afraid to take the word "elite" into the mouth. This requires a broad base on which appropriate tip is possible. This balance – for example at the universities – of open access with simultaneous quality assurance, including the continued selection of students and doctoral candidates, is the intelligent, the smart mixture that it should strive for. Again: Just a research budget, a science budget is constantly on the move. But we work together to keep the opportunities open for the Austrian scientific and research site open, that we are open to new things and are also ready to provide occasionally older ones to open up new things for the future. This is necessary, because if we also stand in the structures at the status quo, then others overwhelm us, which are clearly moving. We should and must move, because one thing is clear: Knowledge creates work. If you look at the unemployment statistics, you see that graduates of vocational colleges are only 0.4 percent unemployed, graduates of universities are up to 2.9 percent unemployed, graduates of a teaching being almost 7 percent unemployed, but those who only have compulsory schooling are 18 percent unemployed within the cohort. This proves: The better education, the better training, the better the prospects, but the better the basics to find and revitalise a new perspective in a personally difficult situation. We must therefore invest in this area: in science and research. I believe that the Federal Government's objective of setting priorities here has been successful in all the difficulties of the economic environment, and I can support you. invite this way together with us to go with me. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51409	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51430	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! It's true what Minister Hahn said, Austria has picked up, partly overtaken. If Statistics Austria proves that in 2009 we will probably spend 2.73 percent of our gross domestic product on research and development, we have at least been able to open up to the Germans if they do not even overtake; the same applies to the average of EU and OECD countries. Previously, Green Forest has rightly said that research cannot simply be turned on or off; the Penningers of this world come to us not for three months, but hopefully for a long time, and others have come as well. This means that continuity in research policy and, of course, in the budgeting of research is a top priority. Now we know that research and development expenditure in the private sector – unfortunately, but nevertheless fact – tends to be rather procyclic and that, although only at a small percentage, the R&D expenditure of the private sector in this country is falling slightly; it will be slightly more than 1 percent this year. It is particularly important that the public budget, i.e. the research budget, is now opposed. That's trying to reach Hahn as much as possible, and I mean he'll succeed. Now one may cry in recent times, as it has gone up even more economically, or even more, at all. Of course, the 9.4 percent that we increased the budget on average in the years 2004 to 2008 cannot, but that we will increase total expenditure by 1.8 percent this year, which is above all the share of the stronger public sector, and this is ultimately also the way that leaves us open this intermediate target of 3 percent for 2010 and then 4 percent R & D share of GDP for 2020. Innovation is – this is undisputed – a growth driver. Important at this time are investment in infrastructure and also in the equipment of industry, but almost more important are investment in research and development, in education, in innovation. Innovation is perhaps the most important instrument at all that we have during the crisis to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It is true that the economic packages decided by this House have a strong research and development share. It is good that in this country we have overcome the long-standing separation, these long-term graves between applied and basic research de facto, which is no longer available. I believe that the structure of FFG/FWF has proved itself very well, and I express my hope that there may be a lot of things to do with what is going on in ownership; I am thinking of FFG and AWS. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we came from far away, 1 percent was ten and more years ago, now it is 2.73 percent. Austria is a country that will be a high-paid country now and after the crisis. So we're going to be an expensive country. In order to be more expensive and expensive, we must be better at inter- national competition – and better, it only succeeds through innovation, and you can innovate if you invest in research and development first. We do, and there we are on the right track, even in difficult times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51481	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51503	Mr President. High house! Mein Ladies and gentlemen on the crowd lines! Science is the basis of the success and well-being of tomorrow. That's what we've heard, and we're joining this. We have often heard it, not only in Mrs Karl's speech, whether on Sunday or even under the week, but what happens to us is to act after these speeches. Mr. Federal Minister Hahn, we would also like to join your commitment to the elite, but we would also like to make the same confession to the base below this elite. Let's take a look at some of this base. The colleges are really a success story since they exist. We had 14,338 students in 2001, and in 2008 we already had more than 31,000 students, that is, a multiply. Every year there are more graduates; we have a record number of graduates again this year. We have vocational courses, and the special feature of these colleges is the better social mix than we have at the universities themselves. We have the situation there that 63 percent of the parents of first-semesters have a compulsory education or training. That means, that's really a dream institution we need. However, since the definition of the financing of these vocational colleges in 1993, the federal grant has not been adjusted. The consumer price index as a comparison has increased by 34 percent, but funding is still at the same point. There would be a better confession on the part of the ministry to this base under the elite quite well. Now to the universities themselves. I would like to join Mr Groenewald in saying: I, too, have not written any draft laws, nor do I have the time. I was only surprised that Green students, VSStÖ and others are intensively involved in matter and are, for example, opposed to access restrictions. If you look at this in some areas, such as the medical community, you can see that there is already a little explosive inside, because we will have a medical shortage in Austria over time – as you have said, Mr. Federal Minister. If at the same time we have access restrictions and intensifications in the medical field at the same time, we create a responsible situation in the final effect. I fear, then, that there will be a lack of education policy. That is, on the one hand, we have no admissions or a check-out after a few semesters, and on the other hand, the students may then be allowed to pay even more for the whole thing. This is a situation that we cannot imagine at all. We ask: What's the point of that? Is this government really still the servant of the people? Or does that mean that the schools, the gymnasiums or the vocational schools below are not really trusted to train reasonable graduates who are also mature? – We cannot really imagine that either. We do not believe that it makes sense that university professors are, so to speak, judges on the career or training of young people. These decisions should be made much earlier and much more efficient, namely at the schools themselves, but certainly not at the universities! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A word about the fees. I like it when Mrs. Karl makes a confession – your representative of the ÖVP – that no fees will be paid. [[Abg. Grillic: Who?]] That adapts in principle and in principle. I am glad that it is in the Minutes, and if it remains, I shall continue to be pleased. But I don't like the schedule for the whole legislative novel – whether it's available or not. This is supposed to enter into force in October of this year. – Please, since December you could have been dealing with it! What about parliamentarianism, where is there a draft that can go into consideration?- Oh, my God! The universities complain that they do not get drafts to review. I know that in the evening the lazy person is diligent, only a little more work can be trusted with Parliament in this regard, and above all, Parliament could be challenged here. You also have the time to do so, Minister of the State, Hahn, because if last Sunday you made a two-sided listing in the "Press on Sunday": Vienna should become more innovative, then I think this is a dangerous threat in this context.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51561	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51583	Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When I was preparing for speech, I actually wanted to set three priorities. For the university law, one more thing: It has, of course, already been reviewed. It was already under review and will then be sufficiently discussed in Parliament and in the committees. I would also like to say something briefly, but will not do so today, even in the field of vocational colleges. Just so much: Since the colleges have been established, there is now the first adjustment of 13.7 percent, which is indeed remarkable. Among other things, a framework law should be consulted on external quality assurance, including the whole of the higher education sector. That is, I believe, the crucial criterion, of bringing our universities and universities where we want them. I would also have liked to address a third area, but there will be another possibility. I am convinced that you can succeed in allowing us to take a decisive step in the field of teacher training, which is quite, very important for the future of our children and thus also our country. If we are teachers and school classes, I am not concerned about the subject, Mr Graf, who has already been working on us today, and I must mention it in a debate on education, science and education. Among other things, I can welcome the 4b class of the main school Wies from the district of Deutschlandsberg in Styria. I am also very happy to do so because I am a Member of Parliament as a Vorarlberger, who always leads school classes through the High House, as the others do. We will then also come to this hall, and I will try to explain a bit of what democracy is, what is happening here, that laws are passed here. Then there are often so critical questions that have already occupied us in the past: How is it possible for Members to say such things in there? I then always defend with teeth and claws the opinion that in democracy the word cannot be put too much on the scale that one sometimes has to argue more fiercely here too that democracy lives on the fact that the Parliament lives from the discussions and from the sharp contributions. But as far as recent developments are concerned, Mr Graf, I can no longer explain this to any student, I cannot explain it to anyone anymore. I am one of those Members of our group who have not chosen you. [[Demonstratative condolences with representatives of the Greens.]] I didn't choose you for other reasons, for example, because of what you did in the area of Seibersdorf. You know the Court of Auditors reports better than I do, you were the driving man there, we know what happened there under your aegide. And there were also many other things that prompted me to say to this man, so Dr. Graf, I don't give my vote, but yet – so far – I have respected the result that you have become the third president. But I can't do this with today's day! I say quite frankly to you, I find it difficult to go to the Scientific Committee when you are chairman there. I do not want to deal with a man who represents such opinions! I did not believe that you actually formulated and said that in the comment, but I have to say that again at this point, because now many young people are sitting in the gallery and should know what we mean, when we say that we have now left the edge of democracy, the barrel has overflowed. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Your opinion!]] I'm allowed to quote this briefly: "Renewed Arm of the Lord" Muzian, the Lord "Musicant is the violent left mob on the streets. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Musicant! That's embarrassing!]] With his insults, the President of the Israeli Cultural Community creates a climate of political brutality, which is why” – and now you are fully aware of how it corresponds to your kind, Member of the Count, in the conjunctive – “as many citizens ask whether he should not be called a patrimony of antifascist left terrorism.” If this is still possible, Mr Graf, within the framework of the rule of law and in a democracy, then everyone must ask: [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: No more to be said!]] Where has parliamentarianism developed? [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: That must no longer be said!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Mr Graf, I ask you from this point of view: Step back, also as chairman of the Scientific Committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51678	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Strutz. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51700	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The field of research and science is certainly a pillar and an investment in the future together with the education sector, and it is good that we discuss this in detail in the High House, because it is really about, as you have also recognized as the Federal Minister, that we must set priorities in an economically tense situation. Mr. Federal Minister, Mr. Hahn, you said that every country must decide which priorities it sets in the field of research. The problem we have is that this federal government does not know what priorities it should set. You yourself have argued with good arguments, which you have repeated today, for an exit from CERN and represents the line that these funds should be used more for projects that would be more eligible for funding, which perhaps would bring Austria and the research location Austria more. But, Federal Minister Hahn, you have been rebuffed by your Federal Chancellor and your coalition partner. And the line you yourself requested as Minister for the country of Austria, we cannot see here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you say we can't hold on to the status quo, then you have to note that this budget that you are presenting to the House is going to continue this very status quo. CERN will be rewritten! The priorities you have requested will not be set. It is always the same strategy pursued by this Federal Government that we have seen this in the field of education: First of all, the Minister of Finance, who gives to the ministries, we have to save, then the courageous ministers come, whether it has been the Federal Minister of Finance Schmied or the Minister of Science, Hahn, and take a step forward – and then the coalition partner comes back and whistles them back. And the result is that under the line everything gets more expensive. This cannot be education policy; it cannot be science and research policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To the numbers, because you've so highlighted the plus here, you have to say one thing: In 2008, the universities demanded a budget increase of €600 million annually. Their claims were then reduced to €400 million because of the poor economic situation. But this budget does not even provide this €400 million. For the year 2010, the universities will receive €355 million more. With this sum, you will not be able to resolve, in particular, the major infrastructural shortcomings that we have. Rector Christoph Badelt was right to criticise when he says there is a great difference between the sum that is absolutely necessary for universities and the amount actually granted to them. The rectors would want and also need to be much more needed for the development of study places, for the improvement of infrastructure and investment in research. One word about the tuition fees, because Badelt correctly notes that it would have been more efficient to maintain the tuition fees, but about half of the amount spent on replacement, for the removal, would have been used to improve the funding of studies. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That would have been it, because in fact we could have reduced the social barriers that exist in the universities de facto and allowed people to be more enthusiastic about their studies. Even if the representative of the SPÖ, Mrs Kuntzl, comes out here and says that we do not want to limit access, the fact is: Access is limited! Or: The SPÖ says we want to raise the rate of women! – Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, who has the responsibility in the university sector over the years? Who are your representatives who can increase this rate of women? – “We want”, “we want”! - Why don't you do it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kuntzl.]] I can say one more thing about the actual situation: Many of the representatives who have spoken here today should not have been at a university for a long time, because those who know the infrastructure and the facilities in the audiences at the universities cannot really speak of good and optimal conditions for the students. [[Call the SPÖ: You already!]] And one more thing because we are in the EU election campaign: Let us look at how we are actually in the field of research, where the financial resources are based on gross domestic product, in the European comparison: It is not only because of the economic situation that the private sector funds are being reduced, but because of it we are not in the middle, but at the end of the day. Even worse is that in Austria the drop-out rate of the students is almost the highest, the second highest in Europe. That's where we have to ask ourselves: Why do so many young people quit their studies? Why have we seen in Austria, in the European comparison, such a low academic ratio if everything is as good as the government representatives have tried to present? It's all right! We need more financial resources! And those priorities, that set of priorities, Mr Minister, which you have called for, we are missing very much in this budget and in this budget approach.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51782	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51804	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! For all those who have read the budget carefully, it is clear that this budget sets very clear priorities in the field of research. [[Call at BZÖ: Where? At CERN?]] In 2009, €3.4 billion is available to the Science and Research department, which is an increase of 15 percent; in 2010 another 10 percent more. In total, this is €1.2 billion more compared to the base 2008, ladies and gentlemen. This is a clear policy for the future of the Federal Government! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Science and research need multi-annual, stable and reliable funding. This course was initiated with the instruments of service agreements and university autonomy. The universities already had their budget security until 2009. The present budget lays the basis for creating strategic planning and profile creation by 2013. It is important to ensure stability and continuity in excellent research institutions, especially in economically challenging times. For this reason, for example, the funding of the FWF with basic research for the next five years has been put on a safe foundation, with €800 million. It is also to be welcomed that for the first time, the largest non-university research institution, the Austrian Academy of Sciences, has succeeded in putting a global budget on better strategic legs. This supports excellence research, in particular profile education, but thus it is also possible for the ÖAW to cooperate even better than before with the universities in the field of excellence research and cluster education and set priorities. With the collective contracts for university staff, you, Federal Minister Hahn, have managed to set another milestone. And we are very grateful to you for the sustainability that you have not given up together with the managers in the higher education sector, but that you have remained, because this was also an important last step to ensure the modernity and international competitiveness of our universities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The dual training is supported in its permeability to the tertiary area with the model “Teaching and Matura”, but above all with the model of the technical universities. If colleagues have criticized the lack of increase here, I do not know why they do not find the 13.7 percent increase in the budget. I would therefore also recommend that the budget be read more carefully, because this year it will be ensured that the funds for each course will be increased by an average of 13.7 percent and that all current courses will be secured. We all hope for an even better budgetary development in the coming years, in order to be able to move forward further rapid growth. Strengthening order research and improving interfaces and transfer facilities between universities and business will be an important tool. That is why cooperation between the Federal Government, the Länder, the Communities, the Economy and the universities is so important in order to work together to create clusters in order to provide together the necessary impetus for society and for the economy, as that means the fastest return to economic growth. Our university autonomy has become an international success model, and we all receive delegations who are looking at and orienting on our Austrian model internationally. The performance agreements, as mentioned above, have been proven, but performance agreements are further developed, and this development is provided for in the quoted UOG-Novelle. In the past, it has been shown that autonomy cannot be called popularity, but also that university autonomy needs boundaries where social progress is not sufficiently taken into account by universities. It is therefore very welcome that the University Law will set the rate of 40 percent in the future and that the universities will therefore have to reach the 40 percent as quickly as possible in all bodies to be nominated. If we assume that 57 percent of the Maturants, 58 percent of students, are female 53 percent of university graduates, then it is not acceptable that only 14.2 percent of professors are women. But in the next five years there is the greatest possible way of action, because in Vienna alone, every second post is set free, every second professorship is re-occupied. Therefore, this UOG-Novelle is particularly important in order to enable equality and equality in the field of scientists. The budget also focuses on the situation of the Medical University in Vienna and around the AKH. More than €22 million will be invested in the construction of the research building of the research center CeMM, the Center for Molecular Medicine. In the course of this, however, it is also necessary to ensure that scientists can actually devote themselves to research and are not ultimately overly burdened with basic medical care by staff bottlenecks. The UOG will therefore also focus on this area. There, the hospitalists are called upon not only to support research personnel but also to use the funds that come from the federal government properly. Vienna receives over 50 percent of the Federal Research Fund. It is therefore a great concern to me, as a Vienna MP, that these efforts of the Federal Government find even better rainfall in the city of Vienna and the city of Vienna Vienna also doubles these funds with its national and municipal resources, in order to achieve this interplay between the Federal Government, the Land and the Communities and the economy, so that in economically difficult times science gives impetus and the framework of policy for a rapid overcoming of our economic challenges, for a rapid boost for the economy and society. Mr. Federal Minister Hahn, thank you for the future in the Federal Capital! Among other things, your merit is that it has succeeded in setting the framework. But it is now up to the city of Vienna to set appropriate priorities.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51909	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. Speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e51931	Mr. Minister! High house! Dear students! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Hahn, you have today praised the fact that Germany's research expenditure is in any case so high that Austria can take part and play a similar role in this league. - But I think you forgot something. You have forgotten the starting level. And if you look at the rating of innovation leader in Europe, the European Innovation Scoreboard, then it is quite clear that Germany is at the top of the front, and in comparison, Austria is only one successor. Allow me to compare – not completely green – the following: This would be like you would assume that if you accelerate from 120 to 130 km/h, you will need the same energy as with an acceleration from 80 to 130 km/h. And that's not so! – Finally, we are here in Austria at this level and need to invest much more to be at the front in order to actually become the leader of innovation. If you look at the situation, you know very well: We need structural reforms in Austria and a very large rethink. And the big question that arises at this time is: How do we get to know as quickly as possible? society? – To be clear, in all the efforts made in the field of research, the clear result of an analysis by the Economic Research Institute is that the resources are too few for this. There are several aspects that have been addressed, and one of them, Minister Hahn, is that there is a lack of focus in the field of excellence. You said earlier, you want the unconditional restraint for the excellence. But at the same time, if you look at the budget, you have to find that there is no dosage for the cluster of excellence. Mr. Federal Minister, what do you say about that? You make yourself here, even after the weeks of discussions, and say you are for excellence – but then the money is missing! There's got to be something in the arse! It must agree with the spoken word with the budget that is available! Another situation in the field of innovation policy, which we know is that it leads to lower yields, is if the best minds are missing. And you know exactly: If you look at the educational orientation, Austria is clearly a researcher country of immigration. And there you also have to set the appropriate priorities, allowing access for the best heads. If you talk to the top research institutions, the universities, then you know there are shortcomings that can be solved. This is not just a question of money, but also a question of orientation. If you are moving forward on the topic of “Internationalisation”, I think there is one question to be answered in the context of CERN. Finally wanted They use CERN funds to finance other investments. What does that mean in concrete terms? What this means, for example, for participation in this large ESFRI project, for participation in European research infrastructure, where there is a commitment where researchers, institutions hope, but where there is de facto no evidence of how this is financed. Summa summarum: a large area that is forward-looking. I very much believe that there must be a review of the budget, where additional resources are now to come from and have to be given. And this is also a clear demand on the part of the Economic Research Institute. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Yes, Mr President, where do we come from? You always have two options: either increase or rework revenue. And since in times like this, there is already a clear direction to stand by the fact that research and education have to be taught higher than it is at the moment. This is really an area that is missing in this form. As you have addressed the European Research Framework Programme today: It must be said that the universities in Austria have done great things, they have been able to pick up a lot of resources. But, of course, it is also important to continue to make use of these resources. And this is a challenge, and, of course, at the level – and, Mr Minister, you should support the researchers who support universities – that in the crucial co-forming bodies, Austrian researchers also co-shape and decide on how to bring funds to Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] In view of the analysis, you will eventually face three challenges: We need more resources, we have to rely on excellence and drive internationalisation forward. – These are the three major points, the three major challenges we face today. I would like to conclude by saying: Mr. Graf, the barrel has long passed away, and I urge you to give up your office.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52024	The next speaker was Mrs Hakel. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52045	Minister! High house! The aim is to become “the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world” by 2010. – This is a quote from the European growth and employment strategy agreed by EU Member States’ Heads of State or Government at the 2000 Lisbon European Council. At the micro level, this means promoting and safeguarding individual employability. For education and training, this means the key qualification of individual adaptations to rapid social and economic change, participation in knowledge-based economy and increased mobility. However, in order to become this desired knowledge-based location, we need some important investments by the federal government in times of economic crisis. A problem for many of the students is the financial security during the studies. The last survey by the Ministry of Science on the social situation of students showed that more than 60 percent of all students have to go to work to finance their studies. Another question addressed to the students was that according to the effects of their work on their studies. More than 85 percent of respondents have indicated that work is massively restricting their study activity and that the compatibility of work and study is almost impossible. Why is that so? – Because there are only very few to no evening courses, classes on the weekend or longer opening hours of the university offices. Another significant problem for both students and teachers is the care relationship at the Austrian universities. As the technical universities are far better off, at the public universities in Austria about 95 ordinary students come to a professorship. The budget increase in the tertiary education sector is, of course, more than just welcome in view of these problems. Whether and to what extent the increased budget resources lead to an improvement in the teaching and study situation, especially for the large group of working students, is not yet fully clear. In particular, negotiations on the performance agreements for the years 2010 to 2012 will be important here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52098	Next, Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52119	High house! Unfortunately, the situation at the universities is still precarious. There are still overcrowded audiences at lectures, there are still too few seminar places. Especially in the field of adult education, there is far too little offer at universities. Indeed, in the adult education field, people over 28 years of age are systematically discriminated against. I have personally experienced at the University of Vienna that, when 30 seminar places are available, there is a waiting list of more than 100 people. On the waiting list is then rowed after the age. That means who is over 28 years of age has no chance of ever getting a place there. I've experienced this myself. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: To the Equal Treatment Commission!]] - That's right! That's right! – I have already told the Federal Minister. I don't know if he's already gotten active on this. This is what I am talking about: We need to focus more on adult education. Unfortunately, it happens at the university far too little in this respect. There are no flexible seminars aimed at adult education. There is an exception in Austria, the University of Linz. There, the multimedia degree of law is offered, which is really a demonstration project. There you can see how it can work and how it should work. In this distance study you can take decentralised exams, you can also take oral exams with multimedia use. So this example should make school, Minister of State. I don't know if you're planning a lot in this direction, but I can only give it to you very much. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] One thing is also quite certain: The modern working world will demand from all of us that we learn for life. In other words, it may well be that a 40-year-old is completely re-sattered and embarks on an alternative degree; for this policy, the university must be accordingly equipped and also offer the opportunities for working alongside the profession. As I said, especially in the field of lifelong learning, the government is once again doing far too little – especially at universities. That's why I'm saying: We are sleeping the challenges of the future, our federal government is unfortunately asleep, even in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52174	Now comes Mr Mag. Donnerbauer with 3 minutes of desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52195	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen! If one summarizes the previous speeches on this budget chapter, it is likely that research and development as well as a well-founded and best possible training – especially in this economically difficult time – will be the most important tools for the future. If one allows these two budgets, which we are discussing today and in the next few days, but also those of the past years to happen, it can be seen that Austria is very well on the road in this area and is very well placed with these two budgets – and is well on the move towards the goal that the European Union, which we have put together in Barcelona, is to reach 3 percent of the research and development rate by 2010. This goal is quite realistic. The fact that this objective is close to reality also contributes to the 2009 and 2010 budgets, according to their share. Why is that? That's it? – If you look at the budget figures, you will soon find that the expenditure of the federal government will increase from €2.2 billion in 2008 to €2.5 billion in 2009 and € 2.8 billion in 2010 – despite these economically difficult times. It can be seen that there is really good work being done here and that we can achieve the goals set in this area. If we take the share of the public sector, which we now define with these two budgets, it is seen that it is more than one third of the research and development ratio that the public sector, the regional authorities as a whole contribute. This is also a very remarkable international comparison, considering that the OECD average in 2006 was still below 30 percent. This means, in the clear text, that the public hand contributes more than what is the average of OECD countries to achieving the 3 percent research and development rate target. We are therefore confident – Mr President, Mr Hahn said it quite correctly – that we can achieve this goal with the 2009 budget and also with the 2010 budget. If it is not possible to achieve it, it is because – and this is not an accusation, it is quite understandable – that, in economically difficult times, of course, the contribution of companies, the economy to the research and development rate is falling, and perhaps something can be contributed to this extent. It is therefore particularly important that we, as legislators and the Federal Government as a whole, create the appropriate incentives – fiscal – but also carry out an evaluation of the relevant research expenditure in order to support, motivate and promote companies in a targeted manner, that they contribute their share to the 3 percent research and development rate in the coming years. In summary, it is to be said: This is a good and correct contribution to the objectives of research and development, a very important objective for economic development even after the crisis. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52246	Mr Zinggl. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52268	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to say to the honourable Member: Elmar Mayerfully right: In fact, it has become very difficult to discuss in this House under the direction of a President who has miscredited Parliament – and obviously wants to continue. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: That's another talker!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Is “quatschrender” not an order call?]] It has also become difficult to discuss with a committee chairman. [[Abg. Singer: You can reserve your mandate!]] And I can only tell you: I am now directly relieved of the fact that the President-in-Office has taken over the presidency. It's really unpleasant to have him in the back. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It was very difficult from the very beginning, and we have also pointed out that this will be a problem, but the last statements to the President of the Israeli Cultural Community have confirmed our assumptions correctly. [[Abg. May. Stefan: In Parliament..., how the Greens are...!]] It's almost impossible now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And I hope, I very much hope, that Dr. Graf has a view and, at least as a third president, resigns to make this house “politically correct” again. [[Abg. Singer: My heart is bleeding!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Yes, that's important! What can we say? – The list of allowed words!]] Now I come to the proposed revision of the university law and wanted to say one to it. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: Is there a new censorship?]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: “Political correct” censorship! Soon there'll be police commissioners!]] Mr Minister, there is a danger for every minister of science – and this is to become like your predecessor, Mrs Gehrer. So don't step in their footsteps! She has covered her helplessness with verbal superlatives. We have always been the best with our science policy in Austria. Everything was always pipifein, and every kind of criticism was malicious. The cause of this helplessness was a lack of budgeting of teaching and research. Gehrer responded with study fees, for example. She has, as it were, carried out her helplessness on the back of the students – without great success, as we know. I would just ask you not to implement these colportated innovations. I hope that it is not true that economic barriers will then be built up for students. They should really be able to continue to choose what they want to study. It should not then be selected on the basis of any economic bodies or of any scientific councils that make a choice according to economic criteria. There's the Matura. In our view, this is sufficient as an admission to the university, since there is no need for additional agreement on the part of the economy. It may be that these mergers are all wrong, but we're children burned there. We can still remember the time when there should have been no tuition fees on the part of the EIA. Then there was the tuition fees. And if Mrs Kuntzl says that no, that is not planned, I remember the year 2006, as well as the SPÖ in the election, and said that there will be no tuition fees. And then she did. So I very much hope that you will not allow us to see that any board of public authorities or the AUAs determine what education policy looks like. Otherwise, we don't need a science ministry anymore, but only an economic ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52421	Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52443	Madam President. Federal Minister! The challenge that a science budget has to face in economically difficult times is that one has to try to use the means that one has as targeted as possible. We know that private grants to the study system will not exist to such an extent during the economic crisis. That's why we're very happy. In particular, the science budget will be increased by 10 percent in 2009 and 2010. The question of tuition fees has already been discussed today. I agree with Andrea Kuntzl on the question of how useful it is to continue to impose on universities, for almost 20 percent of students paying tuition fees or less, on the administrative burden. I hope that in the next few days we will have the opportunity to discuss in a reasonable way how to deal with the tuition fees. Something has already been said about the medical union. A lack of doctors has been forecast. On the weekend it was possible to read on the homepage of the ORF Styria that, according to a study, the Styrian doctors have an average age of 52 years. It must be expected that in the near future – in the Styria per study – we will have to expect a medical shortage. Specialists are increasingly leaving the country and going abroad. In part, they are also leaving because they are obviously more attractive to working and living conditions there than to work in the Austrian health system. That means there will be a lot more to do. Last but not least, I would like to point out that it was possible – at last – to implement the collective agreement at the universities. This is a step which has long been overdue and which it has taken a very long time. That's why I'm glad we brought it under the roof and the compartment.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52497	Mr Deputies has now come to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52518	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Towards the end of the debate on the budget chapter of science, I already have a personal concern to celebrate the public debate, which is a spectacle in the media in Austria. Therefore, once again: CERN-Mobile the second. We can say that science populism is being operated purely here on the government bank. That's from the ÖVP side. The mood currently prevailing among the coalition partners is not necessarily the best. I fear that this will also block the ability of the government to act. [[Abg. Silhavy: Where do you live? Which country do you live in?]] There have been massive headlines in recent weeks. You all know this one. I'm grateful for that. Mr. Federal Minister Hahn, you were strongly criticized and attacked by Erwin Pröll because of the CERN exit. The friendship of the party colleagues Pröll and Hahn is on ice. It's in the deepest winter. I tell you, Minister of State: Those who deal with the Pröll clan are severely damaged and destroyed by the media. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, the esteemed Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, have been forced by the ÖVP – by the head of the trade union, by the actual “federal chancellor” Neugebauer – and the SPÖ-Collegine, the teaching minister Claudia Schmied, has massively attacked the school reform. [[Abg. Silhavy: Not only rhetorically weak, but...!]] There was actually your first fatal mistake. The teachers' union has won in the school reform. There's no school reform. The pupils and the reform of education policy have remained on the track. There is a first loser here – this is your teaching minister, Mrs Claudia Schmied. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Although it has announced that it will withdraw if there is no educational reform, it has not yet implemented it. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Riepl and Mr Rädler.]] Now there is a second loser: Mr. Hahn. After the Pröll empire was defeated, you – under the direction of Federal Chancellor Faymann – made a withdrawal, Mr. Federal Minister. They had to leave the planned exit. That's the fact! So, as my colleague Sigisbert Dolinschek said, the level is currently 1 : 1 in the mutual ministerial patch. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] That's how it looks in the coalition of SPÖ and ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52635	Now comes Mrs Mag. Hakl speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52656	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The exit from CERN was very sorry. I would have supported him anyway. I think CERN is incredibly fascinating. As a child, our father has taken us along as the precursor of the present, even bigger, particle accelerator. Because of the impressions at that time, I thought about studying high - energy physics. Personally, I'm very glad I didn't. In any case, it is an incredibly great project, in which we could still have been able to do research – even if we had not been with the international organisation and research cooperation as a member – but still have been able to rent times. Our teams would still have stayed there. Like other countries that are not members, we could have sent our dissertations. From this point of view, too, and in view of what can be read everywhere – the CERN budget – in which very many funds do not go directly into research, but in understandable old burdens from the past – I would have been delighted personally if the €20 million – less the amounts we had made available to the teams there – would have flowed into one of the many equally important and large international research cooperations, in areas where Austria is at the world's top. These organisations and research teams would have urgently needed our even greater support, probably more urgent than CERN. That is why, Minister, the loss of a battle is still not that of an entire war. I hope that there will be a reasonable and a perspective here that will enable a forward-looking research policy – with limited resources. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am equally sorry that we abolished the study contributions to the whole – or almost abolished them completely. What we have heard today about the social situation of students is partly true. At the same time, however, this means that all those young people who come from parents who are more powerful would be able to make a contribution to their university from my point of view. These contributions would now be needed even more urgently than ever before. That's the same thing. these funds are ultimately lost to universities, is unfortunate, but perhaps not entirely final. We have managed – and I warmly congratulate you, Mr Minister – to raise the research rate to an unprecedented level, and this, although other contributors – be it the National Bank, the National Foundation or, of course, those industries that are currently dealing with problems – is failing or making less contributions. That is why I am optimistic that we can continue this great catch-up process in recent years. But it is also very important for other things to do. In Austria, as far as broadband and its use are concerned, we are still not at a level that I believe is fair to such a rich country. That is to say, in order to ensure all these research results and to ensure the participation of young people in all these insights, to significantly increase investment in broadband infrastructure and to facilitate access, even more so than we have done in the past. On the one hand, it is necessary that the use of empty pipes and the use of cables are finally made possible, and on the other hand, that the digital dividend – that is, the frequency range now freed by digital television – is also provided with real mobile broadband use. Only this ensures that we can also provide a high-performance broadband internet in rural areas at affordable prices for all students, for all students and for our population. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] I call on all parties involved – the decisions stand up – to move in the right direction that great people's power we still have. -Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52719	Mr Windholz is now speaking at 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52741	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister of Science! High house! I can turn to the subject of the Department of Justice in Vienna. Since January 2008, Vienna has been the only European capital without its own medical center. The location Sensengassen of the judicial medical department was closed after 200 years of activity. In order to maintain the operation of the building institution, it would have required a new building. Estimated cost: €16.5 million. Then there was a week-long dispute of competence between three ministries, the city of Vienna and the Medical University. It was outsourced. So far, there was no new building. And unfortunately, we do not find God's means in the budget. The consequence of the outsourcing: In Vienna, the death experiences have been massively reduced since the closure, from 1,500 to 500 per year. Most of the 2000 annual obductions were outsourced to four Vienna hospitals. But for so-called lazy bodies – these are those with advanced devastation process – it has found anything but a good solution. Therefore, the obductions in three grey steel containers have now been banished to the site of the Vienna Central Cemetery. There is, however, no way to take X-rays or Laboratory diagnostics. It is researched there as in the Middle Ages for mysterious causes of death. Since the entry into force of the new body and funeral law, the sanitary body opening has only been carried out in hospitals. The pathologists should now ask themselves the criminalistic question of whether there is a natural or unnatural death – a task for which they were not actually trained. In short, a poison killer like the wife of Blauensteiner would not be responsible for it at all today. This is a fact that is really worrying. In the interests of safety, but also of health, I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President, Mr Hahn, I know that you are subject to budgetary constraints. Now that you've too one-to-one filed with CERN – it's probably going to be like always money – I'd suggest you turn to the coalition partner there. This condition we now have is, in any case, unsustainable. Anxiety You're quick to fix this one, and you're trying to split the cost of it into several ministries!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52807	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52865	Now comes Mrs Mag. Rudas. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52887	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests in the audience gallery, especially those of the class 4a of the main school Wies from the district of Deutschlandsberg, Styria! Welcome! We are glad that you visit and listen to us today. – Dear colleague Hakl, we need more students, we need more university graduates. We must encourage young people to go to university. In this context, the Commission will be able to study the study of their free choice. Since we still need to catch up on the academics/academics rate, we should not build new obstacles, but reduce old obstacles, improve study conditions and increase social permeability so that everyone can study, regardless of how much money parents earn. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'd like to stay a little short. . We not only have the election to the European Parliament in a short time, which is very important, but we also currently have high school elections. Especially the VSstÖ has proved what a student's representation can do, for example in the fight against the tuition fees, where this very zealous and, I think, successfully fought. That is why I would like to ask all those who may already have older children to advertise, vote at home or make use of the right to vote, since for me the ÖH election is one of the most important elections. Mr Hahn, I have met you as a very constructive coalition partner, as a politician who does not necessarily insist on old dogmas, for example on tuition fees, but also on CERN. I think the accusations are unnecessary. I think it's good to get rid of dogmas and give in to certain things. The more it surprises me – and I hope that the events of the last days have convinced you that you have come to a different view – that you have made the statement that for It was the FPÖ in Vienna and would be in question as a coalition partner for you. I think that HC Strache must not come into question for you, Dr. Hahn, as a coalition partner in Vienna. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] I think the events of the last few days must also have convinced you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52941	Mrs Silhavy is now speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e52962	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Karin Hakl indicated earlier that she was sorry that the tuition fees had been largely abolished. I hope, on the other hand, that we will find even better solutions for the students. But unlike tuition fees, I share the view of Mr Hakl that it is necessary to develop and improve broadband access, especially in rural areas, but also in urban areas. Especially in the field of research and education, we need more and more data transmission capacities and a corresponding pace. Of course, our support has also been given, and we want to make some progress here too. For reasons of time, I would just like to address three key points that are important to me in the new UG. Firstly, the maintenance of open access to higher education. I think it's important to make it clear here. For this purpose, we have received e-mails – whether constructed or not – which I cannot prove. That is why I would also like to mention this point here. The second point, which seems very important to me, is co-determination and career opportunities for medium-sized construction. I believe that this is an essential aspect of the new UG and an essential step forward. The third point I would like to highlight here is the fact that we have agreed and that we have managed to enforce the 40 percent female rate in all the bodies. I think that this too will be an essential difference to the current situation. Then: If the bodies are already occupied differently, we hope that we will have more chances that we will finally come to rectors, that women will be more entrusted with professorships, that we will finally move a little further towards equality and that women will find equal opportunities at universities as well. However, I would also like to join my previous speaker, Mr Maier, and say: Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you are very happy to be the ones who are now being persecuted. You said this a few times today. [[Abg. Weinzinger: We keep it that way!]] They deliberately make a distortion of the role of perpetrators and victims here. [[Abg. Weinzinger: No! That's what you do!]] I'd like to tell you this! If a President of this House, whom I have not chosen, no longer knows where the borders are to be drawn, then it would be high time for him to relinquish his functions, that is, from the parliamentary mandate. [[Abg. Strache: The President is the victim and you are the perpetrators! Every day we need to hear from you!]] That would be decent and that would be morally appropriate!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53038	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53059	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I would just like to talk about two issues very briefly. First topic: FWF. – I am very glad that, contrary to the fears of the FWF, the budgetary situation has again been clearly clarified by these budgets and basic research in Austria can be carried on in the desired form. A thank you to the Federal Minister on this matter, because additional activities have been needed for this! Second issue: Research quota. – Given the current economic situation this year, it is quite possible that if GDP falls and research expenditure remains the same, we will reach the 3-percent rate earlier than planned. It may also happen, however, that in the field of research, the reduction in expenditure on R & D at the operational level also reduces the research rate in those segments where basic research is carried out at the operational level. That is why it is really difficult at the moment to say whether we can maintain the research path or not. I hope that the Federal Minister has also taken steps to ensure that these failures can be addressed by the public authorities at the operational level. In this sense, I believe that we have a good research budget for the next two years and thank you for the successful negotiation with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53102	In part, “Science and Research” no longer exists for me to speak. This is the subject that is being dealt with. [[15:31:10]] Health UG 24: Health
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53132	We are now coming to the negotiation of the Health Section, Division 24. First of all, Mrs Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. I would like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53159	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, in the light of the budget for the Ministry of Health, it must be noted to God that the budget is not just a continuation of the previous budget, but actually a very sad budget. We are facing one of the biggest crises, and all the forecasts are that unemployment will rise very strongly. This necessarily means that the revenue for the health insurance companies will be reduced. Unfortunately, God has not yet responded to declining contributions in this budget. Federal Minister Stöger, here you are always looking forward to waiting for the reorganisation concept that will take you to 30. It has to be presented on June, and at the same time you are saying that it is an expenditure-side rehabilitation concept. I imagine a rehabilitation concept on the expenditure side: In fact, this is then transferred from social security to the patient, because where else are social security funds to be saved? If you believe and trust your words, that means: Social insurance can no longer be saved in the administration! That's why only the patients can meet, and we're against it. We don't want patients to be saved! I have looked at this more precisely and have also worked through your answer to all the questions and noted the following: You assume that you have a concept until 30. Get it on June. You do not know the financial impact, which you do not intend to calculate; They don't think about it at all. This means that what you have planned for the health insurance companies, the €50 million, will probably be just a drop on the hot stone. Unfortunately, Mr Federal Minister, I cannot spare you the following criticism: They have stood up after the Sillian compromise and have said: The checkouts are saved! Today, however, we know that the cash registers are not at all saved. Apart from these €50 million, there is a fund. However, the funds in this fund will only be disbursed if the EIA agrees. However, the ÖVP only agrees if the funds make expenditure savings. That is to say, these 100 million will continue to be rowed. In view of the fact that the budget accompanying law has not been approved by some ÖVP delegates for this very reason, I wonder how you want to implement this budget at all, how you will cope with it in the future. Mr. Federal Minister, it is true that the health insurance companies – and you know this, Mr. Minister – are now just ahead of bankruptcy. Therefore, Mr Minister, from the report of the Court of Auditors, which has been known since 2006 – only recently have we discussed and negotiated it in the Committee – finally draw the right conclusions and put the health insurance funds together! This would allow you to save money, because only then can you streamline the administration. Mr Minister, you are right, of course, if you say that the administration in the individual health insurance companies can no longer be streamlined. But it is not understandable why Austria, as such a small country, must have so many different health insurance funds. When I look at Bavaria, I see that it works very well there. The Bayern come with a health insurance fund. There are no possibilities in Austria. That's something I have to say: That's where it's on the system. As you can see, you have not presented any idea in this budget at all. Another point which one cannot find in the budget is the fight against e-card abuse. In your reply to my colleague Hofer's question, how high the financial damage caused by the misuse of e-cards is, you refer to any response that has already been made to this chapter. Mr Federal Minister, there really is no answer to this chapter! They always point out that some numbers are passed on by the main association of stolen and lost cards. Mr Federal Minister, this is not quite correct! While the Minister of the Interior speaks of the fact that e-card abuse is enormous, answer with the sentence: There's no e-card abuse because the main association says there's no one! So it would be time to draw up a concept and to look at it once, because always to say that the liberals are wrong there is a little weak. Let's finally go over here and check this out. Is there an abuse with the e-cards, yes or no? And if there is one, then the consequences must also be drawn from it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is also much less money for prevention in the future. On the request why there is less money, write that was your predecessor's project and not yours, so there is no more money. – I would like to say: If every new minister always reinvents the wheel, then we will never take anything further at all. I believe that prevention is a very, very important approach in the field of health. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, you have tripled expenditure on health economic concerns. So the health economy is worth a lot to you. I'll tell you: We don't want the health system to be managed economically! We don't want that! We believe that the system of solidary health needs to be maintained. It is not the economy that has to be said in the health system, but it should remain in semi-governmental responsibility! Let's be glad the pig flu was so weak. [[Abg. Prince: The New flu, not the “swine flu ”!]] But if you answer to my question why there is no additional budget for the pig flu or for any other pandemic that may unfortunately threaten us God, as we have seen, at any time, to answer: That's not known now, and we're waiting to see if we need anything at all!, I have to tell you: If it is so far, then we must act quickly, then the funds must be available. If you read through the budget, you can see that the funds for the pandemic plan have been substantially reduced. They justify this because there is no need for new purchases. Mr Federal Minister, I am not of this opinion! The protective masks and the medications have been stored since 2006. At some point you'll have to renew it, otherwise you won't have anything to distribute. That's how we don't have to provide anything at all. Overall, this is a budget that is not even a continuation of the previous policy, as it may be in some other areas. In fact, the Ministry of Health now has less money at its disposal than it used to be – and this in the face of a huge crisis, which is in the face of the so-called bankruptcy or short-term health insurance. I'd have expected a little more of you. Above all, I would have expected you, Mr Minister, to be a little more creative and also to deal with things that are not at the expense of patients in this country, but that really bring savings, such as by preventing the abuse of the e-cards, such as by pooling the health insurance funds. You wouldn't have needed any savings in benefits for this, and yet more money would have been in the system.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53235	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53256	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, the speech of Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein did not surprise me, because it would have been a miracle if it had not been said at the FPÖ's budget: Everything is terrible, everything is bad and cruel, the e-cards are misused, and we are... – I know in the new German speech it is e-card. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's right, too!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[The speaker spoke in German.]] Excuse me! I'm still saying e-card. [[The speaker spoke in English.]] It has also not surprised me the style in which the speech was given: in respect of the Minister, in a sluggish tone, in my opinion, in a way that is not appropriate to this House. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] That we would want more and more in a budget, even in the health budget, more would like me to wish more that it would not always mean in the health budget, you must first save before it comes to further performance, even that is not a secret. However, I believe that with an increase of about €730 million in the next few years in the health budget, the situation of social health insurance is not rehabilitated, but is still secure. That is, we have enough money in the system, so that people in the current economic crisis do not have to fear that savings will go to their cost, as falsely accused by Mr Belakovich. It is not the combination of health insurance funds that saves a health budget, it is not the solution to the question of e-card abuse that saves a health budget, it is not the change in the administrative situation of health insurance companies that saves a health system, it is a mixture of all these things, and there one has to see where efficiency potentials can be lifted where one can try to limit the forecast increase in health care expenditure. [[Abg. Jury: Nothing is done, it is only spoken!]] The Federal Government has provided €45 million as an emergency aid to the health insurance companies this year, €97 million from the cover of the GSBG funds – created by the reduction of VAT on medicines – in the system for the illiquid cash funds, the €100 million cash fund, where it still has to be defined, is available to improve the liquidity of health insurance funds and the Federal Government does not grant €150 million in outstanding amounts in the coming years for the health insurance companies to pay their debt. – All in all this is something that can be seen! As far as prevention is concerned, in the case of the mother-child passport, we have also extended and a plus in the budget, and there is a lot to be done in the question of the diet of children, for example, with the “Healthy School” project. I also believe that there is much more to be done in the way of prevention. I believe that it is time to put prevention at least once on such legs that in the next 20 years, we will probably not see a success in the next five years, but in the next 20 years, that perhaps future generations of politicians can no longer deal with the shortage of health insurance funds, but with healthy people.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53337	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53358	Madam President. Minister! High house! The health budget is still being dealt with by my colleague, Mr Haubner, and I would now like to turn to the issue of animal welfare. Mr. Keck, 22nd Secretary April, at the first reading of the budget, you meant that I should learn to read a budget because for animal welfare, €26 million is estimated. – Mr Commissioner, I would advise you to take the course “How do I read a budget?” and learn that because these figures are simply wrong! [[Abg. List: He can't do that!]] I think you have mixed herb and beet, because it is necessary to distinguish between animal welfare and animal health and animal welfare. You did not succeed – but I may explain that to you in the evening. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Mr President, not every sentence in the budget, which contains the word ‘animal’, is animal welfare, there is also animal health! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The costs of animal protection are costs related to the implementation of the Federal Animal Protection Act, and these are so low that they are not even explicitly indicated – of course, with the exception of the costs for veterinary and food matters. After all, I found something in the budget, according to the Federal estimates, health, number 1/24316 amounts to € 456,000 in 2009 and in 2010. – Good and nice, however, we can already reject all the animal welfare organisations that are applying for funding in the next few years. Then there are costs, for the Animal Protection Council, of € 83 323, which is for meetings, for food and so on, so nothing special. – Thus, the animal protection budget is limited for one year with €496 000. We have put a question to the Federal Minister about the amount of the budget allocated to support in 2009 and in 2010. – The answer was not meaningful, it was nothing at all: Funding of projects that stimulate and deepen public understanding, especially of young people, for animal welfare. [[Intrusion of the Abg. List.]] According to § 2 of the Federal Animal Protection Act, animal-friendly animal husbandry systems, scientific animal welfare research and cross-country animal welfare concerns are also to be promoted. – This is all that is budgeted for animal welfare. The answer to the question of what funds were used for in 2007 and 2008 was: There were alternatives to animal experiments with €15 000, the training of avalanches, the establishment of a pet park, the transport of lions from Gänserndorf to Africa, and “animal protection makes school”. With regard to the drinking stations, which you have praised so much and meant that so much money is spent on them, the following applies: It was estimated in two years for the drinking and feeding station in Drasenhofen at €82 000, with which it was promoted. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget shows how little this government is worth protecting. Therefore: At least meet the long-standing demand to anchor animal welfare in the Constitution, so that at least to the outside the impression that animal welfare is worth your while! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53439	Mr Rasinger has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53460	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! If you listen to the health debates in Austria and also in the High House, you get the impression that you are talking about two different worlds: When you read about Austria internationally, we get place 1, 2 or 3 everywhere – where it goes more in the direction of number 1 – and in the last ten years we have clearly improved; if you follow the debate in Austria, you always hear: [[Abg. Oil: Well, yes!]] No money, deficit, can't go, contributions, everything terrible! Yesterday came to this sad incident in the Sikh Temple: Interestingly, three emergency helicopters and, I think, 20 rescues were there. – You have to do that once! All of Finland has two emergency helicopters, and the country is six times larger! This would not have been as easy as possible in another country. A week ago, some parliamentarians were at the centenary celebration of the Austrian Society for Accident Surgery. I won't tell you a secret if I tell you: We're the world's peak in accident surgery. – We are also world leaders in breast cancer care, emergency medical care and many other fields. Interesting is the following – I have been in the house for some time now, and you should observe a little for a long time –: I have looked at OECD statistics, and we are in the cost increase below the OECD average. Although we are at the hospital beds and so on, but crucial is that we are very, very good in all parameters. I don't want to talk about this and I don't want to say whether we should buy masks or not. I can remember that many have said we don't need masks, but if a pandemic comes, we'll need them again. – Health policy means thinking ahead, and not when the disaster is there, because it is usually too late anyway. Then you may have a minute or ten minutes to respond, but not much. But in such a health debate, one should also highlight the basics: What do we even want to do? What can we do at all? What do we even have to do? – For me, the key figure in health policy, I am telling you now as a house doctor, who has already seen thousands of patients, an older pensioner with small incomes, who already has slight signs of mental and physical limitations. If we do anything for this person, then we have done good – there are a lot of people who can afford health care privately or who, because of their elbows, can compete with the chief physician or who can even get their services. And when you ask, Why is that important?, the answer is: The difference in life expectancy between people with low incomes and low education and high income and high education is six years. Six years less life expectancy! – That’s why it’s about health policy, and not whether I pay 0.1 percent more or less. That is the crucial point! When I say that this is the crucial point for me – keyword: older pensioner with small income – I ask you to: Look Once after Germany, which debate is under way, which rationalization debate is being held there openly! They say thicks are to be lined in the back, smokers are to be rowed in the back!; there is total frustration in this country. 18 000 doctors have left the country! This is actually a disaster for the people who have to leave the country or believe they have to leave it. And where did they go? – Norway, Sweden or England. Interestingly, 187 Austrian doctors have left the country in the direction of Germany, and those who read the medical journals see that they are full of ads. What also upset me somehow was the following: I have now read a study in the “Vienna Medical Weekly” – I hope it is not in the sense – which says that up to 40 percent of a medical group has had signs of burn-out. I think these are alarm signs that should be taken very seriously! I am very happy to talk about all the deficits in the Austrian supply: We have too much, we are world champions in the Im-Spital-Liegen, we have problems with the domestic doctors in the cities – we must not break them; it would hurt us very, very much if we were to “flat” them – we have supply deficits in the psychiatry and in the psychiatric field, and in the dental care there are large supply deficits. Overall, we are very good, but this should not prevent us from making some progress in health care, because even if we are healthy today, we can suffer from some illness very hard tomorrow, and then we are the so-called health administration – where we always say: That's too expensive, we don't need that! – very grateful if there may be an Alzheimer’s or a heart attack or any other supply. In this sense, I see this debate as a positive debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53512	Mr Grünewald has now come to speak. 7 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53548	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! I know our health system is good, but if we're world champions everywhere, if we're everywhere, we'll buy a sachort and a bottle of champagne and we'll go home again; there we don't need to discuss! There are very clear shortcomings, and the sense of the matter must be not only to praise us – that is fair and one should do the same – but to show where they are, and to correct them in the interests of the patients. And I want to talk about it now. Animal protection is something important and I don't want to make him ridiculous at all, but I'm just giving it to bear in mind that we have managed to adopt a uniform animal welfare law across the country – congratulations and bravo! – but we do not have a uniform law on patient rights throughout the country, and that is already a bit annoying. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let us consider the following – perhaps a sarcastic remark and of course I can talk about the infant mortality of seaweeds –: I am talking about the infant mortality of Austrian children, we are in the OECD section – ahead of us are four or five nations – but I am talking about children with low birth weight, which later proves to lead to diseases and is often a sign of an origin with distance from education and lower income, we are under the OECD cut. Why shouldn't you talk about it? Why not address care defects that exist in rehabilitation, in the Psychiatry, in the pediatrics, in palliative medicine, in the hospice and – I am now going so far and say – also in the care, because no one here will be able to explain to me that healthy people need to be cared for? And so we come to the problems that the Wifo, the IHS, experts of all parties complain about, namely the fragmentation of competences and responsibility. And, of course, a minister who has about forty-fifths of the total health cost budget and less than twenty-fifths of the budget that the health insurance companies have. What do you want to do with it? I do not want to be a heretic or provocateur of calls of order now, but if in a Republic state agreements are necessary to bring countries to pass implementing laws on the principles of the federal government, I think this is simply a tragedy! If the countries are only brought by gifts or subsidies – that is, simply by money – to implement To make a decision, call it the other – I don't! – ‘at the border of corruption’: I pay, and then I get a little, for example, the agreement to make a health reform or to accept it at all. So something has to change. That we have nine hospital laws of the countries and one of the federal states is grotesk and does not make things cheaper. If I now listed what we really need, where money is missing, I wonder if the cash financing measures are sufficient. Here Mr Leitl from the Chamber of Commerce and Mr Moser from the Court of Auditors answered this my question with a clear no. What is positive – and, of course, Mr. Stöger is right – is that the share of federal funds or the regular budget for cash financing is a signal not to get off the solidar system now – that would be bad – but to take over and pay public responsibility, so to speak. You know how I – and anything else I wouldn't believe you if you said it – that the cash registers actually come into a dramatic situation: More than € 30 million only for the recovery of interest received is a warning signal! If you want to close these deficits, you have to take money into your hands. If you live in the I ask: Should the patients go to the Volksgarten? Or where else should they go? In a spa? – They have to be provided! At the same time, they say: I give the cash registers something, but I order them to manage a savings volume at the level of the funds they get. – Somehow, it's not ultra-clossy. If I look at it – my colleague will then talk about it – as it is about the children and that the rate of increase in the use of antidepressants in children between the ages of 10 and 14 in Austria is 54 percent and the number of children psychiatrists per head in Switzerland is eight times higher than in Austria, then we have a lot to do. Only with praise will we not put these actions! I wish – you are more dialogueable than your predecessor, I underline, and you can also discuss with you in a serious way – the following: You would have to get the countries to work together on the positive goals, otherwise you will play here – how should I express it? –, I have said it before: “Awake, awake!” but everyone sleeps, and that can’t be it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53625	Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, spoke. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53643	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This budget creates a very clear signal in the field of health for the years 2009 and 2010 towards a trend turnaround to strengthen the solidarity financing of the health system. It is particularly important to me that this strengthening is achieved and that there is also the possibility of further developing this solidary health system. We have a very, very good health system, and this good health system can only be maintained if it develops further, and it is to work every day. And the many people who do good in the health system every day work on it, and that makes it possible. I would like to remind you – you know him – of the Court of Auditors' report, in which Upper Austria was compared with Vienna and whose essential statement was that the system of solidary health has been subject to burdens that this system cannot bear. – This trend change, which we have now brought together, is that although there is still funding through contributions, the public authorities are taking a first positive step towards taking responsibility for the overall system. We will use €1 750 million for the public health system in these two years. Where do these numbers come from? – It has already been mentioned: In the health insurance sector, the Federal Government pays €45 million annually in the area of financing the established area for health insurance companies as a bridge-up measure 2009. We have used the reduction in VAT to bring money into the system – that is, €97 million – and we have used the disaster fund to ensure that the affected local health phone is discharged, and – and that is the new quality – we have introduced the cash-flow structure fund, which provides €100 million for social health insurance. This sustainability is to be developed with structural elements, with qualitative resources, and this is also developed in directives. We intend to put prevention in the foreground. We have the tools in the Healthy Austria Fund to also promote prevention, to develop further. In essence, we can say to this budget: The Austrians do not need to be afraid of illness. We have one of the best health systems in the world, and the Austrians have access to this health system – and this budget also ensures it. We know that poverty makes disease sick. We have a good access to our high-quality health care for the groups of people who have spoken about Mrs Rasinger, namely people with low incomes, those who are older, who have to live by the pension. - This budget will secure it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53691	Next, Mr Magistrate. Maier speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53713	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for Health is also responsible for food safety and safety, which is particularly important for consumers. I would like to make a point of principle: The Austrian food is safe! The Austrian food is therefore safe because there is a high proportion of domestic production, because there is an international rapid warning system, RASFF, and because there is a control system that, I emphasize, works quite well. [[Abg. Oils: “Something! ”]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: “Something, ” right!]] – That’s what I meant! [[Abg. Ollinger: We just wanted to underline!]] I admit it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you know where the problem lies: not to the Federal Minister, but to the Federal Government, in the field of indirect federal administration, that is to say when it comes to control. In fact, control lies with the federal states and not at the federal level. When we talk about the federal level, we talk about material and legal provisions, then we talk about whether the LMSVG is enough to protect people from fraud and health damage. The LMSVG will have to be revised, but it has proved successful so far. The second question that arises in this context is the question of analysis – and that is the question of the AGES. Are the resources of the AGAS sufficient to fulfill the tasks assigned to the AGAS by law? And in this respect, one can be of different opinion. My opinion – and this has always been the opinion of the Socialist Group – was that the financial situation does not guarantee the AGES' existence. [[Demonstratative condolences with representatives of the Greens.]] Nevertheless, it has succeeded in experiencing excellent work by the employees of the AGES. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to thank the committed AGES staff very much. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] But the main problem – I emphasize this – lies in the federal area, where there are different standards in the controls, where there are different performance figures. And this is about bringing about uniform standards for Austria through corresponding changes, so that the AGES can carry out an appropriate risk analysis and risk assessment. Finally, the following conclusion: The Austrians have no particular problem with harmful food. We have a problem by misnutrition, by lack of movement, and this, High House, we should fight in cooperation with Federal Minister Alois Stöger.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53801	Mr Karlsböck has now come to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53822	Madam President. Minister! High house! Two findings: Health is important to the Austrians, and a major health reform is necessary. – Both things are to be reconciled. However, we have received a budget for health which unfortunately does not take this issue into account in all areas. Mr Minister, it must be acknowledged that: Some of the cornerstones that have been placed there are the right way to go in the right direction. So you have now begun to shift the health system a little towards tax financing. They have tried to link a cash recovery package, but unfortunately it is already obsolete, because the numbers are not right. Secondly, the structures have to be changed for a long time, and that is not true either; we have been cutting it and criticizing it for the long time; but the structures are left unchanged. In other words, hospitals will not be charged with hospital financing, the financial compensation will not be tightened up, which would be absolutely necessary. Once again, only sub-areas are overrated – if, for example, the health reform comes, we can already imagine what will happen: In turn, it will only be tried to take the cash doctors into duty and perhaps also the pharmacists. This brings a certain percentage, but in general this will not make the herb fat. And then I still lack something in this budget, which Social Democracy always holds very, very high: the social aspect. There's a keyword: Self-tained. I know that it is said again and again in Sunday's speeches that self-retainers are very unsocial, that they do not want to be self-contained, that they belong more or less abolished, and that they will not invent any new ones anyway. We have today prepared a motion for a resolution which, at least once, we want to abolish self-preservation in sub-areas, and I shall also justify that. Forerunnerly, the money costs, but if you look at it the second time, you see, it costs nothing or it's non-conceitable. I would like to explain this briefly. If a patient goes to a doctor today, for example, to a dentist, and takes advantage of a self-retainable performance there, this is done, and the patient pays the amount of self-retain. If he does not want to, he is going abroad today – and that is the reality. There he pays the same price X, which is the self-retaining, but for himself does not apply to self-retaining. He gets an invoice, goes to the health insurance fund, gets that amount refunded. For the health insurance company, this is non-profit. Under the rule, that means: It halves the price for the patient, for the health insurance everything remains the same, for the general or for the state, for the economy it is a total failure. So if you calculate it against it – you have to do it once; I don't know that until today there seems to be in no way a calculation in this regard on or in any form a calculation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we are now making the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I also have a second point, which has already been raised today: the prevention in the case of a pandemic. Fortunately, the pig flu – fortunately, I say – in its sickening factor is not as dramatic as one had assumed, second, relatively stable in Austria and, as one says, in the decline. However, the WHO – and I have recently heard this – is quite different, namely that a massive global outbreak is likely to occur in the autumn. So, now we have provided – we have already discussed this in committee – all these tablets that exist are available, but I am missing in the budget – and even the questions do not give a real positive statement – the financial reserves for the case of the case. This means that if we need a vaccine from Austrians, about € 70 million or € 80 million is missing in the budget as a precaution. Any merchant would take this into his balance sheet if he knew that a risk could threaten him. That is, we as the Freedom Party want to ensure that there is a budget item that can be retrieved in the case of the case. That is why we are also putting forward a motion for a resolution: Motion for a resolution by Mr Dr Karlsböck, Members of Parliament, on sufficient budgetary provisions for pig flu The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Health and the Federal Minister for Finance are immediately being asked to ensure adequate budgetary pandemic precautions so that, in the case of a pig flu pandemic, sufficient financial resources are available for the purchase of the necessary vaccine to protect the population.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e53888	Mr Dr Karlsböck has just tabled two motions for resolutions. These are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54016	Mr Donabauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54038	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I should like to begin by thanking all the ladies and gentlemen, citizens who work in this sector in the debate on health. I don't think so much of those in social security, too, but I think above all of the doctors, of the nurses, of the drivers of rescue vehicles, of all those who are there day and night. It is good to know that there are people who accept those who come into a crisis situation. This is a very special task. [[General condolences.]] We have a good, but also an expensive health system, that's quite clear. If we draw comparisons today, then there are several parameters that are not equally applicable, so we should think about what we ourselves have to do. With all the quality, we also have to show some things. This is not about practicing useless criticism – no, for this the subject is far too serious – but about bringing in critical thoughts. One problem I see is that today we have multiple performances and double-tracks from the local authorities, which cost us a lot of money and do not allow for reasonable coordination in relation to health costs. I am certainly one of those who highly value the work in hospitals, but we also need to see, ladies and gentlemen, that the social security funds of Austria pay about €4.5 billion a year for that, through financial compensation. On the other hand, social security schemes do not in reality have a say in the design, construction, operation. – Look, these are topics that we really need to deal with, no. This is, I think, very important to us. The next point. We have a very high demand expectation. This may have grown in part traditionally, but I think we need to increase our own responsibility. That is why all of us, I mean, must work to raise the awareness of the citizens' awareness of prevention, to bring people to and to gain that health is the best and also the most economical for every individual. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] That's a task we can't pass by. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Stöger, you said today that we are beginning to write a new chapter. – Well, I hope so, too, because I would be glad not to hear the eternal reports that come back every day, namely any local health insurance fund would have had payment problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Then: This does not promote the reputation of social security, nor does it benefit a citizen – it brings maximum uncertainty. The fact that we are bringing a lot of new money into the system is okay, however, that the flow of money is only going in one direction – well, I take note of it, because I believe it is a matter of continuing in the matter as a whole. But it's also about some other things. We should see very critically – and that is why I said critical thoughts – that, for example, we have some of the system members – the citizens cannot choose where they are insured, because they are bound by law of a certain agency – who have contributions to a group of carriers and hardly any share of costs – for example, with the prescription fee everywhere – that we also have other groups in which the citizen cannot choose, but he has the same contribution rate and an enormous amount of costs – one can also say “self retention”. See, we need to discuss these questions once! We need to think about it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] It is also not to be seen that, for example, almost all systems – except for a system – have children free of charge. A system group wants to do the same, would pay it itself – but it has not succeeded to this day! Mr Federal Minister – I do not ask anyone – I invite you to accompany us. We also want to create equality with regard to this group, for which everyone is waiting and who understands. Finally, it is always about discussing the e-card and its proper use. Of course, there are some problems or troubles there – you have to talk about, not a question – but we also have to say here and generally acknowledge that the e-card is something quite great, a unique application product that every citizen has, that the e-card truly represents a unique performance across Europe. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Some of them pass on too!]] You were State Secretary, dear Sigi Dolinschek, you could have done all that you know better today. But this time is over! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: When we get the Farmers' Health Insurance...!]] We must see very clearly the following: If we call for control or demand it, the control shall be carried out mainly by those who also use the e-card as a billing document or as a billing certificate. It will be discussed in the next time – without assignment of mistakes, no, this is not at all what it is all about. It's a realignment, an improvement to make a little different tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54144	Mrs Haubner has now come to speak. I'll set the clock up to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54165	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! It is truly gratifying that all speakers agree that prevention is important, that prevention is important, that health is cheaper than health and that we need to invest as much as possible in this area. Mr. Federal Minister, the precautionary budget, but prevention is not very comprehensive with 1.9 percent of your total budget. I think that's just too little to do all that's being announced. From our point of view, the foundation for the prevention is already for the children to lay in the youth: in the area of exercise, nutrition – and here also to anchor. Our request for a school health programme, which we introduced during the debate, goes exactly in this direction. It is also incomprehensible for us to believe that especially in the field of precautionary measures – in spite of a clear different opinion from the opinion of the Supreme Council of Sanity Vaccination Committee – vaccinations against pneumococcal and meningococcal are intended only for “risk children” and are not included in the general vaccination plan. We are therefore putting forward two motions for resolutions: by Dr Spadiut and Mr Haubner on the inclusion of pneumococcal vaccination for children in the free vaccination plan The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Minister for Health is invited to submit the recommendations of the Committee on the Vaccination of the Supreme Sanity...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54204	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to interrupt you. I was just told by the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate that these applications did not exist. I suggest that you make these requests in writing and the next speaker then oral. - Please, continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54223	Yes, thank you, Madam President. I should like to come to the second point of my speech, namely the general health reform – a health reform that started during the last legislative period, but which has failed, above all because many problems have not been taken into account that many have not been involved, for example the hospitals, but also because those concerned have not been involved in time. These are mistakes from which you should learn, as I mean. I hope you, Minister of State, have learned from it. But if I look at what you are doing as a contribution to health reform and to the preservation of our good health system – that we have such a thing – I have to say that, in our view, this is nothing but investing money in sick cash in the short term to secure the liquidity temporarily. I wonder when you are finally going through structural reforms so that money is not constantly to be lost, because although these financial injections are getting the patient's cash back to life, healthy people can only really get the health insurance and the health care system through a comprehensive reform. From our point of view, it is simply necessary, among other things, for health insurance companies to be grouped together. As my previous speaker, Mr Donabauer, also spoke in the direction of health insurance and health insurance, I wonder why the Farmers' and Commercial Health insurance funds have not been merged to this day – something that has already been planned in the government between 2000 and 2006 is already on the table, but now one hears nothing of it. If you consider that the forecasts of the main association are relatively bad and show which minus is to be expected in the next few years, then my According to the relevant structural reforms, more than ever required. It can be so enthusiastic Your government partner is not about this cash financing, because I wonder why last week, in the context of the budget accompanying legislation, four MEPs from the ÖVP did not agree to this recovery of health insurance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Sonnberger.]] There's something wrong with the great development of this system. Or was it just because in Vorarlberg and Upper Austria there are elections that you spit a little loud tones here and do some opposition work? Mr Federal Minister, I think it is a lot to do and, above all, there is a need for a serious discussion of a comprehensive health reform, a discussion of important and new content such as a uniform catalogue of services, a uniform system of fees or the involvement of the care sector in an appropriate health concept. I think it is essential that you take these paths quickly, because only in this way can we make our good system safe for the future and, above all, that which is important, can be the last thing for all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54280	Mrs Csörgits has now come to speak. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54301	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Karlsböck, the pandemic prevention that you require – I can tell you – has been around for a long time. It has been regulated on the occasion of the so-called bird flu in the ASVG. I'd ask you to look at this on occasion. However, in my speech I would also like to dwell on health care and prevention, and I should like to note that there are very good approaches to the budget here. For example, the means for the mother-child pass were increased. The mother-child pass is undoubtedly a success story, because in Austria it has succeeded in drastically reducing infant mortality; it also gives the possibility of early detection and timely treatment of diseases. An equally important point in prevention are vaccinations. Here I can say that you, Mr. Federal Minister, together with the main association and your ministry have carried out a reorganisation of vaccination in Austria. My colleague, Dr. Oberhauser, has also mentioned that in the field of schools and kindergartens, the Federal Ministry of Health and the Federal Ministry of Education and the main association have set certain objectives, which is what health care in these areas is about – a very important and above all very useful strategy, because it is precisely this group of young people who are very willing to change the situation of life. But I don't think it should end with this, prevention must be much more and must not stop in front of the world of work. There is no doubt that we have been able to improve a great deal in the field of occupational medicine, and technical aids have also made it easier for heavy physical work, but we must not ignore the fact that new burdens such as stress, mumbing or burnout can bring a lot of stress to workers. People who work too much are as affected as people who unfortunately have no chance of getting a job. There is often the situation that they are simply flee and display addiction, as they must be helped: So prevention must take place everywhere. . I think it would be very good if we were to consider a so-called prevention law together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now it is so that there are very many providers and different payers, and thus it is a fragmented system. A law could eliminate fragmentation. It would certainly be worth it, for this could also make people healthier. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54365	Mr Oellinger has now come to speak. Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54386	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! We are likely to agree that the job of a health minister is one of the least enviable in a government and in this Republic as a whole. Part of the problems and reasons why this is so have already been addressed: the complicated structure, order in Austrian health care. But now I am not concerned with spreading about this. One thing, however, has already been said about it, because it is always remembered – whether by government parties or opposition parties – : I don't know any instrument, no measure, no administrative reform, or whatever that would enable a sustainable reorganisation of the funds or the health system. I don't know. There is no such thing all over the world, and this is in an example, I think, easily present. First of all, the basic: What we experience permanently in the health system is distribution struggle. This is about how scarce resources or more or less scarce resources are being moved in favour of which group. And if I follow the debate in here, I have the impression that there is also a lot of getting involved in one direction or another. But now the example: For example, if a pharmaceutical company is an effective-identic medicine for a particular disease – there are: Makulade generation; I do not know if I have already brought the example – completely new out and sold around a hundred times, twenty times, five times or twice of the price that it was originally on the market, but not against Makulade generation, but as a cancer drug, if so – and that is what we are talking about now – then at least in one area is already clearly illustrated what problems we have, Mr. Rasinger! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As long as we do not react to these problems together and do not deal with them together – that is why we Greens were always for political strengthening at the federal level, for example for a uniform approach to these large companies – as long as we do not find the appropriate instruments, Austrian health policy will always be difficult. - That's the general one. But now for the most part: What I have missed in the debate so far was an indication somewhere that we have a massive financial crisis, which, of course, also has a massive impact on contribution revenue. And I would like to see an overall approach, Mr Federal Minister, and not just separate attempts to order something: There are a few millions there and we are making the Structural Funds! – Although we do not yet know how the budget allocation will work, you somehow believe that if you follow you, we will get over the rounds in the years 2009 and 2010, but beyond the budget figures. They all know that, contrary to the forecast that is still under the budget, contributions are not going to increase, but are going to fall. And the difference is – you can argue about whether it will stay there – 4 or 5 percent. By 4 or 5 percent lower contributions – that means a lot of money, ladies and gentlemen! I wonder if we have already reached the point in the debate that we are asking ourselves what this means. Of course, this will be very direct, of course, there is what we try to prove again and again to illustrate on individual examples, rationalizations in health care – of course, there are these, but they are not spoken about – and of course we have to work together! I have also taken many positive examples from today's debate, so it is not. Mr Rasinger and Mr Donabauer have mentioned a few things about which I think: Yes, we could discuss it further to get a green denominator. I think that the small pensioner with the low income, who has starting limitations, as a reference system for good health care, is good – only because it doesn't look so optimal, I tell you as well as my answer to it – or, what Mr Donabauer has also proposed to remove the charges for children. – However, I do not need to appeal to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, which is what we can decide here. Let's do it! Let's do something together! Take the opposition with you what you were still not ready for, but let us also talk openly about the problems and, if possible, let us leave away the cheap party policy “hacks”, which is really not worth it. In this case, it is about the future, and it would be worth finding common ground.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54453	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I should like to warmly welcome the President of the Swedish Reich's Day, Mr Per Westerberg, who follows our debate, accompanied by a delegation from Members, whom I very much welcome. [[General condolences.]] Mr Maij-Weggen has now come to speak. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54484	Madam President. Mr President of the Reichstag! Federal Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is precisely the previous debates that have shown that health issues are raised by all political groups outside of the party and very objectively discussed. I think this is very, very pleasing in view of other contributions that we have already heard today. We all agree that in Austria we have a health system that does not allow a two-class medicine, and above all that we have a very expensive but nevertheless under the rule an efficient system, which of course in many Subdivisions, as we have already heard, are in any case worthy of improvement. I believe that we can do a lot in the area of interface management in the hospitals up to the care, so we can save a lot of money. I am also in favour of the fact that we are now showing real reform in the health insurance sector, but also the many measures that the Minister has already mentioned, such as prevention, are simply important measures that can make the system more efficient and cheaper under the heading. Despite the crisis, it has succeeded in adding to the health value which it deserves in any case, I believe. And I am very much in favour of this budget being supported by all, so that we can implement the necessary measures on the basis of which we can continue to be the best system in the world for the health of our people. In this sense, I would like to ask for approval. I should also like to thank you, Mr Minister, for your support for these projects by my group.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54526	Next speaker: Mr Vock, with a desired speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54547	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! I would like to disagree with my previous speaker, because as a Member of Parliament, I am always shocked when I hear of cases that clearly prove that we have a two-class medicine in Austria. If I hear that someone has six months of waiting at a Meniscus surgery, if he can't afford it, but if he says then I go privately to the ordination of Mr. Primar or the Lord's Supreme Doctor, this operation can suddenly get in 14 days, then this is a two-class medicine: [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Where?]] Those who can afford it quickly get help who cannot afford it must wait. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Equal Treatment Commission or Anti-Corruption State Prosecutor!]] What does our government do about it? – Savings in medical areas, hospital staff, medical equipment, combinations of medical departments – patients will travel across half-Austria in case of emergencies; if I have an accident in Mödling, I have to go to Wiener Neustadt, which is called the so-called performance matrix, which is increasingly eroded – savings in the medicine sector, and a favorite of mine is the postal promotion by sending patient information exclusively by mail. But what does not happen? – The combination of health insurance funds – as you could certainly save a lot of money –, administrative mergers, the active fight against e-card abuse or active economic promotion, in order to ensure jobs and therefore more revenue for the health insurance companies. In my opinion, € 250 million for teachers means – I have mentioned this repeatedly – for example, € 400 million loss of income from health insurance funds. We would get these, if we were to invest these €250 million in the construction industry as part of the BIG. I am therefore afraid that we will not even be able to afford this two-class medicine in the future. We could also ensure medical care for all citizens with a skillful shift in the budget and with courage to address the problems actively. Since we have so many animal comparisons here, as an animal protection speaker, when I hear it happens so much towards animal welfare, one must say: What we would most need in animal welfare does not cost money, but would only require the willingness of ÖVP delegates to finally raise animal welfare in the constitutional order. If comparisons with animals are always made here – I heard a comparison with crocodiles last week, we have heard comparisons with monkeys today – then I can draw a comparison today with the hamsters: The hamster is a social animal, a peaceful animal that has learned to arrange with people. But when you push a hamster into a corner, he starts biting, then he bites around. Do not wonder, therefore, that if you are constantly trying to push us into a corner, we are also starting to bite back. We haven't started this fight, but we like this fight. However, we will certainly not continue this fight on the road, where the left demonstrators do it, but we will raise it here in debates.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54626	Next speaker: Mr Keck, who has three minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54647	Madam President. Minister! Mr Spadiut! I'm surprised to hear from a practicing veterinarian that he makes a difference between animal health and animal welfare. I believe that animal health is very much animal welfare, because when the animals are healthy, they are good, they feel well, and that also gives animal protection. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been the Federal Animal Protection Act in about five years, which we have decided here in this House. And just three years ago, we finally united the responsibility for animal welfare in a department and could concentrate the resources there. Unfortunately, in the field of animal welfare, God is still being harmed in Austria despite legitimised laws, and the various animal welfare associations and animal welfare organisations rightly point out at regular intervals that we need to step in and improve something. To mention just one thing, ladies and gentlemen: What helps us with a Europe-wide unique animal transport law if its compliance is not effective enough to be executed? For example, I think that this budget has responded: At this point, €1.2 million will be invested in the promotion and direct acquisition of costs, where, for example, control bodies will be trained, which will later check all animal transport through our country for compliance with our laws, ladies and gentlemen. This budget will also provide around €4.4 million for the animal databases. That is exactly what we have decided in the Federal Animal Protection Act, namely that these animal databases should be installed. These animal databases are very important: If animals are lost when animals are exposed, if animals are abused or perhaps even killed, then their owners This is the first time that we have been I think we have already strengthened this in the Animal Protection Act. But it is very important that a project, namely “Animal Protection Makes School”. With this budget, this project is financed to address children and young people in order to raise awareness of the protection of animals at school and to counter the fact that, for example, puppies who are illegally transported to Austria are bought by the street, and to cause people to actually go to breeding and rearing those dogs in accordance with the law. I think Minister Stöger has really achieved an excellent throw in terms of animal welfare. These €26 million are for animal health, are for animal protection. I mean, it's a budget we can say it's a budget that benefits animal welfare. I can only thank Mr Stöger very much for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54704	Mr Ing. Lugar is the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54726	High house! 30 percent of treatments are performed due to false diagnosis. Quality controls, which are quite normal in the economy and on the agenda, are not available in the health system. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: nonsense!]] Such false diagnostics are often fatal. I know a case like this: My brother-in-law's mother had severe chest pain for months and was therefore always with a doctor. She was treated several times for nerve inflammation, and at the end of the day she was told not to be so wretched. When she stopped being sent away after half a year in which she suffered, she found a tumor in the chest that had broken her ribs. Four weeks later, she was dead. – Unfortunately, this experience is not an individual case. Many say we have a wonderful health system just because it is worse in other countries. It can't be our claim to a good health system that it's even worse elsewhere! What we need is a comprehensive quality control. The blind trust we have in many doctors is not always justified. I am not concerned with putting things apart – every human being can make mistakes, that is not a question; even doctors are just people, and doctors can make mistakes too – I am concerned that politics here ensures that these mistakes are rigorously clarified and that everything is done, that such mistakes do not happen again. If an automechanic suffocates, then not much can be broken apart from the car. If a doctor makes mistakes that would be avoidable, then people will die. We must therefore proceed rigorously: We need quality control! As far as the two-class medicine is concerned: It always means we can't let a two-class medicine enter – we have a two-class medicine! In Austria it is like this: If someone can afford it, he goes to the private doctor, if not, then he will be finished with a contract doctor in the three-, four-minute cycle. Unfortunately, diagnostic errors occur very often, because simply time is missing. Whoever can afford it goes to private hospitals and who cannot afford it goes to public hospitals and there has an unestimated risk of meeting a doctor who has been in service for 20 hours. After 20 hours, the performance of a doctor is about as high as if someone with 1 permill of alcohol would operate in the blood. – This data must give us some thought! There are very, very many weaknesses in our health system. It is about identifying these weaknesses, it is about creating a political framework that eliminates these weaknesses. – This is my right to politics. Just saying it's worse elsewhere and therefore our system is particularly good, is certainly not what we need. There are problems – there are a number of problems! – in the health system. We must look and not look away!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54768	Mrs Hellererer is now speaking. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54790	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! If you look at the landscape of the Austrian KV carriers, you can see that some of their responsibilities in the field of self-management are intensively aware and can be positive, even in this somewhat difficult time. If you follow media coverage, it is noticed that this is always focused on an overall representation of the financial situation of the health insurance companies. The health insurance companies are under enormous pressure: They have a total debt of €1.2 billion, they have recorded a total deficit of more than € 130 million in 2008 and they will have been recorded over the next two years in view of rising unemployment. There is nothing more that can be done for health reasons, says the Federal Minister. In 2009, a financial injection of €45 million from the federal government will help in particular those health insurance companies that have shown negative cleanness at the end of 2008. The local health telephone – especially in Vienna – will benefit from this, with the exception of Vorarlberg, Salzburg and Upper Austria. We know, of course, that, despite the entire health insurance package, we cannot hope for a more favourable future health care in spite of the €100 million Structural Funds, which still have to be met with criteria, and the contribution of €450 million in debt, which will be launched in 2010. Demography and medical progress alone will increase costs. Not only do business solutions need to be addressed, but above all we have to deal with the system-immanent misdevelopments. This is a new regulation in the distribution of funds, and again the funding of health care from a pot on the table aimed at the hospital sector, where 30 percent of the costs are to be paid by health insurance providers but do not have to be shared in the use of funds. Negotiating is a cash reform: The main association and the doctor's chamber meet in five working groups, 30. The results should be available in June 2009. Mr Federal Minister, we need far-sighted reforms! There is still a lot ahead of you, for which we wish you good luck too!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54835	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54856	Madam President. Dear Minister! A brief reference to the animal polemics in here: If I could choose whether I was a hamster or a crocodile, I would, I think, rather choose the crocodile. The budget is the solidarity of the health system. The government assumes responsibility over the overall system. These were your words, if I may correctly quote you, Minister Stöger. The question for me is: What is the overall system? I now call two areas which you, Minister Stöger, have been approached as well as never before. The first is drug policy. You defend your political opinion on how you stand for alcohol, how you stand with nicotine, how you stand on illegal soft drugs, on illegal hard drugs to bring the public closer. How do you feel about the fact that minors actually get involved in a drug cocktail? What about prevention? What measures do you take against drug abuse? Health policy also means protecting people from drug abuse, dependence and addiction. The second point is child health. In contrast to adult health, the importance of child health in your place of residence is not the largest. Precautions and therapeutic measures for physical and mental health are rather in the back. It's going to be a little sluggish, and these are a little modest. However, health policy also means giving children and young people the right to health care, the right to therapeutic treatment and the right to health.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54903	Now comes Mr. Ing. Oh, my God, my God. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54924	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the Health chapter, a number of key points concern consumer health and food safety. I would like to address some of them briefly, including the zoonose monitoring, for which €300 000 are estimated in 2009 and 2010. Austria is obliged to monitor various pathogens under the EC Directive and is also required to monitor antibiotic resistance. Only an efficient animal disease monitoring programme allows consumers to recognise and respond to a potential risk in order to prevent cases of disease or death in humans. The veterinary information system is planned for €3.3 million in 2009 and €3.4 million in 2010. This comprehensive database system is a effective disease prevention and disease control instrument and also contributes to the traceability of food and consequently to consumer health. The Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety plays a central role in the field of food and veterinary control. The improvement of food safety through systematic monitoring is essential for consumer confidence. Another important task is the control and quality assurance of medicines. The Federal Government is obliged to finance as a 100 % owner under the Health and Food Safety Act. In the next two years, €32.7 million will be estimated. However, the basic financing remains at the same level compared to the past few years. We also discussed in the Committee with the Minister the financing of the AGES for the future by means of a health or nutrition contribution. In any case, there will have to be measures to secure financing. That is why this issue will continue to be part of the agenda. It is also important to mention the AGES PharmMed, the national authorisation authority for medicinal products. Since the division from the Ministry of Health, it has operated as a business unit of the AGES. Some 700 medicinal products are admitted to the Austrian market each year in the European Union, some 200 of which are exclusively national authorisations. There will be 3.1 million € for this in the next two years. The use of the AGES infrastructure is undoubtedly cost-optimising. The overall budget is undoubtedly crisis-induced. We can assume that this will be the case for the next budgets. Nevertheless, we will be required to ensure the quality of our health system. I therefore think that we must look for a broad shoulder closure on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e54990	Mr Dr. Strutz has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55012	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Health is a very important pillar for the future, not only in connection with the supply of the Austrian population, but also as an opportunity for future generations to find jobs in the healthcare sector due to demographic development in Austria. But if you look closely at this budget chapter, you can see that, as I believe, it is the largest construction site that a federal government will have to answer today and also in the future. It is huge financial expenditure that has been made available without any actual reforms being launched. The millions of payments to the maritime health insurance companies have not been linked to a number of demands, for example, that once one brings them together, one finally leaves room for an administrative reform in this area too! What if the coalition parties SPÖ and ÖVP are not aware of this? For example, I call the headline “SPÖ does not agree to amendments by the ÖVP” if I can quote the health spokesperson of the Social Democratic Group, who is still proud of the fact that the ÖVP’s amendments will not be implemented in the Cash Exchange package. This means that in the resolution of the disaster fund – as originally planned – the Vienna regional health fund is preferred. What are the consequences? – Parts of the coalition partner vote against the budget accompanying laws, and countries such as Vorarlberg and Upper Austria have already announced, if not already allowed the budget accompanying laws to be dealt with by the Supreme Court if they are not to be repealed. What is this budget that is being disrupted by its own coalition parties, by its own government in front of the Supreme Court? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is actually a patient who belongs to treatment! But that's not enough. All health professionals do not agree with this policy: The cash registers are rebelling, the decision of the Federal Accompanying Act ends up before the Supreme Court; the construction of the ELGA, the electronic file, is already bringing doctors to barricades because they are allowed to calculate fewer benefits. The glass man is only suggested as an excuse. The hospital costs are exploded, the health insurance deficit is rising in unprecedented heights, and the doctors are expected to have reform concepts up to 30. In June 2009, the Commission submitted a proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member – I ask: Where are these reform concepts? Has the Medical Chamber presented an approach to this day, a month before the ultimatum, which was put forward by the Federal Government? Otherwise, the following would be noted soon. The smoking law of Mrs. Kdolsky is broken; nothing moves anymore. The ÖGB criticises its own minister. The patient’s insurance speculates joyfully with the funds as you can take out the “profile”: ‘Experience report of the Ministry of Health on highly speculative AUVA investment proves clear violations of law.’ What more does it need to realize that this important chapter in the budget, the Health Chapter, is actually a patient that needs to be dealt with urgently?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Silhavy: But not from you and your ambulance fees at the time...!]] – Look at S’, Mrs Colleague, if you now make your objections, I would like to tell you: Under BZÖ's government participation, there have been health reforms. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There was an attempt for the first time – and I am glad that the colleague of Social Democracy agrees and nods! – so that something has moved in the health sector. [[Abg. Silhavy: Ambulance fees!]] I am proud that under the responsibility of the BZÖ, there was no one – not even a coalition partner! – who has disrupted these reforms before the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55076	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak. Mr President, you are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55101	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There would be a lot to correct. My previous speaker referred to ELGA: Doctors rebel because they can calculate less. – That’s wrong! On the contrary, it is true that the concept of ELGA does not provide for a single scheme which would be such. I would like to make this clear.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55154	Mr Sonnberger has now come to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55175	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! We have adopted various measures in the budget accompanying law, namely the resolution of the disaster fund, the transfer of VAT cover to cash-ins with negative nets and the distribution of the additional € 45 million to cash-ins with negative nets. Then it comes out – and I ask Mr Stöger, Minister of State, to consider this! – that the Vienna regional health insurance fund, the Carinthia and the Burgenlandes Landeskrankenkasse in 2009 will have a positive balance. This is where I come to the problem and why some of the above-mentioned Members have not yet been able to agree to the budget accompanying law because the funds in the compensation fund are unfairly distributed. The funds are used as follows: As a contribution to the operation of the Hanusch Hospital, €30 million is planned – which could also be paid by the state of Vienna – to compensate for different structures – that is 45 percent – to compensate for different liquidity – there are already rewards for those who did not save – and to meet a special need for compensation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] [[New call for tender Silhavy]] [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The funds are raised by 2 per cent of the contribution of each local health fund, by means of tax resources, namely the GSBG funds, by the service provider's levy – the tax paid by the service providers who employ several minor employees – and by interest income. The Fund's volume in 2008 is € 278.2 million, and we must ensure that these funds are more fairly distributed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] Upper Austria will no longer accept that these funds will be so unfairly distributed. We suggest that, instead of 2% at a first stage, only more than 1 percent of the funds will be provided by the local healthcare phone and that in a further step these 2 percent will be abolished at all. In fact, there are still enough resources to compensate for this. In the future, we will no longer be able to deal with the fact that the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse does not take a savings course. We ask you – and I believe there has already been very positive discussions in this direction – to consider discussing the compensation fund and in the course of the 70. ASVG-Novelle find a satisfactory solution – also for the other federal states.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55236	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55258	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus once again on the financing of the Agency for Health and Food Safety. Mr Maier has already made a statement here – in my opinion very essential – that it is really necessary to do the AGES that his group is convinced that too little resources are available. I would like to say this again: This is a point that we agree with. We are convinced that the Agency's health and food safety tasks with the current base budget of € 54.5 million cannot be covered by annual grants. In this context, I recall that in the process of merging – which was a big government project years ago – the funds for the AGES were greatly reduced. That was the big debate and discussion at the time: Will that ever happen? I have looked at the answers of my last questions from 2004 and 2005, and at the time it was said that the Ministry of Finance was not a problem, it was a long-term guarantee that everything was in the best order. But, Mr. Federal Minister, already in 2005 and 2006, €2 million a year were added, €11.3 million was added for three years, and a €7.3 million cash deposit increase by the federal government was also implemented in 2004 at the same time. That was the basis for the AGES to get over the rounds at all. I have here, ladies and gentlemen, the AGES budget proposal for 2009. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] – If you calculate, you will receive the basic contribution contained in the budget papers – € 54.5 million, some of which come from your resort, some from the agricultural resort – to an operating result of € minus € 18 million. Ladies and gentlemen, it is already missing 18 million € in 2009! So that, Minister Stöger, is not possible; that is our firm conviction. This is also not feasible in this budget, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ. I expect you to propose an improvement until your decision is taken. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have already heard from the Committee that there must be a change of law, for a variety of reasons, but it cannot be said in the middle of 2009: Yes, we want to change something in the law and change the base somehow. We should now make an appropriate adjustment – here and today and in the next days, where there is still time. That's very important to me. Why? – This is a question, Mr Federal Minister, of the extension of risk research, which is all about research within the meaning of society, such as relevant GMO risk research. Freedom of genetic engineering is a common issue in which we want to take a lead here in Parliament. They also assured that there should be research projects in this area. I thank you for that. That's where I see at least a minimum dosage. However, I am already surprised by an answer in which you write to me, for the year 2009 you will re-establish a brochure for information on non-genotechnic food, “From field to plate” – labelling of genetically modified food – but at the same time tell me that partially notified projects in this area cannot be implemented or continued because of the restrictive budget implementation. Okay, for 2009. Unfortunately – I say – you gave me the same answer for 2010 – my question was explicitly also related to the year 2010 – exactly the same answer. I suppose that was a misunderstanding of your official. [[Abg. Oils: misunderstanding!]] 2009 and 2010, these are two different years. I hope that in 2010, you will also carry out a project that will ensure that the public is sufficiently informed about non-genotechnic food. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned several times, on the diet action plan. Mr Stöger, you have also reported on this in committee. On this occasion, I would like to take a brief look at the 2008 nutrition report. This shows quite clearly: There are more overweight people than in 2003, the vitamin and mineral supply in children has clearly deteriorated. The report shows that 39 percent of the respondents in this study are already taking food supplements, and it shows further poor and faulty nutrition situations in Austria. There, ladies and gentlemen, I already see a real problem context. This is a sign that despite lip confessions, despite impulses, measures have not taken any action over the years. Mr Stöger, I am very curious about your food action plan. In this context, I would like to ask you to actively involve Parliament, that we in the Committee really make the most of the potential. I say that consciously, because it must be a common concern for us to carry something forward. Now on bluetongue: We have already discussed a lot in the committees. – It’s a disaster, I have to tell you honestly. It is not your responsibility; it still has your predecessor to answer because, in essence, the funding is not secured. In total, € 13.5 million is budgeted for the years 2009 and 2010, although you have already said that the vaccination should be voluntary in the future. I assume that this kind of budgeting is necessary because the Minister of Finance has not covered the expenditure previously incurred. It would be interesting to hear and learn that again. [[Abg. Silhavy: The speaking time, my colleague.]] The novel of the Health and Food Safety Act is essential. We need more transparency for citizens, and we need safety at the Agency for Health and Food Safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55330	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55352	High house! At the beginning of my speech I would like to make two comments. On the one hand, Mr Sonnberger: If you are talking about the ‘compensation fund’, but if you think the ‘catastrophe fund’, then I would say that it would be useful to get together with Mr Rasinger or Mr Donabauer, who is somewhat familiar with health care. On the other hand, to colleague Dr. Strutz: It is quite clear that, during its government, the BZÖ has made reforms in health care, but under the black and blue or black-orange government, co-responsible for reducing the revenue for the local health phone of € 345 million. – It belongs once to the point who caused this. – Therefore: Please read the Rechnungshofreport before making such statements! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the context of the budget debate, I would like to focus on a chapter that is very important to me, namely the training and training of young people. health professionals. I believe that this chapter needs to be stressed in particular because there is much hidden behind the word “health professions”. These include – we should be aware of this when we talk about it – understanding the health care activities that are carried out directly and for people: for the purpose of promoting, preserving, as well as restoring or improving his health. If the government is aware of further improving our health care, it is also clear to me that human resources play a key role in this regard. Therefore, those who provide health services to and for people are simply the environment and health care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This area, as we all know, is a very dynamic and expanding one, with the requirements for professional qualifications of health service providers and quality assurance, but also and not to forget the cost-performance relationship for us a special challenge in the coming years. We cannot shut our eyes to the fact that, due to the increased health awareness of the population and also due to the increasing ageing of the population, there is a growing demand for health services. However, this also means that those people who work in the many health professions, thereby making an important contribution to health care in the intra- and extra-mural area, in the prevention, diagnostics, therapy and rehabilitation, also need special education and training. In my opinion, in this context, it would be very important – in addition to the post-promotional training that the doctor can do in the course of teaching practice in the future – to ensure a modular training for all people working in the health field.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55427	Next speaker: Member of the jury. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55448	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Health debate in the Austrian Parliament – always an exciting matter; exciting especially when you look at the background of this whole health debate. Budgets are set, continued, processes are simply taken over by the state, but zero attention is paid to a structural reform of the health system. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Austrian health system is one of the best in the world, and, Dr. Rasinger, it is true, of course we also want to look after the pensioners who care for the minimum pensioners in the future. But if this is to be continued and determined in the future that everyone can have decent basic medical care in Austria, then we need structural reforms. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What do we need 26 health insurance companies for? Or, Mr Maier, this is your beautiful topic again and again when you look at it: Over 50,000 e-cards are stolen, 144,000 e-cards are lost. There is probably a steady trade, and that would be a point to take. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Federal Minister, initiate structural reforms, otherwise the population will eventually show you the red map.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55510	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55531	Mr President. Minister! High house! For me, this card was not red, but pink, Mr. colleague, and I assure you, we see the health care in Austria realistic – and not with a pink glasses. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Jury: No, you see her with the pink glasses!]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you know that? – You want to say something, and the next moment you don’t know what? Anxious? – With the greatest probability not, but we all get older, and maybe this could become worrying once. Therefore, it is important to remain physically and mentally fit, and more and more precautions become important. This has been discussed several times today. Very interesting is the proposal by Mrs Csörgits to create his own prevention law. What is important to us seniors? – We seniors are very concerned about the prevention and early detection of dementia. With the growing number of older people, the number of those who no longer manage to find themselves in their surroundings no longer manages to prepare the food. Demenz, ladies and gentlemen, is already the care ground number 1 in Austria. 100,000 people are ill, and in 30 years it will be twice as much according to forecasts. In the EU, 600,000 people per year suffer from dementia – to name a number more – which is more than the people who suffer a stroke. What does that mean to us here and today? – Dementia should not be considered a taboo theme. We need more education, sensible prevention, best therapy. There are already some campaigns like the doctor's chamber, but what we want is a concerted action from early recognition to special training of sensitive caretakers. Let us commit ourselves to those who must live with forgetfulness, for life should be worth living for all! I also see this as a task of our health policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55575	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55596	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to make a correct position. Mr Strutz said in his speech that there had been no proceedings before the Constitutional Court. – I have to correct this and present it as incorrect. There have probably been proceedings before the Constitutional Court, namely exactly two. One procedure has affected the fee of the ambulance and the second procedure the accident pension tax. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Strutz's statement is to be described as incorrect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The financing of health care is an essential part of the budget and budget. For 2009, health expenditure will amount to € 865 million, and for 2010 this will increase to € 993.7 million; Expenditure that in the present age produce positive economic effects – effects that secure jobs and create new jobs and give the economy a positive boost. In the case of constantly improving health care and, as a result, increasing costs, it is only natural to look at the structures in the health field again and again for quality and efficiency and to define new structures and objectives. Within the framework of the agreement on the organisation and financing of health care for the years 2008 to 2013, the cross-sectoral financing of cross-sectoral financing has been treated as an urgent issue and has been given the highest priority. The Austrian Health Structure Plan represents integrated performance planning in the healthcare sector. More quality, faster comprehensive integration of the extramural area and integration of the rehabilitation area and greater consideration and development of interfaces are a few points. The large-scale apparatus plan sets the minimum number of large-scale medical equipment at the federal level and also ensures a comprehensive supply regionally. Health care is inseparably linked to staff. Adequate staffing in the various health professionals is an essential element of quality in health care. The 2009/2010 budget and the financial resources provided for it ensure high-level health care. However, this should not prevent us from pursuing permanent evaluations and efficiency improvements in the health sector. The budget's budget of €2.47 million for 2009 and €2.54 million for 2010 is a clear sign and a commitment to maintaining and extending economic and high-quality healthcare. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Final sentence – we heard a lot yesterday about the success of the film-making artists –: If there was a price for excellent health care services, I am convinced that Austria would receive the Golden Palme for the health system and for health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55669	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55690	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Despite all the criticism we have now heard about our health system in this debate, one thing is clear: We have one of the best health systems worldwide. Our common effort must be to continue this high quality of our health system. that we can continue to provide this high quality to the population. However, we also agree that this health system is not cheap, and for this reason the budget for 2009 and 2010 has been increased accordingly. But I think it must be clear to us that medical technology, operating techniques, the new drugs of course every year are quantum leaps in the quality of our health system, but of course also quantum leaps in the field of costs, so that we definitely have to consider: In order for us to keep these additional costs within the framework, we must, of course, be aware of some of the prevention measures, especially in health care. Each study shows that people who regularly go to a precautionary examination have an essential health benefit. Most sufferings do not come from today on to tomorrow, but these signs or these risk factors are easily recognizable especially in precautionary investigations. It's clear: In any case, we must put greater emphasis on self-responsibilities. We must make every effort to ensure that young people are guided in particular in the field of nutrition, in the area of movement in the right direction. That's how we can stop several big risks. In the field of nutrition and, of course, also in the field of exercise, there is at least an important factor in prevention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55729	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55751	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In implementation of the Austrian Genetic Engineering Act, cost-intensive expenditure in the field of analysis, control measures and the implementation of international meetings in Austria, as well as in the event of hearings for the implementation of genetic engineering law, as well as information and information on the possibilities of genetic engineering, can also be expected in the context of an international regulation of genetic engineering. The drawing up of experts is needed both in the preparation of guidelines for the collection of health risks in the field of genetic engineering and in the framework of the activities of the Commission on Genetic Engineering for Monitoring and Monitoring. In the field of agricultural and food biotechnology, open issues of risk assessments should be further explored. In particular, studies on the possibility of horizontal gene transfer for bacteria to carry out the testing of the allergenicity of genetically modified foods and to establish a gene bank for probes of Austrian species of plants. Furthermore, the biomedically relevant field of bio- and genetic engineering requires special research for the interests of the relevant research department. Furthermore, it is only through specific funding measures that important research can be linked to the EU's research activities. The main focus here is on ensuring the safety of gene analysis procedures, developing quality assurances, but also on protection of genetic data. In the context of current and future new applications for the authorisation of GMOs as such and for GMOs, ad hoc experts are also seek advice on the characteristics and safety of specific GMO products. The results of these research contracts and opinions will be incorporated into the existing EU-wide authorisation procedures and will also provide the basis for any necessary national measures or for the authorisation of any releases in Austria. A first good step has been taken in this budget area for measures and the necessary precautions.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55796	There is no longer any further word on the Health chapter. We have dealt with this subject area. [[17:26:52]] Work, social and consumer protection UG 20: Work UG 21: Social and consumer protection UG 22: Social security
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55842	We are now entering into the negotiations on the part of work, social protection and consumer protection with subheadings 20, 21 and 22. As First of all, Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55870	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! For the consumer protection sector, a much lower amount is available in the 2009 budget than in 2008, i.e. around € 1 million. Nevertheless, I believe that you can and should do something about this money. Consumer protection is known to be a consensus matter, but it is also a cross-sectoral matter, and I think it will be important here, especially in the field of consumer information. What now comes through the computers, via the Internet or via the e-mail rail of offers and is not verifiable for the consumer is a trap. It will be necessary to eliminate these traps, and consumers will need to be informed about these cases so that they can be careful and know what they can do here. Furthermore, it is also a great concern to me – and that was already a topic in the last or last session – to deal with the subject of artificial cheese. Here too, as I hear from the other political groups, there is a five-party proposal that we shall vote tomorrow or the next morning. Cheese, which does not contain a drop of milk anymore, is a great risk because one does not know how it affects health, because one has to look at, above all, the situation of Austrian farmers, who are already being stopped, produce less and get a bad price for milk anyway. If this were to be fuelled by the production of art cheese in Austria, it would be badly ordered by our farmers. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] In this sense, I am glad and grateful that the other political groups have also taken up this issue and that we will reach a positive conclusion. What is a bit sad to me is that, for almost a quarter of a year now, we have had the constitution of the committees behind us and have not yet held a single Committee on Consumer Protection. There are now numerous initiatives in this committee, and I hope that the Committeeobmann will soon be convened to an appropriate committee. There are dates already, I think. It is already a bit late, because we will still have a lot to do, but I also hope in this area that good cooperation with the other political groups will be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55924	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55945	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! The resources of active labour market policies have been increased dramatically. You can find about € 1 billion in this budget chapter. This ensures excellent training and training. With regard to these active labour market policies, it is established that 50 percent of these are specifically intended for women's qualification measures. I think this is very necessary because it is also possible to ensure that women are trained and further qualified in non-typical activities. Another priority is this budget chapter in the field of youth employment. The Federal Government is taking over €500 million to give young people a future perspective. On the one hand, it is the training guarantee and on the other hand the “future for young people”. In the area of pensioners and pensioners, it is also ensured that, first of all, pensions are naturally guaranteed, inflation compensation is also secured, and that the improvements we have recently made in the pension system are also financially secured. Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer, I would like to thank you and your team for the great negotiation. It is ensured that the people of Austria have a social security system and that we are fighting the crisis objectively and effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e55989	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56010	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! How much does the budget for work, social and consumer protection bring to each individual citizen and how much does it burden each individual citizen? Well, if you look at that, you have to say it definitely becomes more expensive in health, in care, in life in general. I am thinking, for example, of a cure or of the fees for the board of directors. All Members of Parliament have been credited with regard to the state of affairs, how the charges for people with disabilities are increasing in this area. There is no valorization of the care allowance, no means of introducing a care check to support care at home, although there is more and more care There is a need for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Please, my colleague. - Okay, it hit him again. – There is no better social security scheme for caregivers and caregivers from the age of 3 onwards. The number of people with disabilities has remained at the same level since its introduction in 2001. The billion was still in Schilling at the time, now it's €72 million. For the renovation of the cash registers, which have been in red figures for several years, € 1 billion is spent. A cash-flow structure fund will be created. The Federation assumes, as it were, the debts of the cash registers, on the other hand, a third of the charge the AUVA has is placed in the sand by highly risky securities. This tradition, which already exists in the semi-governmental areas where one wants to get money quickly, continues here. In these areas, losses have also been written and the money of the Austrian taxpayers on the world market has been pummeled and everything has been lost. The Austrian taxpayers now pay for this. It has denied the chance of a state reform and thus made it impossible to make any savings at the cash desks. The situation on the labour market, of course, is still particularly affecting the situation in the current financial and economic crisis. It affects the financial situation of pension insurance. The decline in employment, especially in full-time workers, and the rise in unemployment, of course, have now reduced the level of contributions, which, of course, leads to a deterioration there. In other words, there is a gap in all these areas, including wage negotiations. When I look at it like this: On the one hand, even if one has achieved profits over the past few years, the employees in future wage negotiations should refrain from wage increases – this is increasingly demanded by the employees, although these companies have achieved good economic profits in the past; this in turn reduces purchasing power – on the other hand, credit ratings are paid for managers. All of this is, of course, particularly bad for the labour market, and I wonder how the trade union is working here and how it wants to handle it in the future, because the negotiations simply have to be conducted better for the working people. There's a big chance here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now a few words on consumer protection. I am chairman of this Consumer Protection Committee, Mr. Zanger, and for Wednesday, 24. A meeting was scheduled for June. I would have preferred a meeting much earlier, like most people working in the Consumer Protection Committee, but after the Federal Minister had no time to be here, we did not make an appointment before. It's not up to me. I tried to get us to make a meeting before, but it was just not possible. In the consumer protection budget, the grants for ARGE debt advice are also falling. I don't understand that at all in times of economic crisis. Total expenditure in this area also fell by €500 000, from € 3.5 million in 2008 to € 3 million in 2009. One more thing, Minister of State: The price reductions for consumers are constantly slowing down, but price increases will be passed on immediately. In this In the future, you should be particularly active in the field for Austrian consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56091	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56113	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! No, Mr Dolinschek, it is not true that the signs of consumption are not relatively favourable. There is an inflation which is constantly declining, which is no longer at all, relatively high wage accounts from the last autumn and even now and tax relief, i.e. a bundle of measures that would, in principle, strengthen the purchasing power and also strengthen if the optimism of consumers is maintained. And we want to make our contribution to this, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Otherwise, it looks like the labour market; we know that. We had the financial crisis, which really really surprised us, especially in the autumn of last year, and it is far from over. The economic crisis is now meeting us, and now we are on the way to a social crisis. If you say that social is what creates work – and we know that the unemployment rate will still rise significantly, at least until autumn – we have to deal with it already: What can and what do we want to do? – Namely as good as anything to avoid this social crisis as possible. In principle, Austria is well positioned in terms of the labour market in this crisis situation. We have acted correctly, the economy has acted properly in times of good growth, i.e. we expect full employment to continue at the end of last year. Secondly, the AMS is best placed qualitatively and financially, it certainly belongs to the best AMS in the world and also has the money available for active labour market policy. Then there are the so-called automatic stabilizers – a pretty unword, but important in importance – which means that not only for unemployment benefit, but also for short-time work the funds needed by the Minister of Labour or the AMS here are automatically available. Short work is an important tool for bridging, and soon it will be 60 000. I advocate that this be made as simple and attractive as possible for employers and, of course, for workers to be implemented in such a way, and I also call for the need to extend it if necessary in order to continue to give this instrument the priority it deserves. Otherwise, it looks like a group that unfortunately is the most vulnerable in the time of a weakening labour market, these are the young people. On the one hand, young people, of course, need a training place. There are measures to provide training for all young people who want to do so. It must continue to be a concern to implement the training guarantee in fact, and this is not so bad. It's hard for those boys who lose their job. Not rarely are those who are first dismantled; these are especially vulnerable young people. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the experiences of recent years and decades show that someone who is once faced with a phase of unemployment at the beginning of working life will often lose this stigma for the duration of life and career. That is why it is said to do everything to help these young people not easily cancel them and to push them out of the jobs. This is a political task, but of course it is also a task for employers, the economy as a whole and the social partners. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] At the end of my remarks, let me comment on a subject which, as I hear and read, was the subject today also in Brussels, namely in discussions between Barroso, the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister. I also know that the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs was, of course, co-informed. Transitional periods: In principle, it must be understood if the EU Commission is not very lightly giving green light here, because protection is protection, protectionism. Others see this as quite different, especially the representatives of the new Member States. Rebus sic stantibus – on these conditions, however, I am also in favour of extending these term of protection for two years now, especially because, below the general extension and use of the term of protection, the useful concept of the gradual opening up of the labour market where we need staff – care staff, key workers and others more – continues to be maintained and the social partners play an important and good role here. Mistakes in the labour market should be avoided, Minister. The OECD says: Let us not repeat the mistakes of the 1970s, when not only Austria, but many OECD Member States have fled to early retirement programmes in the case of labour market problems and have subsequently proved to be completely wrong! I appeal to all those involved to shape the age-part-time schemes in such a way that they are actually age-part-time schemes – not just early retirement programmes, which, as I said, would not only be very costly, but also structurally the wrong way. Let me close with an appeal that is in some way also addressed to ourselves. I believe and fear that in these times we need difficult labour market conditions and a social crisis more than ever the cohesion of society in this country. We representatives of the political parties, the social partners and only the Federal Government are called upon to promote, live and, in particular, to hold the discussion here in the House. It will require more solidarity than usual with the weaker. We are prepared to get out of this crisis emotionally strengthened, but this will not save us – in the next few months in terms of the labour market, will hit us even harder than in the past few months.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56201	Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56222	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bartenstein, it is interesting to hear that you appeal to the cohesion of society and to the need for mutual solidarity. I hope that means that you are considering a rethinking towards capital taxes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: You, I think, misunderstand that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, while we are debating the budget here, Siemens is preparing for the cancellation of 900 employees – and these are not school drop-outs, not auxiliary staff, but mainly academics, these are IT experts and IT experts! It is alleged that the crisis is to blame; there are declines, and this leads to Siemens being forced to halve his workforce, ladies and gentlemen! These stakeholders are mainly concerned with research and development, i.e. in the area of a company that is designed to develop new ones, to generate innovations that are crucial to how a company can position itself on the market in the future. Even in the innovation field, does Siemens supposedly want to save, and does Siemens want to give up in this area?- Oh, my God! – No, of course Siemens does not waive, but these jobs are to be outsourced. It is about saving personnel costs and maximising profits once again, because in Asia there are not only cheap bond workers, but also IT experts, highly qualified people, and this work will take place in the Siemens locations in India and China in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, this is still the logic of neoliberal globalisation, all of which has nothing to do with the crisis directly. The crisis only serves as a pretext for implementing measures that are prepared for a long time more easily – one expects less resistance. Minister Hundstorfer, I should like to know directly about you: What will you do to prevent this personnel reduction? How will you personally work to secure the preservation of these high-quality jobs? – I hope you get very involved in this. And now to the budget, ladies and gentlemen: In the area of work and social affairs, we have a post where more is spent and more has to be spent than in previous years. Mr Minister, if we still criticize the budget too low for us as too low, You're right on the army. It could be more and more! But, ladies and gentlemen, there is an area where not only could it be more, but must be more, namely, when it comes to supporting those who are now in the process of losing the job or having already lost their job. Mr Minister and also ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I am absolutely incomprehensible that you are resisting the need to increase unemployment and emergency aid on a sustainable basis. That's incomprehensible to me! They assume that 300 000 unemployed and their families are in massive financial difficulties. They provide companies and banks with bridge aid, and this is also good, but: Where is the real bridging aid for these many people?- Oh, my God! And then suddenly you pop and say so, Well, it could be more and more. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that if this poverty solidifies, it will be much more expensive to us in the long run than it would now cost to increase the net replacement rate. Mr Minister, I urge you and the government parties to make an increase here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need our support from the crisis, but we must not forget that we have problems on the Austrian labour market, which we have been carrying for a long time, and that is the disadvantage of women. We have only now received an EU ranking that shows that Austria is the most prominent among the 27 EU countries in terms of fair pay for women – only Estonia is still behind us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] Mr Minister, if I have these figures so ahead of me, it is simply not enough if there is a small ‘programm’ here and there, or if Mrs Csörgits says that 50 percent of the resources of active labour market policies are spent on women’s qualifications. The fact is that your actions, as well as those of your predecessors and colleagues, are all going empty! It doesn't work, otherwise we wouldn't have those numbers. I call on you at last to have a massive offensive in order to permanently abolish these income injustices for women! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to address a group which, of course, is always the subject of this issue: the boys in this country. Youth unemployment is not a new problem either. Sure, there's a boost now, but still: The fact that young people don't get regular jobs, but are time workers, free staff, interns and interns – all of this isn't new! They are now investing in the training guarantee – that is also good and important – but we do not know whether this training guarantee will really take effect, and we do not know what will happen to young people after their training, and whether they will not be forced to work as a temporary worker again, if you do not at last change the framework conditions! Sure, we are talking about the budget today, but it is urgent that you also become massively innovative by law in order to stabilise the situation of Austrian workers and to improve them at the end of the day. We urgently need a new and fairer distribution of working time and the appropriate conditions for doing so. We also urgently need stronger participation models from employees in operational decision-making processes – for example, the possibility for employees to continue and take over a company that is to be closed. We also need a change in our vocational training system, for example an extension of schooling and then a massive reform of dual training. It does not help us to always create new promotions, it needs a real reform in itself! These are just a few examples. Mr Minister, I expect such innovative considerations from a competent minister in times of crisis or in times of change and reorientation. But this budget is an image of a conservative, structural-conservative policy – and therefore, unfortunately, a far-reaching opportunity.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56342	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56363	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My colleague, dear, I think it is clear to you that you should express your criticism to the Federal Minister and to the Government; but in such a way that everything is bad – I have understood it so that you have criticized everything, but have found few words about what would actually be the case in modern times. [[Onions of the Abg. Windbüchler-Sauschill.]] I'm gonna try to do that now. I think that avoiding unemployment is at the heart of labour market policy. At present, as difficult as it is, this is an important goal. It is precisely the new right that we have in short work that I think is an example of how it can go and how we can at least partially avoid unemployment. It has, I believe, proved itself, also the combination with the qualification is increasingly applied and, I believe, is also forward-looking and innovative. But what happens after the short work if it is not enough? That's the exciting question. There are several ways to do this. One possibility is: short work again. We now have the 18 months of duration, we already have the first extensions to another six months in the farms, so it turns out that this extension possibility is also accepted positively. Or: If it really is not different, you have to see that you are establishing foundations for special groups, such as temporary workers, temporary workers and young people, in addition to those we already have. I think there are some things that are now in preparation and will come up in the second employment package. I assume, however, that the Federal Minister will say something about this. What I would like to criticise is a new fashion that comes into being, namely to make withdrawal contracts, that is, simply say, during short work or instead of short work: Well, we're going to "get" people to the labour market service for a month or six weeks; if it goes well, they can come back, and if not, they're bad. I think that this procedure is very bad and I would like to express myself clearly against it. It seems to be a cheap solution for companies. In the meantime, we already have the first cases where the labour market service says there is no unemployment support. This means that the ball is back at work, and there is a threat of pay-off for the suspended. Such actions against Salzburger Businesses are being prepared by the trade unions. It will then be exciting to assess how this continues to develop. So I mean, in conclusion: Short work allows for a fair burden distribution between workers and businesses, but suspension contracts only bring disadvantages to workers. I think it should be pointed out in such a discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56424	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56445	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! We know that in the 2009 budget, €357 million have been estimated for apprentices. This is a lot of money, not a question; the question is just how the money is used. Last week at the general debate, I noted that freedom of movement is clear to us that operational promotion must be the essential element, because our companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, provide 70 percent of the apprenticeships and also ensure high-quality training. Mr Bundesminister, the over-company training centres, we also welcome the increase to 12 000 places. We also note, however, that this can only be a catch-up network, an emergency measure, and we must also ask ourselves the question of how this is adopted by young people, ladies and gentlemen. However, as we have to say, it is not particularly well accepted; this pocket money of 240 € paid there is apparently not enough incentive for young people to take advantage of this offer. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, when we look at the facts and the data of April 2009, we must recognize that we have a massive problem in the field of apprentices. We have 4 484 job seekers, which corresponds to a plus of 14.3 percent compared to 2008. However, we only have 3 136 teaching places, which corresponds to a minimum of 10.5 percent. This results in a need for 1,348 teaching places, which is why we really see urgent need for action. These facts, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be said away or beautifully; the last German government has clearly failed. Nor should we forget, ladies and gentlemen, that we are facing a massive shortage of skilled workers. In demographic development, a historical low in the 16-year-old area is forecast for 2015 and 2016. That is why it is important to give young people good training now – even in times of economic crisis and also in public service. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the argument that the public service can no longer be trained than can then actually be taken over does not count in this situation. Personally – and I believe that I am speaking for my group too – it is preferable for us to have well-trained young people looking for employment, than for those who are not trained, for whom it is difficult to enter the labour market, which is difficult to mediate. In the public sector, there are very positive examples, such as the German army, where 30 different teaching professions can be learned, but there are also negative examples, and we should start there. But we should also – and I mentioned this last week too – especially in the countries in which municipalities stop our mayors from making massive progress there that young people are offered teaching places on the ground. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we owe this to young people! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I repeat when I say: We must now, in times of crisis, not only take companies into account, but also make good progress in politics and in the public sector. One of the last areas I would like to address is the promotion of new apprentices, because this is always what the Minister welcomes. If you look closer at this, however, you have to find that there is a minus here and that this is a deterioration, even if the ÖVP does not like to hear it; the last time there were the wildest calls. If we compare this with the "Blum-Bonus", which one of your Members called "everlasting" then it has brought the individual farms €8 400 a year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] The “new educational promotion” – unbureaucratic and easy access – results in a funding of €6 250 for an apprentice, for example in the metal industry. So that actually means a minus of € 2 150! This is said here so that you don't break out in jubilant songs! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have to do everything we can to give our young people the best possible training and to ensure it. We must not forget that they also mean our future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56566	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56637	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56661	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schatz, I am normally also in favour of innovative ideas and approaches, but unfortunately God will not overcome the crisis with innovative approaches, I tell you. If I imagine that a company is in danger of being locked up and that workers are to be held responsible for the company and the business risk, I can only tell you no thanks! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: A bit more courageous, Mrs. Colleague!]] Courage, courage - apologise: On the one hand, when people fall into unemployment, whole families are affected and we bring whole families into poverty, and on the other hand, you want to attach employees to an entrepreneurial risk where employees do not even know how the company is together. [[Abg. May. Honey: If that's what they want!]] I'd say stay serious! This federal government shows that it is making serious policy in the crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But let me briefly comment on the consumer protection budget. Of course, for example, as regards debt advice, it is not particularly gratifying that the budget or the funding has declined. On the other hand, I believe that a number of things are being done, for example, when I think about the fact that the Chamber of Labour and many other institutions are also available for advice to consumers. On the other hand, I am surprised that the debt advice budget has fallen where you, Mr Maier, have always taken the initiative to increase and provide more resources. But let us take a closer look at how we can handle these resources. However, I would like to draw your attention today to something that was in a broadcast of the Upper Austrian Chamber of Workers. It is about the fact that in the case of net wage agreements, wage tax rollovers are not passed on by the entrepreneurs. Now there are certainly serious and real net agreements, where that – I have looked at it – is quite right. However, there are also very many non-real net wage agreements, which are only derived and in respect of which we are sure after 30. June must be very strong on the hat. The Chamber of Labour will also be required because, of course, it will also receive complaints from the staff. The essential thing about consumer protection is, I believe, also – and we should also consider this – that we really have our fingers on what we have decided for consumers, for example, for wage tax reductions, which are intended to increase purchasing power, so that consumers can also afford more – and that we can stop those companies that fraudulently – for example, because they believe that employees have net wage agreements, which is not at all true – the wage tax reductions. Last sentence: I think that the initiative of our Minister for Economic Affairs Mitterlehner, to stop the change of spray prices several times a day by means of a regulation, is very welcome, and I would like to see the Minister of State, Hundstorfer, who is responsible for consumer protection, join in so that a satisfactory solution can be found for consumers before the summer.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56723	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56744	Mr President. High house! Allow me a sentence on this discussion, which will accompany us all day and which can also be traced through the media, namely the introduction of the choice of the Presidents of the National Council in this House. Mr Klubobmann Bucher has already said it impressively: We think that this is an evental legislation, although it would be very charming to elect President Prammer of the National Council for the subjective and party-political presidency she is running here in this House. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] But now on the matter and on the sad facts: Mr. Federal Minister, by the end of the year, 500 000 people – if not more – will be unemployed in this country. They are entitled to human rights of work, to the realization of a job. Not least, the gifted and blessed work of former State Secretary Ederer, whose thousands – in Schilling – have been waiting for us for 15 years, helps to reduce 900 more people at Siemens. For those who do not know: This is Mrs Ederer, who, if I am not fooled by everything, properly advises Mr Swoboda on economic matters, so that the social-democratic way of ruining jobs in this country may also continue at European level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] 1 million people in this country have to live their lives below the poverty line, including 90,000 children. In addition, 250 000 children are at risk of poverty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] In view of this tragedy, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, intermediate calls are not appropriate, I think. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Basic security!]] [[Abg. Petzner: No one understands that!]] In view of this tragedy, it is quite necessary to discuss how to deal with this social budget. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In view of this tragedy, it must be discussed how it can be that the budget on the one hand has fallen figures for the fight against poverty, but on the other hand, one cheers out for example €3.55 million for consulting costs at the window. It is important to discuss how, on the one hand, there are 500 000 people living in unemployment on the one hand, but on the other hand, more than € 1 million for salary costs of ministers at the window or € half a million for flight costs on the other. This is to be discussed when we talk about justice. On the other side contains Her budget – social spokesperson Dolinschek said – €72 million for the disabled – has remained unchanged since Herbert Haupt introduced the disability billion – the billion in Schilling at that time. This amount has not been increased to date. Instead of the sums you spend on consulting, advertising, taxi costs, Mr Minister, we could put € 4 or € 5 million in the promotion of the disabled, for example in the employment of people with special needs, people with disabilities. It would be social and no such waste as you do in your place of business. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No valorization of the care allowance, no recognition and solution of this problem that has accompanied us for years. Klubobmann Cap, in Austria we have a care emergency. Where is this care emergency solved? - He's not being solved. It will continue as before; important questions of the future will not be solved. Therefore, we will not agree to this social budget, which is an “unsocial budget” – because it does not even deserve the designation “social” and because it is not possible to solve essential problems of today’s society, such as social tensions, as it seems to be the money – the hard-earned tax money of Austrians! – is used for other things. As I am at the same time, Minister of Labour, Mr Hundstorfer, I conclude by saying: You know, by the end of the year, 500 000 people will be looking for work in this country – people who want to work, who are looking for work, but cannot work because the economy cannot provide jobs because of the economic crisis and not least because of your policies. On the other hand, in this House – now he's outside again – we have a Member who doesn't want to work, but here in Parliament the double gage for this unemployed life, which he's running out of his high school. Mr Sozialminister, perhaps you can explain to us how this is with those who are looking for work, but who do not get it, and those who refuse to work, but who get a double salary for it like your honourable Member Faul. This House of Deputies is also a synonym for your social policy in the future, and this will punish the voters, the Austrians and Austrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56833	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e56855	Look, honourable Member, it's natural. Your case, what you represent here, of course, and we are the defenders of the fact that every Member and, of course, any minority group can do to the full. I am also quite right that the discussions are as punctual as possible and also as controversial as possible, because this offers the chance that you can work out the differences as well. But what you have done in several speeches here in the House is not a promotion of Parliament's reputation, nor a promotion of political culture – and your calls for action at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you really want to continue, then, I tell you, you don't need to wonder if sometime the people outside this house, the voters only talk more about a Quasselbude or something else. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you also contribute to this!]] We want to avoid that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you will also be contributing to this!]] That is what we have had before, this criticism of the House, and as a result there have been anti-democratic movements and democratization. If you get out so fluffy and say, Well, occasion legislation, we are not there for it, but perhaps it would not be so bad, because we could elect President Prammer because I do not like their presidency, then I will tell you the following: Go to your Clubbmann Bucher, who sits in the Presidential, who should practice criticism there when there is criticism to practice! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Will we do anyway!]] At the same time, however, we will also be Make you the subject of the Presidency and deal with the way in which you deal with individual Members. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He fears himself anyway!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We are afraid already!]] Indeed, it is not all right if you address the person in a destructive way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You know, I've looked at those statements you've already made here in the house. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We are afraid already!]] - You don't have to be afraid. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Always when you threaten with the showfin-ger!]] You should only try to think constructively if you are interested in having a better image, a better reputation and a better political culture. It wouldn't be bad. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why, then, does the President laugh at the calls for orders?]] But if Mr Faul is speaking here and you do not think anything but to accuse him that he is either drunk or under drugs, then this is a way of dealing with him, which is absolutely unacceptable. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why did he make an alcotest?]] You can be different from each of the Members on how he thinks what he is doing, what he says, but what you are doing here is absolutely condemning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] - Yes, you're part of that right now, Mr. Petzner. You don't have to say goodbye at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We are afraid already!]] You know, I don't want to list that. You know that yourself, you know the date. Once you say: ‘The problem is: In the government they only have oxen!" Or, to Mr Prehauser, “They are a zero...!” and: “They are the incarnate bottom drawer!” and so on, and so on. These are louder than formulations placed under the belt line. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Woe!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – No, the one standing below is half in tears, and afterwards there is a campaign against Mr Faul, just that one does not see what he does after 23 o’clock in his spare time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Cap gets hurt!]] That's not all right! That's not all right, you have to take note of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You know – no, that's one thing, that should be said here in plenary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is that a desperation act?]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grillitic.]] – Mr Grillitsch, you too can meet once, wake up You don't get around with your hand like that! You too can make it happen once, even you can once become an object of such attacks, and then I'm excited what you say in the final effect. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How many calls have you received? Didn't you get an order call last time?]] That is why I would like to conclude by saying: I very much liked the speech by Mr Schüssel, whom he gave here a few days ago, in which he expressed precisely this criticism – you now have to nod. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that this is right and that this should be taken up, ultimately for the benefit of all of us sitting in here, because if we are interested in the fact that, if we leave the house then, we are respected that we are heard there and that we are accepted there. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Holy Joseph Cap!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Since when are you a saint?]] Mr Westenthaler, your cynicism is not appropriate here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am against it if we are constantly trying to bring into Parliament's debates a mood which may be possible here and there, but should not be here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He got an order call!]] Again: Yes, to controversy, yes to tough conflicts, but no to insults, to destruction strategies against individuals. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Holy Cap!]] Mr Grosz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e57188	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e57219	Ladies and gentlemen! I will not now be tempted to intervene in the debate between SPÖ and BZÖ, or to discuss further the modalities and causalities surrounding Mr Faul or Mr Grosz. Only, dear Josef Cap, you can already see the following, and it is, I believe, also important to hold this: We could at least partially save ourselves many of these debates. Of course, we are not prepared to do so if someone wants to bring it to this level, but we can spare some of ourselves by allowing Parliament to have a little more transparency as regards the disclosure of functions and incomes. [[Abg. Grill: Foundations, or what?]] Then we would probably have situations in which we could judge: Is that what Deputies XY does – in order not to call a name – all right? Does that fit me – yes or no? It's open then. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, yes!]] [[Abg. Grillic: Foundations?]] The point is: Nothing or far too little is open to us. We do not have the transparency that we actually need in order to avoid debates like this, where we can then interpret whatever you want. I would like to see the debate – the unspoiled debate! – on the occasion to take a few steps – a few small steps, more is not going to happen with us in Parliament, small triple steps – as far as transparency is concerned. Secondly – and that only as a preliminary remark, because I actually want to talk about social matters –: As far as President-in-Office of the Council is concerned, there is a gross misunderstanding. I must say that I am very satisfied with the presidency of Mr Neugebauer – really, without wanting to flatter. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am also very pleased with the chairmanship of Mrs Prammer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nor do I have any problems with the chairmanship of Mr Graf – at least no bigger. The point is not the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, who are particularly concerned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If she laughs at an order call!]] The point is political attitudes that Presidents represent in the public. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And if there are anti-Semitic attitudes, then there is no room for such presidents. I think this has to be done by Parliament... – Please? – Yes, yes, Mr Strache, you can always try it. [[Abg. Strache: The Lord Graf never made anti-Semitic statements in his speeches!]] [[Abg. Strache: These are exactly these assumptions and diffamations that you always do!]] You can always stylize yourself as a victim. [[Abg. Strache: That's exactly what you're talking about! That's the deepest drawer you have! That's the deepest drawer! Put it on week after week, Party Political!]] You are probably the attacked and the poor who are attacked in public. And if you or Mr Graf then make anti-Semitic statements, this is probably the problem of Mr Muzicant and not that of Mr Graf who is attacking him. [[Abg. That's where Mr. Muzicant will have to criticise what he has distributed!]] This is certainly not the case, Mr Strache, even though it is now a speech breakthrough. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Think about what you're saying!]] – I think I am thinking very well and very much, because it is also important for you to consider what you say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] Back to the subject. [[Abg. Weinzinger: What is it?]] [[Call BZÖ:Socialbudget!]] - Right, we're actually talking about the social budget. I am already admitting, Minister of State, that this budget also contains figures on social expenditure, which, if you want to, can also be shown. No cuts have been made. - Good. However, it is clear from this that everything has already been done, which is why it would be very, very quickly, because we know precisely that the debt situation of the federal government – and there are already political statements by some of its promoters – will lead to expenditure being saved in a few years. Where will expenditure on the one hand most be saved? Where are there any cost areas that you can still press and squeak? This has traditionally always been the area of social affairs, because the “hard” areas are not suitable for it. That is why it only helps very little if we can now stand up for the budget: Yes, posts have been raised. – This is also because we know precisely that what is estimated in the budget cannot be found. But this is still not an accusation from my side – except that I wish there was something more realism, a little more realism, as far as the sustainability of the individual measures is concerned. The only thing you have actually put up here as a measure against unemployment is short work. The second thing you want to do now is education. But what has still not been discussed – and there are really good reasons to look at it a little closer – is the question: What groups in the labour market are they, besides those without education, who are now particularly affected by unemployment? We have already discussed this in the Committee: These are, for example, trained young people. I don't know if it's really good when you say trained young people who have completed a teaching and are actually happy that they can go to work now: Hold, correct again – you have to go to further education! The only thing that policy has so far found to be a recipe is that there are other measures in the field of education. This is a point that we must consider, also because labour market policy is certainly not a sufficient measure against what we are currently finding – economic or labour market. We need measures that stimulate the various instruments a little better, and not just labour market policy. I have already said that labour market policy would offer that we are now introducing measures for male young people over 19 years old, because unemployment is rising. In autumn, we are likely to have a rapid rise in unemployment among female young people. Yes, will labour market policy change from one problem group to the next in autumn?- Oh, my God! It's going to be too short! - That's one. Secondly, Mr Federal Minister, I would just like to take a very brief look at what Mrs Schatz has already said, and to explain this with the appropriate proposal: What we need is an increase in unemployment and emergency aid. What we can't need are further sedative games by the various parties, but also by the Federal Minister himself, who says: I'll be there sometime. Now we need these measures: Increased unemployment and emergency aid to a sentence with which people find some sort of outcome. What we certainly need beyond that is a plan when the basic security comes. It is too little for us to be consoled from one stage to the next, and therefore I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Federal Minister, I welcome the fact that you are now taking action so that, at last, the various bodies – AMS, the federal states – can be put on the road to minimum security. Only: We don't have much time. We certainly do not have time to wait until the middle of the next year and possibly then until the autumn or the end of 2010. People need the money now. People are now impoverishing, not only by unemployment, but also by lack of appropriate measures, such as basic security.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e57462	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e57560	Next speaker: Federal Minister Hundstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e57581	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a few points and ask if we are talking about people who are affected by unemployment when we are talking about people who are threatened with unemployment, to conduct the discussion relatively objectively. I don't think we should go through the country with the cue: We will have 500 000 unemployed! I think we should do everything we can to ensure that horror figures, which have been proven by nothing, are not mentioned at all. We have a drop in unemployment at the hour. It is at hour, with today's day, 240 700 people unemployed and about 65 000 are in training. This means that 305,000 people are not currently taking part in the work. At the same time, however, we have a decline in the length of our stay in unemployment by two days. We've got 15 at the age of 15. In May, 252 more open teaching posts than teachers in this country – and that only for the purpose of reconciling them. No question, we have a regional problem. No question, we have a problem with which teaching institutions these are. That's not the subject at all. But I would urgently ask that we make an effort in this whole debate to make a point of fact, and I would also like to ask for a point on the issue of the promotion of teaching institutions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You can discuss all funding models – in all matters. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: About Siemens, too!]] - I'll be right back to Siemens. – You can discuss all funding models, only: According to the old Blum system, we spent €150 million, according to the new funding system we spend € 155 million this year. So we spend €5 million more on business apprenticeships. There are no over-company workshops, they're outside. And I'd ask you to: Let's stay honest! Yes, we have a regional problem with the apprentices. We have a problem that we offer some jobs that apprentices do not necessarily want to learn. Yes, it is. But we were 15 years old. In May 252 more open teaching posts than teachers. And we currently have an average stay of 39 days with an unemployed young person who wants to be an apprentice. Within 39 days, we manage to get a 15-, 16-, 17-year-old back to teaching. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr. Minister, may I send you some apprentices?]] - Yes, you can! – No, Mr Klubobmann, let us remain objective! [[Abg. Bucher: Is this a guarantee statement?]] What did I say? We have regional problems. We have problems with mobility. We have the problem that in some regions of this country we need a few days longer than in other regions. But you can't discuss the basic numbers away. [[Abg. Bucher: You said in 39 days everyone gets...!]] - Yes, that's the current number. That's what the AMS is doing right now. [[Abg. Bucher: On average?]] On average! Mr. Klubobmann, on average! [[Abg. Bucher: This is a difference!]] In our largest concern group – and I do not miss an opportunity to say that anywhere – we have brought 12 000 of the 40 000 people concerned to new jobs with the “Action Future Youth” in March – of course, those who have come to unemployment, no question at all – and in April we have brought 13 000 into new jobs. We also create a turnaround here within 40 days. This works at an hour, which does not mean that it will work in the future. But let us not always put additional horror scenarios on difficult scenarios! Do we try to think together about why in a federal country we have twice as many open teaching places as teachers seekers! Let us consider together how we bring apprentices into tourism! Especially you should be interested in it. [[in the direction of the Abg. Book]] [[Abg. Bucher: I've hired enough apprentices!]] But you know how many tourism companies there are in Carinthia looking for apprentices – and nobody goes. Let us consider together how we can bring about a change! Do we consider, for example, among others... – pay better? [[Call: pay better]] If he does, the Gage doesn't have to be so bad. – Let us consider together how we bring together mobility. That's, I think, an hour's commandment. The programme we are running in active labour market policy, which is about over a billion, which is only going into active labour market policy, is not working in accordance with the principle of foundry, but is about a bundle of measures. However, I am willing to discuss alternatives, because there is no alternative in which we are not currently involved. I am involved in the reduction of working time in industrial enterprises with this active labour market policy, because we are not only talking about reducing working time, but we are also doing something. - That's one point. We are also involved in training programmes for women, and 50 percent of what we have in active labour market policy goes to women's employment. I also worry why, for example, Austrian trade firms in the immediate branch are offering only more part-time jobs. This is just as worrying because I know very well that there are people who, of course, are not always able to live enough of what they deserve there, especially if anything changes in the immediate situation of life. I think we can show that especially among the 15-, 16-, 17-year-olds with the offer of the production schools, the Job Factories, the promotion of teaching places and so on, so with all that there is, of course, those who want to do a training get a training. That's not the subject. The topic is the 19- to 24-year-olds, and for this group we have made the “Action Future Youth” for which we have a part of the budget once again with a “masserl” – in Austria 120 million! – and within the framework of which we strive to comply with the commitment within six months: new job, further training or re-training. And that's what I said before. In March there were 12 000, in April 13 000, who thus came into new jobs. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We also do not forget older workers, because the money has seen from the whole cake a "masserl". € 185 million goes on in continuing training, integration and so on. In other words, this money of active labour market policy, I think, is very well-designed. I say this very consciously here – many of you know it –: If there is criticism of the AMS's course offer there or there, I can only ask you to express this criticism, to convey this criticism, and we will work to get better. All I can say is: The AMS offers training programmes for almost 300,000 people over a calendar year. It is the largest training provider in this country. 1.2 million students go to compulsory school, and there are 300,000 people who are trained, trained, trained and trained by the AMS, no matter what. This happens and, of course, 300 000 cases may have problems – yes; 300 000 cases may be difficult – yes. But we try to get better every day. This is also for clarification. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would be allowed to go into a few more points, care and care money. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Siemens don't forget!]] – Siemens is coming! Mr Westenthaler, I think you know very well that I am not avoiding a subject. We've known each other for too long. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You changed the subject! I just wanted to remember!]] [[Abg. Hagenhofer: You are flail!]] I just want to address the subject of care allowance. I know we're living in a very short time, we're living in a time when we're going to push it all out again, but it's on 1st. January 2009 was raised, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have also not substantially changed the rules of the game. What we have added to the dementia diseases – 25 hours in addition – are the changes we have added to the children, which did not take place in 2003, 2004, 2005. So that's all history – it's happening now. What we are going to decide here in the house for the caregivers from the age of 3 in a few weeks is, I think, also a point that can be seen: Caregivers from the age of 3 will then be insured with the decision-making here in the National Council according to pension and sickness insurance. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can now also address the issue of pensions, pension schemes. I think we can see what this government takes seriously with regard to old people, which this government takes seriously with regard to pension schemes. Mr Dolinschek – forgive me for disturbing you very briefly now – we have balanced, budgeted and recorded the minus that we are expected to have due to declining numbers of employees. Faith You really are that I am so naïve and I look at the one hand at how we have declining numbers of employees, and on the other hand, do not do everything that can to finance the federal contribution accordingly? This has happened for this year, and this has also happened with a certain reckoning for next year. After all, it's 300 million next year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am not at all out of the issue of Siemens, because of course we are also starting a dialogue there. I don't defend Siemens' company at all, I'm not her lawyer, that's not my topic. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But a party comrade is there, the comrade Ederer!]] My concern is the 893 employees; that is my concern. This is a globalized company that sold the mobile phone segment worldwide. This has implications, and now it is about how to deal with these effects also in this IT area, which has only been dealt with by internal orders, namely from the orders of the Federal Republic of Germany's mobile communications division. That's my concern. This is about highly qualified staff – that is perfectly correct: highly qualified staff – which is highly qualified and probably highly sought in a special segment of the IT industry, and the question is: What can you do with these people? How can they be helped? And we'll do that. I don't look away. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who? Can't you tell us?]] – Let yourself be surprised, Mr Westenthaler! Unlike you, I am not an announcement politician, but I try to implement things very objectively. I'll do that objectively – you'll see it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So much to discuss! Her comrade throws out 900 people – and you still defend this here!]] - No, I don't defend it at all! - Point one. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Social Minister does not know what to do! Tell us what you want to do! Comrade Ederer is the boss!]] – Mr Westenthaler, you know exactly where business decisions are made at Siemens and where not. You will not believe that the company decision that Siemens sells the mobile phone sector worldwide has been taken in Vienna. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't know what you're doing to people!]] I want to conclude and make it clear again... – No, not at all! [[Abg. Weinzinger: That you listen to the two Kasperln that way...!]] I would also like to make it clear here that I am going to the disabled buffet
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e57988	Mr. Federal Minister, you are speaking and you wanted to finish your speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58003	Ladies and gentlemen! I am trying to finalise my contribution to the discussion, and the objective conclusion of my contribution to the discussion covers the issue of consumer protection and includes the issue of disabled people. I have already said in committee that there is a minus in the proposal for consumer protection, and in the effective execution there will be no minus. I already said that in committee. We will carry out this by internal reserves accordingly. - Point one. Point two: Mr Dolinschek, I would also like to ask for a point of order when it comes to keeping track of why the Committee's meeting was not held until 23. ==References== I've offered five dates, I've been trying to get five dates. In this case, it should It is not always easy to coordinate five parties, but we now have it for 23. He did it on June. The same applies to the so-called disabled billions: Yes, there is less in the budget, but there will be no less effective implementation – I have already told you in the committee – because we are presenting things accordingly and smoothing them through the House's reserves. That means that you will measure it with the invoice. I have not agreed to the wrong budget, but we have decided on an intelligent budget, and the intelligent budget implementation means that things can also be designed accordingly with the House's reserves. In this sense, I would like you to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58055	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58076	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The parliamentary debate has its ritual, the general debate on the budget in particular. I think those who are really policy-oriented need to know that politics can't do everything. However, he can note that policy has done a lot in recent years. I am pleased to be a representative of the People's Party – we have been active in the government since 1986 and have done social policy with many parties – that what we can show today is a positive project, and we can also talk about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer and several speakers in their speeches have spoken about the fact that the biggest challenge is employment, then that is no question. Perhaps we need to ask ourselves if all our training systems, whether all of our school systems are properly designed, whether they are stored in such a way that after training, young people actually have access to the world of work. We must not just afford this discussion, but we must afford it. Not today, but at least in due time. If you look at employment in Austria, you can see that we have had the highest number of jobs since 1998 in 2008: 3,527 million. However, public officials are not included. We also need to maintain employment because we derive social benefits from employment, from the provision of income. Nothing would go, we would not generate and work out yields. That is why it is also important that we see, for example, the number of pensioners. If we had 1.9 million pensioners in 1998 and 2.1 million today, these are, of course, developments to be discussed and taken into account. A few considerations. Mr Federal Minister, I think there is no country in Europe and beyond, which offers care benefits to people who need help and care, as we do in Austria at seven stages of care, with reference to the situation in question, although I believe that we still have some improvement. I am pleased that improvements have been made in terms of dementia diseases and especially in relation to disabled children, and I would certainly speak of a joint assessment of care benefits and invalidity. I believe that there are synergies, I believe that we can achieve an overall improvement in the review. In this context, of course, it is also gratifying when we hear that we will soon be in the 70. ASVG-Novelle also brings into the social system the involvement of all members of the family who take care from stage 3 onwards. This will cost a lot of money, but is always more human and, above all, much cheaper than when people in homes need to find their care and food. This is a good approach, and I hope that it will be carried along and accompanied accordingly. Mr Federal Minister, we have often talked about the fact that the conflict regulation is an important issue, because there are a lot of people who do not achieve the objectives of professional protection. We do not want to discuss occupational protection as such, which is agreed. But all those who have not achieved the goal of the age of protection and are really ill and unable to work, we must finally, and we have done so, allow access to the pension, because I believe that we owe it to people. Finally, I have one more request: ==References== A special decision was taken on September last year, namely improved access rules for the so-called hackler regime. However, a group is not taken into account, i.e. women in whom child training is included in the pension requirement. Here we still have a limit of 60 months. I think we should think about that too. If we have converted all replacement times to contribution periods, it would also be important, from a family policy point of view, to think of these women who have raised several children in their lives and have a greater accumulation of child rearing times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58136	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58158	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! I think this is always funny when this is being discussed out there, and I agree with Mr Grosz, who is not here now, that the German government's policy of fines is unacceptable to us. For us, however, it is particularly curious when MEPs go out and criticize this – rightly criticised, I have to say that because we condemn it too – and I see an article like that in a newspaper today. [[The speaker keeps a magazine up to date.]] There it says: Wanted-for-eating. But this is no one from the Federal Government, this is a Member of Parliament of Huber who is not here today. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] You have to stay fair in this matter. You can blame the Federal Government for this, but you have to come at your own door too. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ask the President if that is true!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] This Member of Parliament, Mr Huber, was in Italy and submitted a letter to Parliament that these Italians had invited him to discuss issues of mutual interest between Italy and Austria with a view to improving the relationship between the two nations and the parliamentary society of the friends of Austria. So far, so good. Huber is invited, but he is still issuing a fee bill at the Parliamentary Board. That's where the bill is printed, and what's on it? I have looked at this, but I wonder – I have to say that – why original calculations come into the newspaper. That's a little questionable. In any case, it's very entertaining what's on it in terms of fees: 53 € Ristorante Uomini di Mare: three servings of spaghetti with shells. But the best is a Louis Vuitton bag or at least issues in the business Louis Vuitton: 490 €. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Mr President! He's not talking about the subject!]] A nightclub taxi voucher or taxi bill is also cited, with Lapdance. I asked myself about this: It's an download, so it's a clear location. Therefore, please: come first at your own door and then criticize. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] – Mr Huber is not here today, but he will certainly have already read it. But now on the subject. – We have a suggestion for consumer protection, which is not very expensive in budgetary terms. We have – now calm down again; the truth will be tolerated, please! [[Calls and countercalls between representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] That's no need to get upset. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Please, Mr. Westenthaler! How much percent did you do in Vienna at the last municipal council election? - We'll talk later. In any case, we have prepared a motion for a resolution that deals with it – a consumer protection issue – that there is a large number of good luck seals in Austria and that consumers do not know each other. We thank the Chamber of Workers at this point. The Chamber of Workers has made a very comprehensive set of quality marks for food, and it is almost incredible, there are 100 different quality marks in Austria. We wonder how consumers should know. Good signs that no one really understands. Just a short extract of it: There is the AMA biomark with designation of origin, non-originating AMA biomark, AMA seal, Austria Bio guarantee, Austria quality marks for products or services of any origin, Austria quality marks for products and services of Austrian origin, BIKO Tirol, organic crop Austria, organic farm brand, organic sauce, organic food, BIO+ – more than enjoyment!, biofish, bioforce, biocircuit, bioland. So 100 of these quality and trademarks. We hope that this good-quality jungle will finally be cut off, so that it will become easier for consumers to understand, and that consumers, also in the interests of agriculture, can rely on what is on it. There is a great error among consumers when there are so many quality marks from different organisations, which are also controlled by different bodies, and we cannot understand how they are controlled. We have prepared the following motion for a resolution on this subject: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to review the variety of quality marks for their meaning in the sense of consumer protection and to make a reduction to a few of the quality and quality marks that can be understood by consumers.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58259	This motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58347	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58368	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! To calm my previous speaker: It is precisely this point that these awards are regulated that is explicitly referred to in the Government Convention of SPÖ and ÖVP, which is the responsibility of Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, who is no longer here. It is already working on this scheme as it has been notified in an issue. This motion for a resolution has therefore failed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! To one of my previous speakers, to the colleague Tamandl, a statement: Yeah, there's a problem with what's going on with the debtor's deliberations. And this problem is that in Austria, there has never been a structured financing of debt advice. The Federal Governments are primarily responsible, and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Consumer Protection is also responsible for financing it. What we need would be a legal basis – I stress this and stand by it – a basis where banks are also obliged to co-finance the debt consultation. Another clarification. I am very grateful to the Federal Minister for making it clear to the budget that there is no less money than the year before. These internal redeployments, Mr Westenthaler, are possible through the new budgetary law, which you and your group have also agreed to. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There are a number of consumer policy concerns. I would now like to take this opportunity and congratulate the Federal Minister for his press conference yesterday, in which he requested group complaints. I know what I'm talking about: Almost 20 years ago, I signed a criminal notice against WEB building trustee IMMAG for suspicion of commercial fraud and infidelity. At that time it was a damage of about €2.2 billion. Injured were 3,000 persons. We have experienced how difficult it was to achieve criminal convictions. We have experienced how difficult it was to help the injured with a collective complaint. We were faced with the problem of possible limitation – the Salzburg Savings Bank had then given up a limitation period – and we faced the problem of the enormous costs associated with the collective complaint under Austrian law. That is why we believe it is absolutely necessary for the group complaints to be regulated by law, just as the Government Convention has already announced. The consumers who are affected by mass damage – they are customers of banks, insurance companies, travel agencies, pharmaceutical industry, food industry – will thank you. In this sense, I am looking for you and All the political groups in this House are strongly supporting the advance of Federal Minister Rudi Hundstorfer after a group complaint.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58428	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58449	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to make it clear to our honourable Member, Mr Huber. Mr Huber was at the invitation of Mrs Prammer in Italy. There will be an accurate information in the next few days; it will be written. We will make a press release that disproves all the points he has been accused of in the magazine “NEWS. ” That is what I would like to say. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Has the President given a travel order or not?]] - We'll explain all of this in the near future. Everything will be done in writing; you can then read it all in peace. For several months, the situation on the labour market has worsened dramatically for many young people. Many young people still do not find a apprenticeship or a job. You cannot deny this fact either, Mr Federal Minister, although you have recently mentioned in a committee that there are more apprenticeships in four federal states than job seekers. The fact is that this is not the case in five federal states. There is an acute need for action here. I would like to say positively that you have not promised any cuts in apprenticeship funding. We from the BZÖ support the rapid provision of training places to young people, because it is undisputed that more and more young people are becoming available to fewer and fewer apprenticeships or jobs. However, it is not a goal to create new expensive training places, but to create no financial incentives for those companies that are already training apprentices and offering apprenticeships. I believe that the current Blum-Bonus II needs to be revised to give businesses the opportunity and also the financial scope to recruit apprentices. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One of the important points I would like to address here is the training of apprentices. These perform an important educational task and are facing more and more educational challenges. The technical training of this increasingly important function is regulated by the Vocational Training Act within the framework of a training course, which covers only 40 hours of teaching, and after completion one has the right to train practically a career-long apprentice. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this does not meet the challenges of working dual training. Although it is generally regulated in the Professional Training Act that the trainees have an appropriate time for continuing vocational training in the interests of improving the training for apprentices, we know that it usually does not correspond to the reality that the trainers get free from their work and their profession. If I look at the practice, the continuing vocational training of apprentice trainers is reserved for a few large enterprises, and head of training staff is found in a few highly motivated and committed individuals. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us make a concrete legal provision for educational and vocational training in apprenticeship training! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58499	Next speaker: Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58520	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian path we go in apprenticeship training is a good one. It is precisely the dual education that has been and has been very successful and gives young people the opportunity to adapt accordingly to their professional life. This is also the reason why we are very good in international comparisons. The Federal Minister mentioned it in his speech, it is now necessary to strengthen the commitment in the field of active youth labour market policy with this record budget in order to offer young people professional prospects. There are two main actions, namely the “Action Future Youth” for the youth unemployed, in which one has set itself the goal of finding a job or a targeted training or a promoted employment within six months, and the other action concerns – some previous speakers have already mentioned – the training guarantee, especially in the field of apprentices. These include, of course, the over-company teaching workshops. But one thing you have to stress over and over again: These over-company teaching workshops are a replacement training. The apprentice receives the best training in the company, directly from the entrepreneur or from the respective apprentices on site. That's the most important thing. That is why we also need to see that we provide an incentive for entrepreneurs to train apprentices. And that is why it is very necessary for us to continue the path we are now taking. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Especially the revised Blum bonus, our current apprenticeship promotion is already an important point in bringing quality and continuity into operation. We therefore reward those entrepreneurs who have devoted themselves for decades to the topic of apprentices who have trained apprentices for decades – and who have often looked through their fingers at the Blum-Bonus, because they have not been able to create additional apprenticeships because it simply does not produce the company. Of course, there is always a need to take into account the economy. All teaching places in Austria are actually being promoted, and that is 127,000 we have in Austria. On average, each apprenticeship is funded with an average of 230 € per month. There's a lot coming together. As far as the public sector is concerned, it is also important to create teaching places where it is necessary and where young people can be given a perspective even after training. This is important, and this makes active labour market policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58566	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58588	Minister! High house! Especially in the chapter on social, labour market and consumer protection, the Federal Government shows and shows Minister Hundstorfer that despite crisis, despite major challenges and strong financial pressures, the social budget could be kept in such a way that all these challenges can be accepted. Minister Hundstorfer is a guarantee of active responsibility and that people's needs are focused on. In the social budget, I would like to highlight the area of care. This area is characterised by improvements in the fact that there are increases, namely that people are at the centre of attention. So the care money has been made since 1. January 2009 increased by 4 per cent, 5 per cent and 6 per cent in the different stages – in the time of a BZÖ minister the 2 per cent, and at that time this BZÖ minister was already very happy about it. You see, if you change positions and locations, then the political debate also changes. We are concerned with social democracy to put people's needs at the centre and to look at what the needs are. The fact that additional hours are charged for the care allowance for dementia sufferers or severely impaired children is also a very important further measure. Further examples of the fact that we consider social democrats with Minister Hundstorfer to be a guarantee in the government of what improvements are necessary for the people of our country are that the costs of replacement care are taken over and social security is guaranteed. Unlike the Federal Republic of Carinthia. After very long discussions, the Regress has now been abolished in all the federal states, while unfortunately, in Carinthia of the family government, when they are being cared for in institutions, they are reintroduced. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is already the question of how people in Carinthia are getting there. The Federation is strict, with Minister Hundstorfer at the top, measures are being taken to improve – and Carinthia is making a breaker here again and does not care about the Carinthias. This is very bad and condemnable.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58633	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58654	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We know that many people are currently at the centre of concern for jobs; the Federal Minister has also made it his speech. This is why the fight against unemployment is all the more important, and it is also a priority in this budget. It also discussed measures to combat youth unemployment and also measures by the labour market service for better women's employment, whether they be re-training measures or measures for easier re-entry. One important point, which is also part of this chapter, is the visitation support, which has only been introduced in recent years. The responsibility for this has remained in the Ministry of Social Affairs and has not moved to the Ministry of Family Affairs. The more important it is – I am grateful for it, and I say that this must be a fixed part – taking into account the budget, because especially the visitation support and therefore the financing of this support is an important measure for the child's well-being after a divorce, a separation. Because I'm in the family area: Mr Federal Minister, you said in committee that no burden or new taxes on families during this legislative period. I would just like to repeat this sentence because I think this sentence is also sent to Styria as Mr Voves' head of state. He's supposed to be. Don't forget what his Federal Minister says at the federal level: no new taxes for families. Families do not need new taxes, but they need a tax reform, as implemented by Vice-Cancellor Pröll and by the entire government.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58700	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58721	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to express my sincere thanks to Mr Hundstorfer for his material and well-founded presentation, which he offered earlier, because I think that will simply create confidence and that will also give people security. And in economically difficult times, when it is mainly about ensuring social peace, ensuring social networking, that is very important. That is why I would like to thank Mr. Hundstorfer. I would also like to use this opportunity to say thank you to the many works councillors who, in recent weeks, have been working really tirelessly in the businesses for their colleagues in recent months to develop socially acceptable solutions, we all know that nothing is worse than when colleagues are faced with job losses. And I think the works councils really deserved to hear thanks from all of us once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to take the opportunity to remind you a little of what the Federal Government has already done in recent weeks. We tied up a family relief package. Pensions were adjusted higher than before. We preferred the increase in pensions. The waiting period for the first pension increase has been abolished. Unemployment insurance contributions have been removed or reduced and a labour market policy package has been decided which can really be seen. All of this really deserves our highest consideration. It is not always easy to take the right measures very quickly in difficult times, but our federal government really manages it every day. There has also been a great deal of progress in the labour market for people with disabilities. The disabled billions will also be disbursed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I would also like a little more budget, Mr Oellinger, but it has been promised that no single project in the field of labour market policy will be closed. All projects are continued because they simply work successfully because they do very good work. And I think it is quite, very important that offers are also made for disabled people, so that they can lead a self-determined life.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58770	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58794	Mr President. High house! Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer, I would now like to address you as Minister for Consumer Protection, because a concern is particularly important to us. We are experiencing a kind of revolution in society, and more and more people are getting older – thank God. The economy speaks of a “silver revolution”. What does that mean? – These best days are important consumers for our economy. And that is why, I think, it is only right and cheap if consumer protection is also more concerned with the needs of senior citizens. What do we want? – Readable inscriptions on drug and food packs. If you say, ladies and gentlemen, that is what we have already heard, it is not new, we do not hear it for the first time, then I say: yes, unfortunately! But the concern is getting more urgent, because more and more people want to feed themselves healthy, but they cannot decipher the inscriptions, sometimes despite brought reading glasses. Almost a year ago, a large majority of Members voted in favour of a request that small prints on food packs be easier to read. . Now, Mr Minister, we wish to implement and ask for support, including in the European context, because all people – that is the goal – should be able to feed themselves healthyly and to buy themselves stress-free. That's what we want, and we won't let it go.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58824	The next speaker was Mr Keck. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58845	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A very important part of the social budget for the years 2009 and 2010 is that which is reserved for pensions, and I mean the state pensions from the payment procedure, as we have found in Austria for many decades. I think today, in times of a global economic crisis, we see how important this form of old age insurance is, it is state guaranteed and undisputed in amount and disbursement. This is different with the so-called private pensions. In these weeks, those concerned have suffered losses of up to 25 percent of their monthly income. Here our Minister goes a different way with this Federal Government. We raised the minimum pension. In 2009 alone, € 996.2 million will be spent on this area. We abolished the losses due to the waiting period at the first pension increase after the retirement. Women in Karenz will receive a higher pension later on by our decisions. And we have already made the increases in pensions effective in November 2008. All this costs money, ladies and gentlemen. In the form of the federal contribution we spend €8.4 billion for 2009 and €8.8 billion for 2010. I think that is money that is really invested, because unlike private pension funds, this federal government does not turn contributions to citizens, but ensures social compensation. I would like to thank this government and our Minister of Social Affairs for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58885	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - He's not present. I shall then give the floor to the next Members, who have spoken, to Mrs Oberhauser. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58909	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard in the last two days how excellent this new federal government is working, and we will hear it over the next two days. That is why I find the accusations made by the BZÖ, in terms of ministerial or ministerial costs, extremely unnecessary. I just want to remind you: 15. ==References====External links== Fable – we remember, that was a false Magistra –; 70,000 S according to your own designation for a certain Mr. Gerald Grosz. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] A total of 1 million Schillings per month were paid by the chief for his rental workers. But that goes on: 2003 to 2007, Minister Gorbach: Christmas has been already, the old and the new government is in office. It is not known to me that Minister Hundstorfer has had a Christmas tree placed in the office by €1,666 or ordered 2 400 glass jewelry and glassware. Nor is it known to me that he would have ordered a carpet for €6,523. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Or: There were expensive flights during Gorbach's term of office, and the pilots then arrived at Altenrhein, near the home of Minister Gorbach, Frastanz. And the taxi bills from 2004 to 2007 made up 98,855 €. So: Whoever sits in the glasshouse, Mr. Grosz, don't throw stones!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58959	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e58980	Mr President. Federal Minister! We have heard a great deal today, for which this money is used from this budget approach. Mr Federal Minister, I share all my previous speakers' views on training. I might just like to make a critical comment on the training courses here. I believe that there is also a need for an evaluation, because sometimes training goes beyond the actual needs of those concerned. We should really make sure that the money, which is scarce anyway, is used properly. The funds in the social field would be properly used, where we are lacking staff due to demographic developments. I think you've planned a proper budget now. The training of more qualified care staff is simply urgently necessary. We can no longer meet this need with people from abroad or from European countries. I therefore ask here to carry out an evaluation and to see that these trainings are made more precise. As I said, we will also vote in favour of this budget item because it is primarily aimed at creating jobs with this money, and This is the most important objective that we must strive for in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59016	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59038	Federal Minister! Her colleague Reinhold Mitterlehner pointed out this morning at the Economic Chapter that the Austrian Federal Government has not least decided on the medium-sized package due to the present prevailing liquidity shortages of some and not so few enterprises. However, the answer to the crisis must come from the market, i.e. also from the companies, as mentioned by the Federal Minister Mitterlehner. I say it quite honestly, I have my problems when I see how the economy is currently dealing with the prevailing crisis. The companies are facing this crisis by looking at costs only and for this reason alone they are almost without exception freeing older workers. But that really can't be the answer. I believe that some have still not “opposed” what important human resources and the potential of the company’s value added to older workers. That is precisely why, because the economy is taking this path, we are all calling on each other to take policy measures, the older workers – among them already over 40 years old! – offer a social restraint. I therefore believe it is essential that legal provisions be adopted as soon as possible, enabling older workers to take advantage of the instrument part-time, but on the other hand, I think it is equally important to extend the protection of the basis of assessment. At present, the legal system is such that for an unemployed person who is 45 years old. In the case of a person who has completed his life, he shall be taken into account for the calculation of the unemployment benefit of that gross monthly allowance which he referred to at that time. That is, there is such a “primary protection. ” To put it simply: The unemployment benefit, the entitlement of an unemployed person over 45 years of age, can no longer worsen if he acquires a new unemployment claim. However, since this trend is clear that, as mentioned earlier, businesses are also releasing more and more workers over 40 years of age, I think it would be very much at the time to reduce the age limit of this protection provision to 40 years.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59090	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the rest of his group's speaking time is 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59111	Mr President. Federal Minister! Just one more comment to Mr. Hundstorfer: Mr Minister, what we expect of you when you come to the House and come to us are solutions – and not announcements. You yourself have said that you are one who does not announce but presents solutions. On the question of Siemens, however, we have not heard from you today. Let me tell you again: It works there as a boss, as the highest company representative, a comrade of the SPÖ, the Mrs. Ederer, and this allows 900 jobs to be cancelled there, 900 people march into unemployment if you don't think anything quickly. Mr Minister, I am not going to have a solution here and to say that I am thinking anyway and I am going to tell you that this is not the way to deal with the House, but you should have told us what is happening to those people who are losing their jobs. [[OBJECTIVES]] But now to Mr Cap, who made himself here in a way that I almost felt a bit like in a church: The “Engerl Cap” appears here with Engelssunge and strives here for the order and dignity of the High House. – Mr Klubobmann Cap, have you actually forgotten that in the last few weeks you have just gone up to the order-caller in this House, because you have insulted other Members of this House as a Pharisaian from this speaker's desk, who have insulted Rabauk and have received an order call for it every time? This is all to be read in the Stenographical Protocol. And especially you, Mr Cap, are here and measures to be taken by other Members at once, just because you want to defend your privilegeeer Faul?- Oh, my God! Mr Klubobmann Cap, by the way, this is all alone Your problem, which you also have to deal with your voters in the Styria. If you have a Member sitting in this House, who is a double referee, who has a total of €13 000 in cash for nothing work, for a job where he does not work for a second, and who then shows a member of the opposition like Mr Grosz, then this is your problem, whether you take it seriously and that you prevent it and that you take measures once to your honourable Member Faul. However, it is our problem to make sure that this Member, who already does not work as a school director, stays away from this House all the time and does not work. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We can already take a close look at this, Mr Klubobmann Cap, because your colleague Faul is getting a good Gage for this: a good Gage as a Member and a good Gage – 75 percent – as a distinguished school director. If you turned out here, Mr Cap, and so much criticism, I would also have expected you to “deserv” Mr Faul’s speech from the last time, where the speaker’s hand – as can be read in the Minutes and watched on video – would almost have broken this speaker’s hand. [[Ironic cheerfulness and oh-noise at the SPÖ.]] I am now saving myself, Mr Klubobmann Cap, to quote the statements made by Mr Faul, for whom he has received a threefold call for order. I'm saving myself now. But you're a little weak on this one eye when it comes to looking at your own miscarriage. Just as Mr Gaßner, who now stands up and goes, received a call for an order yesterday for him to call other Members tax-free as liars: Is that the style you love, Mr. Klubobmann Cap? Is that all right? – Don’t criticize that! Or if the President-in-Office of the First National Council Prammer of the SPÖ is sitting next to you in the first row when the third President gives orders of order and laughs and laughs when the dignity of the House is violated, and laughs at the calls of order: Is that the style of the high house? - I mean, no. That's not a style, Mr. Klubobmann Cap! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you want to start a style debate here, we will be very happy to have such a debate, and then we should all discuss each other too, and we can also question ourselves – all calls, all arguments. But just go out here and just point to the others and not know that if you point your finger at someone who always points to one – you should know, Mr. Klubobmann Cap! – that’s unfair, and that’s something you really argue with imbalance here. I would really ask you to take care of order in your own ranks, too. By the way, too – and I am now far away, I say this quite openly to defend a FPÖ here from the speaker's desk, and it will not harm my group if I say the following, and not that of the FPÖ: What is happening at the moment to cannibalism, to BZÖ, FPÖ-cannibalism from the SPÖ, just because it is facing one of the biggest electoral debacles in history, that is no longer a cow's skin. This strategy – I can tell you that, Mrs Rudas, election manager, and Mr Klubobmann Cap – is going wrong! This polarization, which you drive from the SPÖ, you can take on 7th. View as an election result on June! Where your SPÖ is, that's the whistling of the roof! You can see that at the election events, you can see this with the people who come to the election events and tell us or tell you – at the Viktor Adler market, when Mr. Swoboda will spit out there. You will experience an evil awakening! And then, after the 7th. June, 8th, 9th and 10th. June you'll be back in Sit in the Löwelstraße and find out: Ui, we've already made a wrong campaign again, because we've thrown to the opposition!, thrown down in a way that it's really no longer tolerable what you're doing there. With all the statements you can discuss – and we have distanced ourselves from so many statements today – but it is here from your side against the two opposition parties, especially BZÖ and FPÖ, a bow is stretched over in a way that is simply no longer tolerable. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] This has to be said clearly, Mr Klubobmann Cap! And on the other hand, you have to defend yourself. Just because you are making a wrong policy, a wrong EU policy, and because the opposition parties, and especially FPÖ and BZÖ, are currently in a larger position and are likely to cut off better in these elections than some believe that they are only going to get into the bottom drawer, to extract fascism Cologne and to point out with their finger to Members who are making calls, but even not to come at their own door, that is really objectionable! If you, Mr Cap, are serious about what you have said today, then the House of Deputies should now go out of here and apologize for what he has left on the speaker's floor to the Member of Parliament Grosz, and also because it is simply not worthy of a school director to perform such performances here in the House. You have to say that clearly. You now have the opportunity, Mr Faul, to come to the speaker's desk: We're expecting your apologies. Perhaps this would also be good for the Styrian and for the climate there in school, because the students there, whom we are also in contact with, are very surprised at what Mr School Director here in Parliament is all about – and above all, as he does. So, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, wait for the 7th. June from: There you will get your election result, your defeat, and then you can do a little strategy exercise again. Stop evading others when you sit in the glasshouse yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59244	Next speaker: Mr Faul. Set speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59293	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think the foreign exchange is going back to normality and de-escaling. Mr Federal Minister, thank you very much for your clear position on this budget. And as a senior speaker, I would also like to thank you for truly conveying to the seniors in Austria the feeling that in the budget provision for these budget adjustments and the pension adjustments in the indices as you have planned, we are taking care of and thus maintain the purchasing power of the seniors in Austria for the future. I believe that this signal is also a beautiful signal that goes into the EU and that will probably also move many people, older people of our group, to vote in favour of social democracy, because it guarantees that the security of the elderly is guaranteed in many respects, for example, as regards the promotion of purchasing power, the safeguarding of pensions, the safeguarding of the health system and much more. Mr. Federal Minister, the pensioners are therefore so grateful because you really give them the feeling that this old-fashioned form of pension insurance through the Generational Treaty is more guaranteed for them and can thus have greater confidence in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59341	Next, Mr Steier. Fixed speaking time: also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59363	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The impact of the global crisis on the economy, the financial sector, the labour market, but also on the social sector and the counter-controlling measures of the 2009 and 2010 budget were very present here in the House in recent days. Financial crisis and economic downturn have a significant impact on the situation of consumers and their consumption behaviour in goods and services. Increasing unemployment and short-term growth lead to: that many families are already affected by reduced incomes because of the economic crisis. Therefore, the more important it will be in the coming months More protection measures for consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, just as we have managed to decide a bank package in a relatively short time, it must also be possible to come up with rules for the financial market so that the customers of banks and financial service providers can no longer be pulled over the table. It is therefore necessary to continue the existing information campaigns in the field of investment. In the future, clearly stricter rules for financial service providers and rules for liability in case of consultation errors will be necessary. It must therefore no longer happen that lack of transparency in the case of credit costs, misinformation in the case of investments or surprising loss of accounts will cause whole families financial distress or even their existence. I'm allowed They therefore request that this budget be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59405	Next, Mr Lipitsch. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59426	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In the field of consumer protection, I would like to refer to the annual report of the Internet Ombudsman. 69 percent of households in Austria have Internet access to all related problems, as we have probably noticed each of us. More and more use this connection for sale and purchase. Main clients are 25 to 34-year-olds, and the biggest problems arise in advance or in these free offers. That is why the Internet Ombudsman has made the task of removing possible problems in advance through information. Consciousness, problem prevention, problem solving, quality improvement and self-regulation, these are the tasks of the Internet Ombudsman. In 2008, there were 7 353 victims with a total damage level of more than € 1 billion. 88.4 percent of these claims could be done positively by the Ombudsman for the consumer. 66 percent of complaints concern business cases abroad. For this non-profit institution – and here also the Federal Chamber of Labour pays a large part of it – 90 000 € are reserved in the budget. I thank the Internet Ombudsman for his excellent work, but thank you too, Minister Hundstorfer, for this is an important contribution to the protection of consumers in Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59464	The next item is Mr Hell. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59485	Mr President. Federal Minister! Consumer policy and consumer protection are faced with global economic and social change facing major challenges. The daily situation of consumers has changed dramatically in recent years. Certain event for this situation is the change in the financial and economic crisis. Therefore, there has also been a very strong change in the advisory bodies of the Chamber of Labour in recent months. In the fields of money/credit, there were increases of 20 percent in requests and care, in the area of insurance by 7 percent. The very strong increase in requests and complaints about collection offices of plus 35 percent also shows the impact of the financial crisis. The removal of consumers from different services and information on the Internet was already an essential issue in 2007. It also makes the telephones run hot in the consumer protection department of the Chamber of Workers in 2008 and 2009. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The rapid technological development and the increasing economic and social changes require constant adaptations and improvements in consumer protection. By an active consumer protection, we protect consumers from decoupling and misleading! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59524	No one is reported in the word anymore. This is why this subject area has also been completed. I am now interrupting the session by tomorrow, Thursday, 28th. May 2009, 9 a.m. After resumption of the negotiations, the part will continue to be taught, art and culture. The sitting was suspended. [[19:34:44]] [[The meeting was held on Wednesday, 27. May 2009, at 7.35 p.m. and on Thursday, 28 May 2009. On 9 May 2009, continued at 9 a.m.]] [[09:00:57]] Continued the meeting: Thursday, 28. May 2009, 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59577	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll take the interrupted 23. National Council meeting again. On today's day, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Haberzettl, Dr. Bartenstein, Großruck, Praßl, Ing. Schultes, Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein and Mag. Lunacek. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59607	I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Defence and Sport Mag. Norbert Darabos will be represented by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Doris Bures. We continue in the budget consultation. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59645	For today’s session day, a block-time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been decided, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 122 minutes, FPÖ 108 minutes as well as BZÖ and greens per 95 minutes. The design of the debates is known. [[09:02:01]] Education, art and culture UG 30: Education UG 32: Art and culture
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59682	We now come to the negotiation of the part of teaching, art and culture. First of all, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz spoke with a desired speaking time of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59709	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Gentlemen, as far as I can see, on the crowd. First of all a nice good morning from here! A good day begins with a good motion for a resolution. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gahr: This is an old shame!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The background for this is clear: One knows that the relationship with music, learning a musical instrument for the development of the intellect of a child is important. I think that should be known in the meantime. Moreover, Austria is famous to be a cultural nation, especially a musical country. With the approval of this request, you as the High House can set a clear sign today or in the context of the votes that we are actually a musical nation and want to stay. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am already aware that some things, especially music schools, also fall into the competence of the countries, but one may nevertheless be completely reorganised, i.e. also musical education. There must also be no insistence here from the outset in a world of thought between the federal government and countries. I would also like to return to this later in the context of the general debate on education. Education policy or school policy or teacher policy, or the discussion between employers and workers, on which the discussion has become more mediated a few weeks and months ago, has also happened to me as a Formula One race. The Federal Minister has been sitting in a bolid, has been brewed with crying engine and squeezing tires, but in the first curve there have already been engine damage and gear damage or similar. Since then, there is actually only the same answer to every request. We ask: What is happening in the educational reform of an administrative reform, where the Court of Auditors has told us that there would be a lot to save there? Or: What is happening in teacher training? – The answer is: There is a working group, a working group for it. Now I do not want to bore you with the short poem about the working group – perhaps a four-liner will come to mind with my colleague Grossruck – but paralysis has occurred at the moment. I have the stupid feeling that this coalition in education policy will go absolutely nothing further, for worldly reasons. Education policy and cultural policy are, in addition to media policy, the only field where ideology is really still being pursued; Education and culture even united in a ministry. As I read, for example, in the administrative reform working group at the school authorities, the Federal State of Lower Austria has already raised serious concerns, and I believe that education should in fact become a general issue in the country. I think that's like saying that, for example, national defence is something that concerns the entire Republic, and then you say: The whole education, even the Matura, all this should be national! – No, I mean, there must be clear respect for the absolute equality of opportunity for all federal states so that the results remain the same. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore believe that the great coalition of black and red is not able to carry on a bit of education policy, although it would be so bitterly necessary. This is not just a matter of studies, where one can and must be quite shared about some of the statements in the PISA studies. It is not all true what comes from there, and sometimes the impression comes up, there are practically things ordered there, so that it looks like you have to make a reform in this or that area when it comes from BIFIE or elsewhere. The question of the administrative reform which the Court of Auditors has also given us in the luggage is, however, a very serious matter. I would think that it would also be good for this coalition government not to stop, but to shut down education policy and declare it a coalition-free area. Otherwise, nothing will go further in this legislative period. There are approaches that are well-social and social-political majority. There are also materials that still have to be affected by the two-thirds majority, in particular what the school administration is doing. There would have to be a general conversion. I hear – as has often been stated from here – that education for our children is supposed to be the highest good, but nothing will happen, for ideological reasons only. There is a clear need to avoid the fronts. One last, since here the “red light environment” appears before me. [[The speaker points to the red flashing lamb on the speaker's desk.]] I think it should be discussed after the Minister of State has said that she wants antifascism... [[Abg. Krainer: Very bad and tasteless joke!]] – You don’t understand a joke very well, but I would like to explain it to you. – The Federal Minister would therefore like to make an antifascism education in schools. That is also important. But I think something else has to take place. Education against extremism and violence must generally take place in schools. If you, Mrs Federal Minister, say here that it is only about the antifascism education that belongs to this funding, I refuse: It must also be made clear to all students in the context of school education that any extremism and, above all, any violence in the political debate must be rejected. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Otherwise, it seems to me that then, if the Ministry of Education – and you yourself – commissioned a study, in this case on the student's electoral behaviour, this question of electoral behaviour would actually be the case of a party-political secretary-general. What interests the Ministry of Education, who chooses students, is what I wonder, because there is no sense of meaning for that. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] I would not take the dangerous path of converting the Ministry of Education into a Ministry of Education, perhaps even then into a Ministry of Education. Our children are too valuable for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59851	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e59980	Next, Mr Mayer. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e60002	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not the one who quotes the former Minister of Finance – not at all, on the contrary – but I'm still doing it to join the previous speaker a little bit, and repeat his words: A good day begins with a good budget!, and in the field of education you can say that very well and precisely. Although hard to fight – that is already admitted – but where, if not in the field of education, has a budgetaryly large throw actually succeeded? The educational programme presented by our ministers today, which has now been documented in figures in the field of education, can be seen: starting from the improved preschool with the compulsory kindergarten year – where much is still to be done, but where a first, important step has been taken – on improved language promotion in schools, in kindergartens and the smaller classes which are expanded to reduce the schooling maximums year after year, to the targeted expansion of day care. The new paths in middle and secondary level 1 will certainly still lead to discussions – perhaps even today. It was an important step in bringing movement to this secondary level, which has been, so to speak, stoned in recent years. The development of education standards, which no one who is a little concerned with education is calling into question, and also the sub-central Matura – of course, this path is important and brings us European maturity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With more small groups teaching, including at vocational schools, and with the teaching and matura project already under way, we are really committed and forward-looking with an educational package that has been tied here, to the work which, as far as the past years are concerned, is looking for the same. These measures, ladies and gentlemen, will also help to reduce the costs – which have just been updated in the last week – in the field of remedial assistance, which affects very many parents. There are parents who are already fighting in the folk school to make a one with the help of a two, including that, and there are also students who have to get a sense of relief because they are completely misguided into an AHS in our school system, only by taking influence, and who are being whipped through with all violence, so to speak, and so on. But I don't mean that. But with smaller classes, with stronger individual support, with more opportunities that teachers will now have, it will also come to pass that those who have actually been dependent on after-help will no longer need them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would nevertheless like to take two things out. First of all, I have to say – I don't do this otherwise because I know that we can only push things forward together in the government, in a coalition –: I have to reject Mr Amon's proposal quite firmly, namely that we should return to a study of admission, even to a test of talent from the second class of folk school. Mr Amon, this is still going back to the Gehrer era! That can't be! We need exactly the opposite! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need exactly the opposite! It can, and I really appeal to the open forces within the People's Party – I know, there are them, and I know they see them that way – so don't go on. We have four different areas in secondary school 1 with special school, primary school, AHS and now with the New Secondary School. This must be an expensive and inefficient system. All studies show and underline: The other way is the right one! All pedagogues working there say: The other way is the right one! Let us go this cost-effective way together and create a common school, which also improves the opportunities for the talented! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: What for? You're gonna throw the money out the window!]] Because, Mr Hornek – I know you're certainly an educational expert – has to move in. [[Abg. May. Gässner: Here is our educational expert!]] [[Abg. Hornek: Yes, but in the wrong direction!]] A second area I would like to point out is that of the new teacher training. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hornek.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it will be the central challenge for all of us to create the conditions for the next years – through a new right of service, through the new forms that will follow now, with smaller classes and with the demand for improved teacher training – in order to motivate young, committed people to return to the teaching profession. We need requirements that can also motivate young male colleagues to get there. It is known that, when the great wave of retirement begins, the 120 000 teachers now active will retire in the next eleven, twelve years to the 60,000. That is why we urgently need corresponding young people. We can only do this with a corresponding service law reform, which we must lead in the way. We must have higher starting salaries. We need significantly more teaching commitment at the beginning, that is not a question, but we must take this step, with an offensive image campaign for the young motivated people, who are also socially competent, so that they can again see meaning and hope in becoming teachers or teachers. Again, the opposite happened. I remember that the colleague and former minister, Elisabeth Gehrer, sent a letter to the Matura classes five years ago, where it was said: Don't become teachers, because the prospects are very bad! – The exact opposite is the case! Ladies and gentlemen! We must do everything we can and motivate young people to enter this profession so that we can guarantee the quality of education that we are putting on the road today for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e60139	Next, Mrs Haubner will speak with a desired 6 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e60160	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Bundesminister, you received a prize from a large Austrian daily newspaper last night for your educational commitment. It is true that at the beginning of your term of office you have started with a lot of elan and a lot of courage to do things again and again. They have realized that we have a rather inefficient education system, into which we are very much in place, but where we do not get so much in comparison to that. They have recognised the need for fundamental reforms. They do not hesitate to take up good ideas from the opposition or from a previous government, such as the reduction of the high school or the free teaching with Matura, which is now being implemented throughout Austria. They do not hesitate to try new ideas, such as the common school, to introduce educational standards, and so on. You also want teachers to be even more motivated in the future that children like to go to school and learn, you want more autonomy for directors, a common education for educators and especially better jobs for teachers. But the reality, ladies and gentlemen, looks a little different. The best example of this is the discussion we had a few weeks ago, over two hours of more work or more teaching time for teachers. This discussion has overlaid all the real problems and related solutions in the school sector. There has actually been a negative attitude towards teachers and a negative attitude towards school and education policy. What is on the table as a trade union package is not even a good compromise. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have been or are being inhibited by your government partner. I think the New Middle School is not exactly the favorite of your coalition partner, and also your own Federal Chancellor keeps leaving you in the rain again and again. If Mr Mayer says that this educational budget has achieved a great deal, I have to say: This educational budget, especially what the Minister of Education wanted for the surplus, is not a big throw, but it is a mogel pack, because de facto she wanted € 525 million and got € 155 million. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Especially because of this mogel pack, I think that in the future more construction sites will be broken down which you will have to process. In my opinion, a construction site that will attack relatively quickly is the school expansion programme. For the 2009/2010 school expansion programme, you will receive €300 million. Considering that the BIG is responsible for this, but that, during this period, €240 million of less revenue has to be received due to the support of the rents, you wonder how this should be done. And if that's what it is. It is true that one can tell the newspapers that the National School Council Vice-President of Carinthia Rudi Altersberger said that 80 percent of our schools in Carinthia alone were closed because the situation is a mistake in terms of jobs in terms of minimum equipment, I think it will not be much different in the other federal states either. That's why I'm really wondering: How will you, Mrs Federal Minister, deal with the much lower budget? A second construction site, which is also unsolved from our point of view, is the classes with a very high proportion of children of non-German mother tongue. This is particularly true in urban areas, not only in Vienna, but also in Upper Austria and other federal states. There it is often up to 90 percent. And if you are very honest, then admit – and if you talk to the teachers, then tell you – that social and linguistic integration is hardly possible and that above all no more quality lessons are possible. It cannot be that the trend to give the children in private schools – through the parents who can afford it – continues to grow. I would therefore really ask you to give an answer on this matter. We of the BZÖ have said that we want the classes to be so divided that no more than 30 percent of children of non-German mother tongues are in the classrooms to ensure quality lessons. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I think it would be more important to take new steps to think about elite schools again. The third construction site, which has already been addressed by my previous speaker, is the school administration: the multi-tracks, the parallel rails in the area of school administration, the different responsibilities of the federal government, country and municipalities. There would be and is a high potential for savings, which could be raised by bringing together responsibilities. Here you have us, Mrs Federal Minister, absolutely as a partner, namely, when it comes to abolishing district school councils and including all national agendas in so-called educational directorates. But you have to start now! Mrs Federal Minister Schmied, I still believe in your willingness to design school in the sense of the opportunities and strengths of our children and with very dedicated teachers. I fear, however, that you will continue to die, because your own party does not carry much with the whole heart. Your own Federal Chancellor will be You're sure to leave it in the rain sometime, and your coalition partner isn't always convinced of what you want to do in the field of education policy. In this sense I have little hope, but there are many things where we will support you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e60250	Next speaker: Mr Amon. I would like to have a speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e60271	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we can congratulate on the budget chapter. The budget is sufficient, from my point of view, to continue the necessary reform of education policy. It is the Minister for Education and the Minister for Finance. Minister expressly thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for expressing this important emphasis in the budget. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think we have a number of important educational policy issues to clarify. We have – and I think you have to be very careful – indeed, as Mrs Haubner has rightly said, the debate over the last few weeks has done a lot of damage to the image of the teacher's booth, because so many messages, which have been consciously or unconsciously spread here, have not done well to the teacher's image, and I therefore believe that it is very crucial that we together do everything we can to satisfy the image of teachers who do great things every day in the classrooms. I really think that's necessary. However, this also includes proper dealings with the school partners. Mrs Bundesminister, I am very grateful that you initiated this and that it was possible that the school partners had reached an agreement yesterday in connection with the school autonomous days. We welcome the agreement, and I think that we are putting it into a law as quickly as possible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Indeed, we face a number of serious challenges in the field of education. Mrs Haubner said that the New Secondary School was not the favourite of the ÖVP. – I would not be obliged to do so because, as you know very well, ladies and gentlemen, there is not a new secondary school, but there is a wealth of different school attempts which are subsumed under the name ‘New Middle School’, and I believe quite the contrary that there are some very interesting models in it. But it should also be said that the honesty is half and the good order is half: It makes sense to look at these school attempts in peace, to evaluate them at the end of the day, and then to decide what we are doing in the regular school system, because otherwise, attempts make no sense. I believe that there is, in principle, consensus on this. We have the great challenge to face – and I believe that Mr Mayer von der SPÖ is here – that in particular we must place great importance on the individual promotion of children and young people. Our opinion is also expressed in praise of the fact that education standards are now being implemented. But precisely because we are doing this, Mr Mayer, because we stand up for it and say that there should be uniform standards, with sub-central elements, for example in the mature test, but also in the secondary level I and II, precisely because there should be uniform standards, this must not remain a toothless instrument. The idea is to ensure that the diplomas acquired by our children and young people at the Austrian schools are also valid that the completion of a folk school must have at least the same value as the completion of the other folk school. This is precisely what the education standards are all about. It is about giving the schools feedback: Do children and young people reach or fail to achieve the objectives of education? It is not an apriori thing if you take action to ensure that, after some time, after some time of feedback, there must be consequences if the required educational goals of the ministry are not achieved at a location. That is why, ladies and gentlemen! It is already a very essential element in connection with the transfer to primary or secondary school: Do we have a validity, we have a validity of the diplomas? I agree with you: Today we have a relatively large social selection in the education system. I absolutely share this analysis; that is right. That is why it is also crucial – and there is no modern educator today who does not believe that the meaning is – to pick up children where they stand: with their talents, with their inclinations, with their interests and with their performance. But especially when you take this seriously, the social selection is the completely wrong approach, then the right approach is to look very well: Where does the child stand with its performance? What about his talents? What about his interests? That must be the crucial point in the education system – and not what parents accidentally learn, have acquired or are employed, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we also face major challenges in the area of migration; no question. I do not share the opinion of Mr Haubner that in a class the proportion of students with non-German native language should be only 30 percent, because from my point of view it is not the mother tongue, but the linguistic ability of the child. That is the decisive! That is why Elisabeth Gehrer has rightly said that we must introduce such a thing as language stands, we must check where the child is in the language, and then we decide: Does the child need individual support in linguistic terms, or is it able to follow the instruction from the outset? I too believe that we face challenges in the field of school administration. We've got a couple of double-tracks there. I am thinking, for example, of compulsory school departments in the Office of the State Government and the Council of State Schools. Of course, you can eliminate these double-tracks. I would only warn very much because the child pours out with the bath, because it is partly given the impression that the abolition of the State School Colleges and the District School Councils saves anything. These are institutions which actually cost nothing but which, for example, when you think of the colleges, are legitimate bodies by country elections. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] It's crucial that we save where we have double-tracks. It is not about making reforms simply, but it must make sense, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that just the events of the last few weeks show, Mrs. Federal Minister, that we also need a more political education. Now I am not the one who believes that if one introduces some kind of subject in one level or another, it automatically has a positive impact on general political education. But I think it is a fundamental consensus – and I am glad that this is actually seen by all political groups – that we need a more political education. We must take this cross-sectional task, which the educators have, very seriously. We must, I believe, also strengthen with project work and in the same way promote political education in order to clearly oppose any form of extremism, radicalism. Of course, this must be a start in schools. I believe – and I say that in conclusion – that we can do much more in the Austrian education system if we say goodbye to the fact that we only look at things ideologically. Let's try to define goals! Let us try to define goals by defining where we want to go. Then it's a little easier. It is an offer: Let us try, together, to disarm a little bit here and bring a little more materiality into the discussion! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e60403	Mr Walser has now come to speak. 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e60462	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! It is rather strange when Mr Amon calls for an ideology-free debate. Mr President, I am afraid it is your group, it is you who are opposed to this ideology-free debate. If you and my colleague, Mr Mayer, are celebrating this budget as a big throw today, that there is more for education, then I must say: We have repeatedly pointed out that of course this is not the case that the money you make available more is not even enough to pay the teachers' salaries, the biennials jumps! It's less there – and no more! Mrs. Schmied, take care of very, very, very good when colleague Amon praises the New Secondary School and says that there are interesting models there! – Mr Colleague, Amon, I know how the wind blows! They are thinking of what is going on in my home country, in Vorarlberg, over the stage – and this, please, has nothing to do with the objective of the common school at all! Therefore, caution is on the spot. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] School is a difficult field; we all know that. There have been unfortunate incidents. I am thinking about the drive of the students from the school Albertgasse to Auschwitz. And the unfortunate incidents – anti-Semitic – that existed there have led to the exclusion of a student from the school Albertgasse. I think this pedagogical is a wrong path. There are other ways to respond in a pedagogical way. That's actually a bankruptcy statement. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, there is a field where such incidents belong, and this field is here. If a man like Martin Graf is such a detachment – you can’t actually say “detgleist”, because Martin Graf has pre-exceeded it, he didn’t actually make any locust out of his conviction; we’ve also warned about him in his election – then I would be in favour of tougher action. There I could quite imagine an exclusion from the President's office, in order to say that clearly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Amon, perhaps a small correction: If you say that everyone is for more political education, I can point out that one has spoken against it in the last few days, and it is not by chance the third President of the National Council Martin Graf, who is opposed to more political education in schools. And we're all allowed to guess why this is so. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, I can remind you that we warned you in October about Martin Graf's election and that they did not actually show any insight. You can't show them to this day, if Mrs. Maria Fekter means – quote –: "College Graf has distanced himself. In his work here in Parliament, Mr Graf never gave a similar idea or provided an opportunity to suspect that he would share these ideas. We therefore accept the FPÖ’s proposal to nominate Mr Graf for the office of the Third President, although we will carefully observe how he will deal with it.” – Quote. What have you observed in the last days, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? Isn't that clear what happened? Don't you have the feeling that consequences are necessary now? I can remind you that you are now celebrating as a critic of Martin Graf, but it is exactly you who are preventing a solution. You are voting against the fact that in this House we find a common solution to this unbearable state that we have a third President of the National Council with such a thought. [[Abg. Hörl: Can you say something about the budget?]] It's nice that there are also reasonable people in your ranks. I can quote Foreign Minister Michael Spindelegger: “From my point of view, this is an indebted derailment.” Indebted, I would like to stress that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, most of you are orientated by the former Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, who meant that Count should apologize, that he should withdraw it most fittingly, that it would not be a question at all, it would not fall from the crown at all. – So in good German: Swamm over, he's gonna apologize! - That's not how it is! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As Foreign Minister Spindelegger said, what has happened here is inexcusable, and this must have consequences. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: No event legislation!]] Mr Graf himself stressed that he did not feel bound to the basic antifascist consensus of this republic. He spoke this for his party and said – I quote him literally –: “We do not see this as the basis of our democracy, the basic antifascist consensus.” This is what we see, Mr Graf. We see this, ladies and gentlemen, in this House. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How long do you want to watch this drift here?- Oh, my God! And: It is not only Mr Graf, but also Mr Strache, who is unbearable. I would like to make it clear: Heinz-Christian Stracheist a “hetzer” and a “Rabauke” – to say that clearly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] If you are upset, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ – and, Madam President, if you consider a call for order – you: That's a quote, and that's from a FPÖ mayor from Vorarlberg. It has been Burkhard Wager from Vandans, the Martin Graf in this This is what Heinz-Christian Stracheso referred to as the case. [[Abg. Oils: Bitch!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Well what now?- Oh, my God!]] A good day begins with a good budget, Mr. Rosenkranz meant, and a model before... – with a good resolution motion, right, and he has referred to the importance of music. [[Objection to the FPÖ]] I would recommend a different music for your children than you obviously enjoyed it, because if this musical attraction gives the result as we have heard it here, then good night Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's a freak! That's a joke!]] Finally, there are problems in the field of education. It has been pointed out several times that private re-help in Austria is one of the major problems – 140 million euros parents now have to spend for private re-help. The solutions are obvious, Mr Amon! The solutions are here, for example, in the whole day school sector, which is urgently expanding, which belongs to a comprehensive introduction. Please stop with the ideological principle “Njet!”, with the ideological refusal of any reform! Help us bring this system so far that we can be proud of it and that we do not need to generate internationally, as we do at present. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: But go! ... Österreich-Beschlempfung!]] In this regard, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e60667	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e60726	As far as the quotations in this House are concerned, I would draw attention to the fact that I have already pointed out in the Presidency that I should also be careful when quoting. [[Abg. Neubauer:... Ordinance call, Madam President!]] But we stayed there so much that we did not give orders. Next, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e60757	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In my contribution, I would like to start by referring to the chapter on education and then to the subject of art and culture a little later. With this budget, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that we can step by step and consistently implement the educational projects, as we have set out in the government programme and have undertaken them. I am in favour of a fact-based education policy – and I believe that I have demonstrated this over the last two and a half years – and I am pleased to be working with you, especially in the teaching committee with all the innovative forces in the country, and I am pleased that we are also able to reach joint decisions and decisions here in relation to projects beyond the government parties. I believe that this is essential in education policy. In a few days I will be able to send you the first National Education Report. I can already say that the experts and I myself are of course at your disposal – in the teaching committee, perhaps also in the subcommittee of the teaching committee – in order to discuss these points in detail with you. It's about very, very much: It is about the future of our country, and above all, and I would like to support it, it is about a competitive, publicly funded education system. It has already been said by my previous speakers about the objectives of education policy and, I think, there is broad agreement when I think of the statements made by honourable Members Mayer, Mr Amon or also by Mrs Haubner. The goals are, I think, clear: We need more equal opportunities, education must no longer be inheritance jobs in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need – and an attitude in this regard is important – the basic access that all potentials of society should and must be used. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] Here it is essential that we, in particular, the socially weak layers, do not leave the children with migration background. For me, therefore, integration is also a very strong educational task. Thirdly, we need to ensure that, after completion of compulsory school, basic skills are well taught. It makes me thinkful and concerned when we learn that 8 percent of 14-, 15-year-olds are no longer in the education system and that one third of young people are at risk, so they can't really read, write and calculate. – That is, I think, a dramatic finding of the education system! We have to make it – fourthly – that professional decisions are more successful, that the decision-making process is better, because if I look at the drop-out quotas, especially in the field of vocational education, I see that there is a lot of potential lost and it is also economically absurd. On the fifth point, and this has been referred to above all by Mr Amon, we are talking about teachers. It is about their motivation, but of course it is also about their performance. It's about career opportunities. But we also need to think about exit scenarios if there or there it is not really possible to achieve the performance. With this budget, there is a set of measures to be implemented, and I would simply like to mention the ten most important points and projects, since we have already discussed them in detail in the Committee on Budgets: smaller classes, small groups – important point! – the focus is also essential in the field of vocational education, vocational schools, day care, better language support – a very clear yes; every child who goes to school in Austria must dominate the German language first-class –, teaching and matura, education standards, competence-oriented maturity examination, middle management at the federal schools, programmes for prevention of violence and promotion, especially for private schools in free management. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Brosz]] – These are the ten essential points from my point of view, which can be realized and covered by this budget. But then there are three major strategic projects in the field of education, which unfortunately cannot be implemented by a specialist minister alone, but it is important to work for them without wanting to get into the role of the Sisyphus or a Jeanne d’Arc - and I say that too. It is necessary to see clearly who is all required in the implementation of these projects. First point: From my point of view, new service and remuneration rights are central. We need decent remuneration, attractive service rights, higher entry salaries and, of course, a higher teaching obligation for teachers. That's what we've got to do. There is a Council of Ministers decision to do this, but you know that there is, of course, a need for social partnership negotiations that we are now about to start. As a time horizon for the introduction, we made our move in September 2010. Second point – Mr Rosenkranz has already mentioned it –: New training for all in the teaching profession. There will be a first interim report by the expert group at the middle of the year, the final report at the end of the year, then the wide debate will begin. Minister Hahn's declared goal and I am sure it is to put training on a new foundation during this legislative period. The third point – central to the effectiveness of the public education system, and there is a first-class paper from the expert group, where President Moser, Wifo and IHS, in particular, worked on the subject of administrative reform: All the key points are on the table, but I don't think I need to do more here, which forces are going to be effective away from a fact-based logic. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Call... Upper Austria!]] Here, it would be necessary to work together at all levels – communities, countries and federations – not only in budgetary terms, but above all in terms of management, responsibility and effectiveness, to put the school administration on a modern basis and to free the building-up organisation of double-tracks, multi-competences and a confusion of competence. I have a very clear position here, but I share your scepticism regarding the feasibility of this, Mrs Haubner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e60827	Next, Mrs Mag. Rudas with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e60848	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Like a society, decide in the classroom. And here, Mr Amon, I am not in favour of making everything quiet and relaxed, quite the contrary. The Austrian school system depends on the fact that the world is changing and the demands for an education system are also changing. And there is nothing to be done in peace, but it should be supported by the Minister's reformist! That is why I also ask my colleagues, especially the educational speakers.The school system consists of several groups, it consists of dedicated teachers, no question at all, but there are also the consumers, and these are the students and also the parents. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Neubauer and Dr. Strutz]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: (showing on the ranks of the ÖVP) Look there!]] And it cannot be that reform measures depend only on a group and your voting behaviour depends only on one group. We must, because we are representatives, look at the entire school system and the needs of those concerned, and these are also the parents and the students. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Neubauer]] And here I ask for more consideration and more support from our minister – from Social Democracy she has. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: But not very!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Furthermore, I would be – these terms have often liked here – a bit cautious with the terms suitability, inclination tests and aptitude tests and skills at ten years of age. I don't know how you did, but at the age of ten, I haven't noticed that I'm going to study once or that I'm going to be a politician. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I haven't seen it at the age of ten, but maybe you were, then you were particularly talented ten-year-olds. I would like to congratulate you very warmly, but I would be a little more careful with this. When we listen to educational experts, but also psychologists, we learn that suitability and inclinations often develop much later. [[Abg. Amon: Change!]] So let's not look at desires and suitabilitys, but at interests and that we want to have a school that is fun for children, and, as I said earlier, how a society is, we decide in the classroom – we simply act in the same way that we have happy children. [[Abg. Amon:... School?- Oh, my God!]] Then, I think, we can assume that happy children can and do what their interests match. That is why I ask for more movement on the issue of the common middle school, and I ask for more movement as far as day care and all day schools are concerned, because the world has changed. Today, parents often don't learn with children, they can't, and I mean, the state has to intervene. That is why a modern school system needs to focus on the demands of consumers, and these are the parents and the students. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e60957	Mrs Mühlberghuber is now speaking with a desired speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e60978	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Federal Minister, your favorite project is the New Middle School. The extension of the New Secondary School from the school year 2009/2010 to more than 240 locations with around 20,000 students costs €26 million. In reality, the New Secondary School – or also called the Total School – is a mixture of primary and secondary school. In rural areas, primary schools have a very high level of performance. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hornek.]] One of the reasons is the low proportion of students with a non-German mother tongue, another reason is also the performance levels. Yes, performance levels are important. A good student is not underprivileged and a weak student is not overemphasized. Mrs. Federal Minister, put up the primary schools and let the gymnastics be! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You would save €26 million! A large amount of financial savings also resulted in an Austrian-wide reduction in the number of district and state school councils and a restructuring of the inspection – is already in order. [[Abg. Riepl:... with this announcement!]] A reorganisation of the school administration cannot be started early enough. The Court of Auditors has also identified a million-height savings potential in the field of school administration. Mrs. Federal Minister! If education policy is really important for our children, then limit the share of students with non-German native language to a maximum of 30 percent! That is what Mrs Haubner has already mentioned, and we really agree. Only in this way can students with inadequate German skills be promoted without the Austrian children being disadvantaged. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, the chapter provides for support for teachers with Matura, almost €19 million in the two years. These funds are not made available through the teacher's teaching obligations but through the private administration of the countries. This form of settlement is also critically assessed by the Chamber of Labour. I would like to return to the New Secondary School for a short time: The New Secondary School, which you all praise – red and black – is a school model from the 19th century. ==References====External links== Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61033	Next speaker: Mrs Fuhrmann with a desired speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61054	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! They are not only responsible for education, but also for art and culture, and it is therefore very obvious that cultural communication is a priority for you. I personally think it is also an important and essential step to draw young people's attention to art and culture in schools. If Austria claims to be a cultural nation, I think it is obvious that steps will also be taken in the field of education. The budget for the arts and culture sector we are discussing today is a positive one. It is your congratulation, Mrs Minister, that you have succeeded in negotiating more funds, providing more resources, because I believe that this is essential and relevant in a wide range of areas. For example, the increase in the base fee for the Federal Museums and the Federal Theatre was a long overdue and very important measure that can ensure the continuation of our museums and theatres. In the sense of cultural communication – you have announced this – it is important to give students and students access to museums free of charge, motivating them to visit museums. I think that it will be a central question to discuss the increase in the base price for the federal museums of € 8.5 million here as well. I mean, if it's Their intention, as you have formulated in the Committee, is to include this free entry into the basic fee, which will amount to a sum of about €3 million, is also to seek dialogue with the individual museum directors, whether they can imagine doing so, because I think that 3 million of 8 million of such a measure will be available, something that should not be decided by the political hand alone, but that one must also come directly into contact with the art and cultural creators. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It will also be the question that we need to discuss in the Committee in future, how other priorities, which are also enshrined in the government programme, will be implemented. In the context of the global budget there is still a lot to go on possible. I also think that art promotion – and that is also generally said – is more than the distribution of public funds, because this is already about investing in the future of a country. I think it is also important, especially in economically difficult times, not to be shy of building investment, quite the contrary. I think that promoting the quality of construction culture is a very important measure for Austria. That's what I'm thinking about construction projects like the Kunstkammer, the Zwanzgerhaus or the deep store of the Austrian National Library. These are things where we still need to talk about financing and where I am also interested in your proposals. The report on gallery promotion has only recently been published. We will only discuss it in the Committee. However, I would like to say at this point that I consider this report to be very useful and that the measures proposed are also very constructive. These are to be discussed. In any case, you would like to highlight your intention to increase gallery funding first and, secondly, to better support international trade fairs, because I believe that this is an important support for young gallerists, young artists and artists in particular. I would like to speak in one area, because the media have also been very intensively reported on in recent days and because the film industry is also an area that is not only relevant for art and cultural policy, but also the film industry is interested in those who are interested in the economy of a country where employment is concerned, as well as boosting the economy through tourism. That is why it will also be important in the future to discuss the film industry not only in the field of art and culture, but also to make it an Austrian concern. Michael Haneke and Christoph Waltz won the Golden Palm to be awarded the award is a great success. This is something that, of course, it is not – it has already been said several times – Austrian politics can boast, but rather it should be a sign that we must create the framework conditions in order to ensure Austrian film in the future. In this respect, the increase in public funds should be mentioned positively. However, it should also be ensured that Austrian broadcasting is preserved as a client for the Austrian film industry. The ORF itself has announced or even threatened to break this agreement. I very much welcome the fact, Mrs Bundesminister, that you yourself said in talks with Secretary of State Ostermayer to stand up for this. Your intention to anchor the TV movie agreement legally finds our support because we believe it is a right and important measure. In addition, I would like to mention one more because I was also able to discuss it with the German Federal Minister at the Berlinale. In Austria, we also need to consider whether we should not tackle additional financing possibilities for the Austrian film, which means creating incentive models, in order to also motivate foreign production companies to spin in Austria. There is a model in Germany that we should look at more closely, a fund model, a discount model. We will have the opportunity – the ÖVP will be represented with the clubman – on 2nd. In June, at an event organized by the film producers themselves, where it is about to participate in the film industry. It is also important to see film productions as a location factor for Austria. And that is to be supported from my point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61129	Mr Markowitz is now speaking for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61151	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Good education is the foundation on which we can build. This starts with language early promotion. The compulsory kindergarten year is pleased to have already been carried out. In view of the increasing violence in schools, psychological care is important, yes indispensable. School psychologists also have the important task of early detection of diseases such as bulimia, evidence of, and investigation of, long-term damage. Unfortunately, the expansion of school psychology, which you, Mrs. Minister, announced – I think it was about 30 school psychologists speaking – has not been implemented. An example that we have heard during the children’s legal discussions – because I’m seeing so many young people up there – is the off of “rat on wire”. [[The speaker points to the gallery]] “Rat on Wire” is an institution that entered 21 years ago Life has been called, where 116,000 children and young people alone have found free advice and help in 2008 alone, 4,000 on-line consultations have been carried out, and this institution is scheduled to be turned off after 21 years. Here, I think, a solution should be found across-party – it is exactly €300 000 – so that an institution that concerns children and young people whose parents cannot finance psychological assistance can be continued free of charge. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A question that unfortunately remained unanswered is the question of teaching with Matura. Mrs Bundesminister, this year you expect 4,000 apprentices to take advantage of this. In this respect, how high is the drop-out quota per deadline 15. May. This has not been answered until now. The necessary major reforms of the Austrian school system cannot, at any rate, be compared with the present budget. The promised projects can only be started, but a continuation guarantee cannot be given seriously due to the lack of financial resources. The BZÖ has launched a comprehensive school reform project, which provides for a clear focus in the coming budgets and an investment of at least €2 billion for the next five years to be able to implement a good school reform for the Austrian youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61206	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer with desired 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61227	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Appreciated guests at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen! I find the focus on education, science and research in the budget extremely important and necessary. Investment in education and research is investment in the future of our country. It is necessary that we all be human free access to education, since education is the most important key to the fair distribution of opportunities in society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A prerequisite for a forward-looking education policy is an innovative education system, which is also based on the principles of lifelong learning. In addition to increasing the individual life opportunities of each individual, they can also secure the economic location of Austria for the future. We can only secure more and better jobs in the future if it is possible for all citizens to acquire key competences and to continue training throughout life. We will need even more offers for the acquisition of basic education in the field of adult education, especially for people with a migrant background, because everyone must have the right to a second chance. The free repetition of educational qualifications and the acquisition of basic qualifications should be achieved by all ages independent. The development of co-financing models between the federal government and the country, which allow for a repetition of compulsory school qualifications and free professional maturity examination, are further important educational policies which the government has set itself as its goal. In the rural regions in particular, I consider it particularly necessary to further develop information and education advice for adults, as well as basic education centres. Fortunately, there is also another regionalization here, which is particularly important. The great appeal of apprentices to the professional matura is particularly pleasing. Since last autumn, the apprentices have been able to acquire the qualification free of charge in parallel to the teaching. This model will be further expanded to allow even more apprentices access to this training model. For this purpose, €19 million, available for the next two years, is planned. In fact, it was already in the pilot year for the 3,000 participants, and in the next two years another 4,000 are expected to benefit from the preparatory courses in all the Länder.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61279	Mr Zinggl has now come to speak with 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61300	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am always glad when the President is sitting in the back or Dr. Spindelegger as the second National Council President, because if Dr. Graf were to sit there... – Sorry, Neugebauer, that's what I'm told, excuse me, Dr. Neugebauer – because it's a shame for this House when Dr. Graf is sitting back there and directing the debate. [[Call the SPÖ:Newborn!]] [[Abg. Straw: Spindelegger has been here for a while!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Without a doctor!]] This is extremely unpleasant, just because it is not able to represent this Parliament properly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would very much like us to call on Dr. Graf to leave this post together. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now on the cultural measures that are repeatedly referred to as economic factors. I remember that in the budget debate you, Mr Klubobmann Kopf, have repeatedly pointed out that the film economy is an engine, that culture is an engine and that the film is a growth industry. We also know that the government agreement says that the film should get €20 million. That is not at all the point. This year there is no increase at all, next year there will only be an increase of one million. On a request in this regard, the Ministry states that the target of €20 million is at least to be achieved during this period. You nod, Mr. Kopf, but I ask myself: What is this strange investment at the time of recession when you shift this investment to the time after recession? Now you have to invest, now you have to invest in the film, especially in the movie, and there is too little happening. The remaining money, which is now still on the account of the ÖFI, that is, the Austrian Film Institute, is €58 000. That means you can't turn anything at all. In addition, with increasing status, more and more stars have become stars in the film industry, and so to speak, they have almost a right to support. That means they don't need to be afraid they won't be promoted. But what about the descendants? If the establishrs are promoted, then the descendants obviously get nothing. Therefore, support would now be appropriate. That is why I believe that all of us, together, could support a motion for a resolution which I would like to read and bring in here. The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture is invited to increase the funding for the Austrian cinema film – starting from the 2009 budget year – by EUR 1 million annually until the amount of funding held in the Government Convention is EUR 20 million per year.” Ladies and gentlemen, I may mention something you may not know. In the last semester, i.e. in the winter semester from 2008 to 2009, 80 percent of film-makers were unemployed. In the social report you have published, Mrs Minister, the situation of film-makers is referred to as a catastrophe. I believe that in the sector where we are so big, there would be a very urgent need to do more in the sector than before. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is also a form of cultural policy for me, as it obviously does not operate and is not understood. The film is simply the medium of young people today, and therefore cultural policy also has the task of recognizing and moving, i.e. perhaps, the traditional forms of art and culture, if the budget remains the same, to reduce a little and to strengthen the media, which are going on and are popular. But there is obviously no reasonable understanding in this direction, and there is also no shift in our long-needed consideration that only the establishments in art are being promoted, while all the peripheral areas, these many initiatives, these small, fast, mobile boats have to look where they stay. This budget, as you will decide, in fact only secures the large state enterprises, i.e. the theatre, the museums, the Philharmonics, of course – they are not a state company, but almost – the Salzburg Festival. So they're secured. The Salzburg Festival again receives €2.8 million. This is established high culture, and the sheer is just beginning to disperse. The Madam President of the Salzburg Festival only needs weeks to be on the radio every summer, both on television and on radio – she is a Stiftungsratin, as it is easily possible – to regret that it rains in that the roof is broken. She can do that, she does it again this summer, she does it every summer. [[Abg. Oillings: It rains in us too!]] That's right! With us the roof is also broken, but that is already secured with a ton. I just hope she's not so full one day that she breaks through. But if Mrs. Rabl-Stadler regrets all over the public, she'll get €2.8 million. There's obviously money there. There are many institutions, Mrs Minister, I would like to give you a list, where it is raining down and which are also affected by inflation, which also have increases in staff costs, and which, I believe, should also be taken into account, even more so than before. Then I would like to point out something that is very important to me because you are opening the exhibition “Herbert Batlener” in Albertina tonight, Mrs. Minister. [[Abg. He's called Batliner!]] No, it's called Batlener, you don't know. [[Abg. Hörl: I know Batliner personally!]] Yes, I know him too, I don't know him personally, thank God, but if you personally know him, he says it for you, because this gentleman is the administrator of foundations over which great wealth has been deprived of the Fiscus, and he has helped in the nineties to cover up the illegal donations of the CDU. As helpers of tax evasions, of people like Mr. Flick, Shockemöhle and so on, he is known to the German public prosecutor. This has been determined since then, and Mr Batlener must not really enter German soil because otherwise he is in danger of being arrested and indicated: for tax evasion of € 250 million. With us, this gentleman has received the honour mark of the country of Salzburg, the Golden Honorary Sign of the Republic of Austria, the Golden Honorary Sign of Vienna. We also know that he's stuck in connection with the foot and mouth painters. There is an association – you know for sure, because it always distributes and sends postcards for Christmas in 60 countries and is asked for donations – which is not even a relief agency, it is not even recognized as a relief agency, but it is a commercial company whose managing director is the son-in-law of Mr. Batlener, whose legal consultant is Mr. Batlener himself. For this he receives 270 000 Swiss francs in the year. The daughter rents the premises in the year around 240 000 Swiss francs. So these are honorable people who are allowed to celebrate the 50-year celebrations for this relief work in Albertina. If I may remind you, Mrs. Minister: There is a Liechtenstein court decision of 2002, which confirms that Mr Batlener has also done legal aid for a Colombian drug dealer and murderer and has also said wrong for him. That is why I am telling you now because in 2007, when you opened an exhibition in Albertina for him, for Batlener, I have already asked for a parliamentary question. You've judged whether you know all of this. At the time, you wrote back to me that you all know these rumors, but that Mr. Batlener is not condemned and – that is the pleasure of it – that these accusations are not confirmed by Mr. Batlener's statements. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] So I think we don't improve our bad reputation as a tax haven if we continue to honor and treat as notoriously honorable people as you treat him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61443	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61489	Now comes Mrs Mag. Cortolezis-Schlager with 5 minutes of desired speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61511	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The structural package has provided €42.5 million for the continuation of very, very important reforms. This budget is a reform budget, but this budget is also a continuation of the reforms that have been successfully launched in recent years. I am glad that today I have heard your 10-point program, which I can sign with full conviction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the development of vocational training: I am pleased that you have today explicitly referred to vocational training as your political priority. This has not always been the case, but it is a matter of working together in a coalition and further developing the strengths of our education system, which are internationally recognized, and of promoting our students. I fully agree with you that the expansion of day care is a very, very important goal, not only from the point of view of the compatibility of work and family yesterday, but also from the point of view of a modern school, a school that does not need any additional hours. But for this we also need new school buildings, because our school buildings are not aimed at the children being there all day. It is therefore about the need for new forms of cooperation between sports associations, music schools and schools, so-called campus schools. This is a political objective that we should all put on the agenda: How can we make sure that youth clubs, kindergartens, sports clubs cooperate better with schools than they do at present in part, although there are excellent examples everywhere about how they can go. Day care, Mrs. Federal Minister, also means setting quality standards for me. How should such a quality standard discussion run? – You have had a seal of quality developed; I think this is a first important step, but it is always about evaluation. If these days in Vienna parents approach me and I am horrified to show a letter that says they have to sign if they want this school location, because he has a day care that, if they no longer need day care, the child needs to change the school location and that must be granted contractually at the beginning, then this does not correspond to the government agreement, then this does not correspond to our aspect of freedom of choice. And I would ask you that we should deal with such abuses together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] An important concern in the Government Convention is also the expansion of the bilingual education offer. It starts with early promotion. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, it is not about the colour of children's eyebrows. It's about what language skills they have. Therefore, the term "foreign child", "migrant child" with migration background, or not, is not the determining factor, but the question of language competence. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] To have a mother tongue-like competence must be our common objective of early promotion, of language promotion, that must be our common educational policy objective. Mrs Bundesminister, schools in free movement, I think that would also significantly raise the diversity of our school offer. It's a lot to do. If we come there to look less at the differences and more at the commons, then I think we have a challenging educational package ahead of us, and I am pleased to be able to participate in its implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61596	Now comes Mrs Mag. Inconsistency. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61619	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the galleries! As the first thing, it is my need to say that the statements made here by the Greens regarding our third Presidents are culturally empty and not in accordance with the dignity of the House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In my view, Dr. Walser’s “leg culture” is very infantile and does not fit here at all. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Amon and Mr Hagen, for their support.]] Now on cultural policy. According to media reports, Austria can rejoice: Michael Haneke managed to get a Golden Palm in Cannes. With his history drama “The White Band” he is rewarded for his favorite theme – and we all know that is the representation of violence and of very extreme world pictures. This time, the excretion of violence takes place in a Brandenburg village – usually Haneke locates the evil of the world between Lake Constance and Lake Neusiedler. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this continues to win prizes, according to the oscar-promised film “Die Fälscher”, with the processing of National Socialism. Also the original brilliant actor Christoph Waltz won the actor prize only after decades in which he was allowed to play side-by-side roles with the main role of an SS villain in Cannes and is now allowed to make Hollywood careers. Ladies and gentlemen, no doubt, with these topics you win international prizes – that's also good – but – and now the big but – you won't win the favor of the audience; for that I have the numbers and the evidence. The latest 2007 film economic report proves this. With a market share of 1.9 percent, only Luxembourg, Poland and Bulgaria remain behind Austria in the European comparison. Mrs. Minister – we have already talked about this matter a few times – in this respect all the alarm bells would have to ring for a long time because the numbers of visitors are really embarrassing. In the 37 films listed in 2007, only 295,000 visitors found it worth watching these films in the cinema. Imagine that! You should have done something a long time ago. 295,000 viewers in one year! When I compare with our neighboring country Germany – there you have changed the funding – I have to say that it looks much, much better, which can really refer to great successes. [[Abg. Rädler: That's bigger!]] [[Abg. Rädler: This is a bigger country!]] - That doesn't matter. [[Abg. Wheeler: Header number!]] It's bigger, but I can still compare it. I need to multiply this by only ten, then the numbers would vote again. The oscar-premierated film “The Life of the Others”, however, has, because it appeals to the audience – and that is what matters – within a few months, 2 million viewers can reach and has recorded € 70 million in one year. We can talk about film being a work of art – what we all want – and at the same time an economic factor. But you really have to try to do that too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Billy Wilder once said there are three important criteria when a film is successful: Point one: a good story. Point two: a good story. Point three: a good story. That's what it's all about! Especially when selecting the topics, we Austrians would have plenty of opportunities to tell interesting stories. Only the life and activity of our great artists would be interesting enough. This does not have to be kitschy and not rosary, for they too have experienced tragedies, dramas, death, disease, everything and have nevertheless created works that have enjoyed for decades, if not for centuries, the people and still be happy today. We could also find ourselves in an identity where in the past we do not limit ourselves exclusively to a small period of dictatorship. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As far as our story is concerned, we could tell glory. The €20 million promised in the government programme, which has already been mentioned a few times today, are not paid. That's really bad, because good movies need a lot of money. And this increase from € 7 million to € 13 million in the media sector does not apply, it is an eye-catching because it has nothing to do with the cinema film. Ladies and gentlemen, we have therefore put forward the following motion: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now very briefly to the museum landscape. There is clearly too little money in this area, no more than for the Bundestheater. The increase in the basic subsidy in the budget will be eaten up by increased staff costs alone – I see this quite differently from my colleague from the ÖVP. The future is not guaranteed at all. The free admissions promised by you, Mrs Minister, which we welcome, amounting to 2.5 million to 3 million, are still to be deducted, and then there is just too little money for the museums to lead Austria into a prosperous future in this regard. My colleague Dr. Rosenkranz has already made a request for the education of musicians. That's one of our big concerns. We must live up to the tradition of music by introducing a reform here too. Mrs. Minister, you should now take into account all your decisions on how Austria should look in 20 years' time. You should've made a difference here. Austria must remain a culture country of first rank. The budget is only a flick work without these targets, and we will therefore have to reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61755	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61876	Mrs Ablinger has now come to speak. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61897	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Madam President, you said that the T-shirt, which Mr Walser is wearing, would not be in line with the dignity of the House. – I say something quite different to you: If the Third President of the National Council condemns the President of the Israeli Cultus Church, makes it contemptible and may be found by the courts, then at least this is more than a question of the dignity of the House, then this is something that we have clearly said yesterday that the Third President should at least give up his office! . I hope that the ÖVP will make an appropriate statement. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] This is about the dignity of the House. What Mr Walser is wearing is really irrelevant in this regard. It's not supposed to let things slip in this republic. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Back to the subject. Mr Amon, you spoke of the forecasting procedure, of this new proposal for a three-part procedure relating to AHS recordings. [[Abg. Amon: Two parts are legal questions!]] Yeah, I just summarized it now. Mr Amon, as always, as you dress in words, I think that is definitely a step back to the educational past. All these studies, or the results of those countries that have top results, show that early selection is always bad. The countries with the best results are clearly countries that have spoken against early selection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] All international results say that early selection, in any case, aggravates inequalities and prevents development opportunities. You can dress up and say: We'll talk to the parents. From experience one knows that even such conversations do not prevent children from being selected at the age of nine. I can remember how much the pressure was when my son was nine years old – now he is 16 years old – that he was able to go to the AHS that he wanted to go to, because it was not just about the testimony of the fourth class, but even about that of the third class. And it was said that he can only go to this school if he has one everywhere, even in works. – Quite honestly, what would be a two in works or wherever? In any case: The pressure is enormous. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Now, of course, our child has more opportunities, and we can offer him a lot more. But if we were to go exactly in the direction you mentioned, that would at least be a step back. And I'm telling you quite honestly: We can't do that! All right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our knowledge is that no child is born stupid – I think we agree in that too. But the question is: How to secure opportunities for development, development opportunities for children? I'm telling you, in a nine-year-old child, you can't figure out what it's going to be capable of, how it's going to develop. However, what you propose would emphasize that. [[Abg. Amon: That's why I'm not allowed to overwhelm it!]] - No, I don't. They mean, overload – no, I don't mean that, but I say that when you're nine years old, you can't tell what chances it's going to have. That is why we will never vote in favour of this proposal. Nor can we agree to the proposal with the 30-percent rule as far as the classes are concerned, which Mrs Haubner has made and which also comes from the FPÖ. I imagine that this alone would be technically difficult. What would you do if in a region, for example in a district, 40 percent or 50 percent children came to class? – These kids would you drive through the area? Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager said it quite correctly: It does not matter which mother tongue the children have, but it depends on how much they are promoted in their linguistic skills – in their own language, that is very important, because only when their own language is right can you learn a second language. Therefore, if you want to promote these children – if you do not want to – you should say that if you want to have the children out there, you should put it that way – to force the expansion of the childcare facilities, quality free childcare facilities, so that the children will soon have a chance to promote their mother tongue and second language language. That is the crucial point for me. As political education was previously addressed: I think that the expansion of political education in schools is very important, especially in the context of the alternative age reduction. As in the context of the increase in right-wing excesses over the last few weeks, it has been said again and again that education in schools needs to be enhanced: I think it is right that schools should not stand out, but it is not the task of schools alone, it is the task of civil society. If it is tried, so to speak, to shift the political discourse in our society to the right and to make certain things appear normal, for example, to give a touch on the right-wing edge as normality, then all civil society is required – this is not the task of the school alone; just as I believe a modern, open educational policy is at least a guarantee that a drift of young people into the right-wing extreme camp can be prevented. In this sense, we can also agree with this budget, which contains appropriate approaches. We'll do the same. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e61982	Mr Dr. Strutz has now come to speak. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62003	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! You received a prize yesterday – as I think you are right. I congratulate you. I think it was more of a consolation price that you could receive in connection with your commitment to education. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, have taken a very hard look at the reforms that have been requested by all, but have ultimately failed in your coalition partner, this federal government, this school system. Financial resources in the education sector are not sufficient in the case of items. Mrs Bundesminister, you have been mistreated by the Minister of Finance, sabotaged by the coalition partner and ultimately left in the rain by the Chancellor. It should be noted, however, that although the funds are limited, they would be used efficiently and properly in the field of education. I would like to refer to the comments made by Mr Amon, the Education Officer of the ÖVP, who spoke here of double-tracks in the field of school administration and the removal of administrative authorities in the state governments, in nine federal states – and at the same time the school administration. [[Abg. Amon: No, no! Where she is! They're not everywhere!]] That wouldn't do anything. I'm telling you, Carinthia is a small federal country. The State School Council alone costs €8 million with its District School Councils alone! For nine federal states, where we have these double-tracks, we come to €100 million, which we would save ourselves by this measure. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And here I am looking for the ÖVP – Mrs Bundesminister said she was against these double-tracks – yet a little more movement. The educational concept of the ÖVP is a concept back into the Middle Ages. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Amon: Mr Strutz! I spoke to colleagues in the District School Councils!]] Automatic@item:inmenu Text Completion Its demand to limit access to the educational institutions of ten years of age by means of an admission examination is an educational approach, which reads as follows: Back to the Middle Ages! [[BZÖ and Abg. Brosz.]] We also tested the New Secondary School in Carinthia. We were one of those federal states that showed the courage that Colleague Rudas, too, has called for here and which I am actually expecting from the SPÖ. If you say that you are calling for more courage in the field of education here in the House, please, first of all, towards coalition partners, who block all the concepts in the field of education, and then to their own government, please, to the Federal Minister, to the Federal Chancellor, so that these reforms, which have indeed started, which are majority in Austria, can actually be implemented. If we had these financial resources at our disposal, then Mrs Bundesminister, the educational institutions would not look disolate, but would look different. I brought you a call from your partner Rudolf Altersberger, Vice-President of the Council of State Schools for Carinthia. [[The speaker referred to a drawing article.]] He says that 80 percent of schools in Carinthia should be closed – 80 percent! – and refers to an inspection report by the Labour Inspectorate. I am saving you the list of all the shortcomings that have been shown there. That's just so you know what the school institutions you're responsible for are really like. And why will this problem go on? – You have brought along that lazy compromise, which now guarantees the financial scope for the employment of teachers by the fact that the BIG no longer receives money for new buildings and investments. Now we're gonna get caught up in interest. Under the rule, this lazy compromise, which this coalition has negotiated, will cost more money, but with the result that 80 percent of schools – which is a Vice-President of the Council of State Schools of the SPÖ – are in such a desperate state. A few words on culture, because I also believe that in the field of culture, as in the field of education, there is no real desire to design, not really politics. The cultural policy you are setting out with this budget has turned back, so look into the past. You'll continue the budget linear. You finance the museums, you finance the Bundestheater. Where is the place for those contemporary artists, for those avant-garde we are proud of now, where you all go and have the award-winning creatives of Austria shown and honoured? Where does the support of contemporary art remain in this cultural budget? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But we have to take note – this was the answer to a request from the Budget Committee – that with a Mr Dr. Wilfried Seipel, museum director, who really does not represent a fame sheet that has caused and indebted millions of people, continues to have good relations. He gets 30 000 € alone for a study that bears the title: “Compare national and international cultural communication work with renowned cultural institutions”. I ask you, Mrs Bundesminister: Why is this study prepared? Why is de facto an employment relationship with Dr. Seipel continued? It is set for the next five years. Let us know why this is so. Finally, a request to Mrs Kulturminister Schmied: Please take care of the social security of those artists who in the post-war period were unable to insure themselves independently, for whom the legal framework has been extremely difficult! This social security scheme, particularly by artists who have done a lot for Austria in the past and have contributed to the reputation of Austria as a cultural nation, would actually be a duty of this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62090	Mr Riepl is now speaking for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62112	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Strutz, 80 per cent of the schools in Carinthia – well, what does the former or current head of state say about this? – These are only federal schools? [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: These are federal schools!]] And what about the other schools? [[Abg. Grosz: Excellent!]] So I think you should look at this in peace and not always represent it as if it were the other one's fault. I am telling you how this is resolved in Vienna. If we have problems with federal schools in Vienna, we try to look from Vienna's politics together with the Federal Ministry of Education to bring about renovations or new schools. This has clearly been missed, for otherwise it would look different. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] If the former and the current head of state sleep, but you make yourself there and say everything is bad, then I have to say that is a funny kind of policy you are doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, 40 percent of those young people who have graduated from school go to vocational schools. I would also like to point out briefly and thank the Federal Minister for the fact that we have now also undertaken a reform of education in vocational schools. Teaching with Matura is the first step. We also need to be there, Mrs. Federal Minister, you know that, smaller classes. We need more foreign languages, also in vocational schools. The fact that one third of the vocational students do not have a primary education shows how difficult the environment for teachers in vocational schools is there or there. – So work enough and commission enough to continue educational reforms with full force. I think that a good day also begins with more political education, especially in vocational schools, because it is also important for apprentices to be better able to recognize political and social contexts and, above all, to judge them. The issue of political education in schools is, as I believe, an important one, especially in times when statements and actions that can only be rejected and rejected as democrats, not only in cellars of clubs, in beer tents, on the street or in low houses, but also in high houses, as we unfortunately have seen in recent days. I think that political education should be strengthened accordingly by means of an initiative. I remember that at the time we invited many school classes to watch and discuss certain films. The theme was the film "Schindler's List" at the time. I think there are many valuable films, excellent films that we should now bring to our students as a basis for discussion. I would like to encourage such an action. Mrs Bundesminister, I believe that education policy is in excellent hands with you, and I am sure that the reform will go on step by step. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62177	Mr Brosz has now come to speak with a desired 6 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62199	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! That was now, I think, for the third or fourth time, that I have heard in similar words your confessions to the education system. There's not much to add. More justice, social compensation in Austrian schools, smaller classes – all of this I have heard since 2006. The question is: What happens in reality? And a second point, which you are constantly calling for, this fact-oriented one – that is, I believe – education policy, can now be taken as seriously as I mean after the events surrounding the budget debate and the question of what to do with the school autonomous days. It is the question of whether the fact is what happened there in the context of the discussion on the school autonomous days: If one first finds that the teachers should be in schools, while the students are not in schools, and continue to fertilize each other in mutual teaching, then this may not have been very serious. The budget debate we have here has its own character. If you were to try to present your private budget the way you represent the federal budget, by saying that we are renovating the budget, whereby we do not know who to stand up for the 240 million € for the BIG rents in two years, then this would probably be negligent Krida. This is only in the public sector, in any other area it would certainly not be possible to carry out a budget policy that is entirely on sand, and actually do not know where to take the money if it becomes due. So with the expression “fact-based” I would be relatively careful in your place, Mrs. Federal Minister, in future. You've given this chance quite a bit lately. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now you can say, okay, budget deficit, economic crisis, no one knows how high the debt will be, will not be so tragic, the 240 million is no longer the case. – However, this is an access that is relatively difficult and is not serious in budgetary terms. What is even more elaborate is the retranslation of the so-called 100 million, as far as I've followed that in the media, where you say, it's now being re-transmitted, and re-transformation simply means that no investment is being made. The 100 million of the BIG are missing for new buildings, especially for the handicapped facilities of the schools, where 40 million € were budgeted, which are now being recast and are not there, which I consider to be completely fatal. So those most urgently needed are those who have to pay the token for it. It is a great pleasure that higher schools still cannot be visited because they are not barrier-free because they are not adapted, and therefore disabled students have no way to perceive their educational opportunities. Now to say that part of the funding is that these projects will be postponed, it may not be. This is really a failure that we have to keep you massively. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, you referred back to the smaller classes in your speech, but once again you did not say that this does not relate to the higher schools. In all the AHS upper levels, in the commercial academies, in the HTLs we still have classes that are as large as they always were, and they will not become smaller during this legislative period either. So if you keep it here with fact-oriented policy, then you could say, okay, in compulsory schooling, we will now succeed in this BIG story to continue the 2006 programme, in the field of higher schools nothing will happen. In addition, it should also be noted that: ÖVP and SPÖ – you, Mrs. Dr. Schmied, were still not a minister at the time and therefore non-responsible negotiator at the 2006 government negotiations – have made it clear that there would be a reduction in the number of students in compulsory school. Just to hold it: That was exactly what the budget debate was all about. This commitment to lower the number of students was apparently gone at once. Mr Pröll, Minister of Finance, has no longer made the budget available for this purpose. And if this BIG story hadn't come, it would have been simple. The result was that from next year we had 30 students sitting in the first classes of the folk school. So no one can talk about great progress. This is a marginal improvement, with marginal meaning, for the students who are concerned, it is very important, but the implementation is not carried out in the entire school system at Weitem. If you look at the other areas of which you tell us that much will happen, then the question arises: Where is it? When teaching funding? I mean, the follow-up tree is blasphemous in Austria, and there is hardly much money going into private aid in another country. Why? - Because it's not done in schools. Now you can think about different models. After all, I am someone who rather says that additional, specially trained support teachers who can specifically support students would probably be more useful. If the class teacher is automatically the one who holds the funding instruction where there is a big problem, then it is already a little difficult structurally; there may be other problems. But be it, one could say, either there is a general obligation for teachers to give more funding, or there is a special training. If you look at Scandinavia, then you'll see that in Finland every tenth teacher and every tenth teacher in compulsory school is specifically trained, promotion teacher is in, partly in small groups gives individual subdivided. This is probably the core of the success recipe, where the proportion of students coming out of the school system is significantly lower. But where does something change? They said – and that was already a warning signal to me – that which must definitely come is the higher teaching obligation. Now I say that you can discuss this, perhaps also in the context of a new salary curve. However, a higher teaching obligation of teachers certainly does not apply to the students. The question arises why a teacher should do a better teaching if he does not have 20 – I don't know what you think about in the development – 22 or 24 hours. This will not improve quality in the classes. A quality improvement may occur if teachers also have time to work with the students individually, outside of school, if these support measures are available. If I hear from you now that your big goal is to increase the teaching obligation, I wonder what education policy is behind it. This is a saving concept that you may also be able to fulfil, I do not wish to deny that there are opportunities, but that is primarily a savings concept, but not a educational policy measure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are massively in favour of this being finally addressed in Austria. I now know this from private experience. If you have children who just switch from elementary school to high school, you also know the environment, and you know that this saying: We have schoolwork!, for a very high proportion of parents and children. This is not an exceptional situation, it is something that everyone has to do with. It is very interesting for me to look back at sometimes how is now being taught; I do not want to dispute that at all. The point is only, the children whose parents do not do this to them have an blatant disadvantage in that country. To move that learning de facto is very strongly transferred to the private sector, to the parents and those who have the advantage can benefit from it, but those who do not have it simply suffer under it and slip out of the school system, that can't be a model of the future, and you haven't planned anything in this budget to improve it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62313	Next speaker: Mrs Franz with 4 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62334	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! It was an unpleasant discussion that was held during the preparation of this teaching budget. What was particularly painful was the public judgment that teachers were lazy, holiday-skaisers, reform-preventors – evil convictions that have angered and disappointed the many diligent, initiatives and innovative teachers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The debate has gone on, and we cannot reverse it. Thank God has come to mind, and a solution has been found. There is now a budget on the table to cover the financial needs through re-transmissions. With the increases in the education budget for 2009 and 2010 and the package of measures negotiated with the teacher union, the right steps can now be taken for a school of the future. The following objectives seem to me to be particularly important: Students need to be placed at the centre, which means smaller classes and more small groups. Individualization is required; it is to be addressed to each individual child in class. We need a holistic education; not only the cognitive requirements must be met, no, social skills are also necessary, and it is so that we need to develop the personality of the students. We need more and better day care; Homework and learning should take place in school. What seems very important to me is that we have to upgrade the educational work. Teachers need to be strengthened because teachers are the key to educational success. Being a teacher also means more than being present in the class. Unfortunately, the image of the teaching profession is in the basement. There is a lack of appreciation in society for the achievements of teachers. Thus we need a modern service and remuneration right, which is modern and performance-oriented. The high level of commitment must be rewarded and appreciated. Policy also has to strengthen the back of teachers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need reasonable working conditions. There are additional funds in this budget for structural improvements. The school must be living space for students and teachers. Teachers should also be relieved of administrative tasks. They need training due to increased demands in school. In total, teacher education and training should be improved. What seems important to me is that the school autonomy is expanded. On the one hand, schools need reliable framework conditions, but on the other hand more autonomous scope for decision-making and action. It needs courage for self-responsibility. This must be strengthened. In this context, it is particularly important that the education standards are implemented. This is particularly important as quality assurance. That is why there is also money for this implementation. Mrs Bundesminister, you have presented ten points. I support them and look forward to implementing them together. The budget has a clear focus on education, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62392	Mr Kurzmann has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62413	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Every tenth euro spent by the Austrian state flows into education. The share of federal expenditure in this area will be more than 10 percent for the first time in 2010 as measured by total government expenditure. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This seems to be a lot, ladies and gentlemen, at first glance, but it must be considered and assessed in the annual comparison, as the share of education and education in total expenditure fell by €8.6 billion in 2008 at the rate of 8.5 percent and is expected to reach €7.3 billion at 10.3 percent only in 2010. However, the budget expansion, which has become possible through the German Government's compromise with the teachers' union, will not, as we have hoped, benefit important projects in our differentiated school system, but the prestige project of the New Middle School, which is not prioritized from our point of view. It must also be emphasized that this budget has only been achieved by means of a budget-technical art grip, because the school rents for the years 2009 and 2010, which are due and have a total volume of € 240 million, must be repaid with interest over the next three years from this budget. For that, despite the high use of funds in the international school system, the Austrian school system Comparison actually cut off so badly – this is what the PISA studies show – there is a very simple explanation. It is simply the consequences of mass immigration over the past 15 years, which are particularly pronounced in the urban area. The drop in performance in the classes is mainly due to young foreigners who often do not speak German and therefore cannot follow the lessons. Mrs Federal Minister Schmied, I share your statement from 31. March 2009, which you have repeated today, that we must ensure that all students can follow the teaching language, that they are powerful of the German. But, Mrs Bundesminister, that alone will not be enough! In schools with classes where more than 30 percent of students are taught who do not speak German as their mother tongue, pure alien classes must finally be established. This was decided by this National Council in 2006. You're still guilty of implementation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are particularly guilty of the Austrian parents who have wanted to ensure that their children's educational opportunities are maintained. It must not be so, ladies and gentlemen, as is now largely observed in the cities – especially in Vienna, but also in Graz – that the only language support for Austrian students is that they pick up some Turkish words! One last point, ladies and gentlemen: Austria is in favour of being a country of culture. We have a dense and very interesting museum landscape. This starts at the Heereshistorisches Museum, continues through the Volkskundemuseum, over the Museumsquartier, so there is really a wide range of museums that we can be quite proud of in the international comparison. It is therefore in our all interest to ensure access for all – and especially for families – and to make it free of charge. I therefore propose, on behalf of my group, that: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a final comment on Causa Prima. The right to freedom of expression, ladies and gentlemen, is of course and of course also stands with the Third President of the National Council Dr. Martin Graf here in the House as well as outside this House. And we cannot restrict this right to free expression by anyone, not by self-proclaimed antifascists, nor by anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62507	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62529	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The economic and financial crisis is reflected in the 2009/2010 budget, as has already been mentioned several times in the debate. It is all the more gratifying and important to stress that the increased budget for art and culture not only ensures cultural funding but also gives room for new impulses. As is impressively demonstrated by these figures, the Federal Government takes its cultural responsibility very seriously and thus clearly acknowledges the need to promote public art and culture. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that in many countries cultural promotion has been extended to the area of sponsorship. In these countries, art now has a real financial problem. With the budget, we can force the implementation of a number of projects under the government programme. Film promotion is, of course, the first priority. We all know the importance of promoting the Austrian film. The budget has been increased and another million euros is planned for 2010. This results in a sum of €16.57 million. The funds for the Innovative film has already been raised in 2008. This increase is continued. I am confident, however, that I also appeal to the Minister of Finance and also to the Minister of Economic Affairs responsible for the creative economy to support Minister Schmied that we can reach the €20 million target for the film during the legislative period as foreseen in the government programme. As a cultural speaker, of course, I would have liked to have more money immediately, but I am building on you, Mrs. Minister, that you continue to fight stubbornly for the increase! We will be happy to support you, not only because great films are made in Austria and they can show continuous success, but also because areas such as the creative economy have a high employment potential. At this point I would like to congratulate Michael Haneke and his team very warmly and thank them for our upcoming Cineastic pleasure! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Unterlander, I am quite different from yours! Billy Wilder says: A good story is important! - I'll give you the right. But it is a good story, and it is essential to deal with violence and the state of violence and nationalism. The statements and the attitude of your colleague, Mr Graf, are only too clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the high contribution of the creative economy I would like to make from a broadcast of “EurActiv” of 19. Cite May 2009. That's what it says: “The cultural industry has recently been responsible for 2.5 percent of the growth of European GDP, which even overtakes the numbers of car manufacturers or ICT companies, so” – the “general director of the Department of Education and Culture at the European Commission, the first EU-China Forum on the Cultural Economy”. But also economic aid from the economic package for structural measures of museums or theatre would be superior and I think it makes sense. I think of the Chamber of Art or of the deep memory of the National Library. In Germany, a fifth of the budget for restructuring measures of federal buildings for cultural institutions has just been reserved. But back to the promotion of contemporary art. A number of changes have been made, be it the state grants, the foreign scholarships, the studio apartments, the increase in cultural initiatives, but also the increase in international activities. Mrs. Dr. Schmied, we'll be They continue to support them in the fight for more money for culture, but also in the implementation of the very important projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62617	I note that Mr Kurzmann's motion for a resolution before us is sufficiently supported and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62674	I now give the floor to Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62696	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that we are able to discuss today in the field of art and culture in difficult times about budget increases and whether budget increases are sufficient. I fully agree with the attitude of the honourable Member, Mr Muttonen, that there can simply never be enough scope for funding. However, I think it should also be acknowledged that a budget increase has been achieved in times of difficulty. I can remember that we come from a Federal estimate of €399 million in 2006, and in 2009 it will be €447 million. Even if you take into account unique effects such as “Linz09”, it is a remarkable increase. It is clearly a confession of this federal government for art and culture. I've got myself over Your appreciative statement, Mrs Fuhrmann, is very pleased with the budgetary negotiations, but it has to be a little correct. The success has already been achieved a little earlier, namely in the government negotiations, where it has for the first time succeeded in establishing a budget path for the arts and culture sector. I would like to say that it has a great deal of power. Molterer – he's not in the room now – is very committed to increasing, and that's important. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The budget is a confession to art and culture, to the artists in Austria. It is – and a clear yes to that from my side! – a confession to the great traditional art and cultural institutions, and it is a commitment to regional cultural initiatives that we can also strengthen by increasing the budget. I am very pleased that we can continue the path that has been taken, namely to link regional initiatives more closely with the activities in schools. This is a big and important concern to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the field of art and cultural policy, mediation, participation is my priority, and above all – which has already been mentioned by many Members – contemporary art and culture. I am particularly concerned with promoting young people. But I am also very much concerned with the field of internationalization. We have to succeed – and in the field of film industry this is impressive – that Austrian artists are known and effective beyond Austria. I am very pleased that Minister Spindelegger has now established a cooperation base in the field of foreign culture, that we can also use our cultural forums abroad more strongly for the Austrian artists, for their appearance, to become acquainted with them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Museums have already been addressed. Mrs Fuhrmann, I have already discussed this with the directors and will discuss it in detail in June with the individual directors and together with the chairmans of the board of directors. It is my declared goal to anchor free entry in 2010 – starting with January. It is clear that, of course, we must pay attention to the income situation, the turnover situation of the individual houses. My aim is to get a flat-rate fee that we do not set up an overarching bureaucratic billing system. It should be possible to implement this in 2010 as part of the increased budget. Explained focus – we discussed this in detail in the Committee on Culture – is film promotion. I am delighted with you for the great successes of the filmmakers in Cannes and many other international festivals. I think the way to increase film promotion is the right one. We come from €9.8 million and then reach over €16 million. The government programme has fixed € 20 million. This is a clear goal for me – also enshrined in the government programme – but it is equally important to me that we together ensure that the film/TV agreement with the ORF, which is a decisive co-financing instrument for the public sector and thus for the film industry, is also established by law with the innovation of the ORF law. One thing, ladies and gentlemen, can't be that when it comes to the increase in fees, one argues very well with the cultural activities of the ORF – that is, film industry, radio symphony orchestra – then it is when it comes to the necessary structural measures, as admittedly necessary, but again the cultural measures that are first on a list when it comes to deletions and savings. The argument must remain consistent. I am very pleased that this also sees Mr Klubobmann's head in such a way that it is necessary to provide for appropriate legal measures to ensure security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this point I agree with you, Mrs Unterlander: We must continue to think in the field of film promotion. Not only the field of production is important, but it is about promoting along value-added fungs chain. So, of course, it is also a matter of putting mediation in the foreground. Therefore, I will continue the journey – mediation programs of the Austrian film, support for the programme cinemas, projects with schools, film weeks for students – also in 2009 and 2010. It's an initiative. It's not the big solution yet, but I think it's central and important. The evaluation report of foreign trade fair promotion, gallery funding and publishing promotion came with delay, but is now available. Before the summer, we will have the opportunity to discuss the results of the report in detail in the Committee on Culture. I will then be able to present a package of measures which I will set new priorities in these support programmes. Two points are still very important to me, to which I ask for your support. In particular, there are two legislative measures, which are very important in terms of cultural policy. One point is book price fixing. It is important to take into account the ECJ judgment accordingly and to note that we at least ensure the diversity of book trade and publishing in Austria. A preliminary work has already been carried out on this subject. We will allow ourselves to address the cultural speakers of all parties. The second important point relates to the keyword Anticorruption Act. It also seems to me that it is important to clarify. It can and must not be – free to Peter Turrini: “How suspicious is man?” – that we have unclear acts that follow an uncertainty. I am looking forward to the cooperation and to the possibility that before the summer there will be an opportunity to work in depth on the individual projects in the Cultural Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62838	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62859	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ten out of 100 students understand nothing of percentages, which is more than 17 percent. [[Calls:110]] – Either you didn’t listen to me or some of you don’t have it with the percentage bill. All right. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But this joke is not so real, ladies and gentlemen. I recently visited the democracy workshop, which in principle is a very good establishment. It was just a second class of a cooperative middle school to visit, and in the course of discussions with the children, I had a starting point. The students did not know, for example, how many federal states have Austria. One named six, the other named eight. – So this is already an example of the need for serious shortcomings in the education system. I also brought a district newspaper that flattered me in the house, reporting on a big student test. Students were asked for politicians, among other things. ==References====External links==* Official website Jörg Haider. – This is the case here in this district newspaper, the students have answered these questions. [[the speaker holds a copy of the above-mentioned newspaper]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Richard Lugner's daughter Jacqueline is also more known as Chancellor Faymann. – Also a result of this test. On page 4, the question is: Is the education on the track? – Yes, education remains on the track! In particular, with the budget provided, education and education reform remain safely on track. The school reform has failed, and the present educational budget will not be a real reform. €525 million has been announced by the Minister of the Interior as a need, and in fact €155 million remains. The support to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft cannot be referred to as savings. But especially in the light of the examples I mentioned earlier, it can be seen that the field of remedial education will be even more important in the future. In Austria, about 50,000 pupils receive one or more “not enough” in the annual certificate. The costs that need to be incurred for remedial education must be borne by the parents amount to € 140 million. Our BZÖ solidarity model – after help would relieve the parents and also strengthen the purchasing power of the families. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Thank you. Our BZÖ follow-up model – which would bring a lot –: Teachers undertake to teach children in need in the last three weeks before school. Currently, an average follow-up time in individual lessons costs 30 €, in group lessons 15 €. If you count it high, 15 days to eight hours of teaching, you will get a savings of €90 million in group lessons, and in individual lessons you will have a discharge of €180 million, ladies and gentlemen! We also have solutions for our students. In this context, I should like to conclude by saying: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62936	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e62993	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63015	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is a good feeling if all here in the house agree that the quality of training in Austria must be constantly improved. – On the how and where, however, the spirits like to separate! I think that the debate on education is essentially about two basic principles: on the one hand, the need to adapt to needs, and on the other hand, the quality that needs to be adapted to modern living conditions. Both are inseparably related to the Federal Government's plan to finally implement the reduction of classes in elementary schools, primary schools, polytechnic schools and AHS sub-levels. This would meet the needs of parents, children and teachers and increase the quality of education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, the € 270 million more available to the Federal Minister compared to previous budgets will have a positive impact. I very much hope that it Germany succeeds in achieving what Upper Austria already presupposes, that in all compulsory schools there are no more than 25 children in one school class. In addition, Upper Austria has implemented this in the AHS lower levels by up to 70 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a great success from the head of state Dr. Josef Pühringer for the quality of training in Upper Austria. If you are now wondering how this comes about, I can tell you that I believe it is quite simply the good interaction and functioning of all those responsible in politics, education, teachers, parents, students who talk to each other and do not try to act from above. Perhaps you could also look at it at the federal level and perhaps also in some federal state. As mayor and school owner of a small rural community, I also know the problem of the integration of students with non-German native languages. Better and more targeted language promotion is the conversion and promotion of good teaching. If individual children cannot follow the teaching because they do not control the teaching language or only fail, then the quality of the teaching suffers for all children, not only for the children with non-German mother tongue. But this has nothing to do with xenophobia or similar, but it is only about improving the quality of training. With targeted support courses, we strengthen the quality of teaching and the willingness to integrate these families. Money invested in the training of young people benefits all: society, social cohesion, the economy and the reputation of a country. It is therefore good and right that the education budget should be increased in the next two years, despite savings measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63075	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63096	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! I can absolutely agree with Mr Principality: a confession to our German language! Unfortunately, we find in the budget – and I think that has a little tradition – hardly an approach to our domestic culture and to our domestic customs. I know, of course, that the country is not the first task of the federal government and that the financial and economic crisis sets different priorities, but nevertheless I think it is a mistake to support the area of domestic customs and also the traditional associations of the federal government little to no avail. It is particularly important for us as a FPÖ to protect our domestic culture, our customs, but also our German language – and we have to say it almost so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I know that a political group here in the House usually criticizes the word 'home', but we as the FPÖ are getting involved in it, we want to promote it, and we therefore call for an approach to it in the budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Our language, especially all the dialects – here in the house almost all dialects are represented, because we come from each of our nine federal states – we must preserve and preserve. We miss a budgetary commitment from the Federal Government, i.e. also a financial commitment to the promotion of our domestic culture and our domestic customs. We as FPÖ demand that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why, as a FPÖ, we are also so massively opposed to Turkey's accession to the European Union, and as the only party here in Parliament. All the other parties here, due to the EU election campaign, are now taking a small zigzag course – that is only related to the European elections – but we see in Turkey's accession to the European Union not only a danger to the Austrian labour market, but also a threat to our European and Christian culture. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to say one more word on culture – not you, Mrs Schmied, that is not a budgetary problem – namely the culture of conversation here in this House. I am at a budget debate for the first time, and I have to say that it was really terrifying for me how this debate was debated internally. For three plenary days, it was only about whether Mr Christian Faul formulated exaggeration. . I say he just made a point, but he just did it once, just once. For three days now, however, he has been constantly drugged – knowing that in every party – the list is in Parliament – people who have one, two or more secondary incomes! The problem is that these secondary incomes are not mentioned in their worth. We demand that the value be given and not the number of individual functions. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Holy shit.]] Especially “excellent” in this debate was the educational speaker from BZÖ, Mr Martin Strutz. In his press releases – and in my opinion this is a rather uncultivated one – he calls for the immediate resignation of Mr Faul, for this one to cash and work nothing; he is still 75 percent busy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer]] – So please, Strutzs Party colleague, Member of Parliament Stefan Petzner, is 75 percent employed by the state government and Members of Parliament, so he works here only 25 percent! [[Abg. Grosz: But he works!]] Electoral Fight Manager at Landeskosten is here, Stefan Petzner. He says quite clearly that he also knows that. [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: He's working! The other is an unemployed income! That is the problem in the education system!]] You have to say that quite clearly. [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] Martin Strutz, as an educational speaker from the BZÖ, comes to the speaker's desk and criticizes the Federal Government for its economic shortcomings – I can certainly agree – but he also criticizes the greens who have no ideas, and the FPÖ, who is simply complaining, and wants to explain the truth to us here. Now I read something from the “Kronen Zeitung” about the educational speaker from the BZÖ, who wants to explain how to operate here: Since 3. On 4 April 2008, Martin Strutz was elected to the German Parliament. - Quote. And Strutz wants to explain to us how to manage? – I understand the criticism of the Federal Government, but, please, send out another one here that explains how to operate, please not the Martin Strutz! The execution proceedings against him are from credit banks, credit card companies, from car companies, from social insurance companies, from a Klagenfurt lawyer. And this Martin Strutz turns out here and wants to explain how to manage?! - That's really ridiculous. Nominates another and requires, please, from Martin Strutz that he sets the same standards with his party as with SPÖ delegates, with ÖVP delegates, with the Greens or with us! [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] I am glad that this debate, at least I hope, has ended here today, that we can return to the subject matter. [[Abg. Riepl: Now they are calm, the oranges!]] – Yeah, now they're a little quieter, it won't help. There are also a few there, but I can't do it for that. By the way, they also criticised the fact that Mr Faul is never here – now they are not there themselves. It's a bit of hypocrisy. I would ask again to align Martin Strutz, all of them in the same way as he did in his private environment, then it would be really bad for the economic location and also for the cultural location in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63232	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63253	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Strutz asked the question: Where is the support for contemporary culture? Mr Petzner on the cultural report and Mr Jannach, too, just earlier, complained about the stepmotherly treatment of folk culture. I think that is exactly what shows that the Minister of Culture is on the right track with her cultural policy, namely: to create an open climate for culture in this country, to ensure cultural diversity, to ensure that tradition has place on the one hand, but on the other hand, modern contemporary art creation also has space, that above all cultural participation is promoted and – and we want to ensure – that participation of all people in the cultural, knowledge and information society is made possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think that is responsible cultural policy, and so is cultural policy. If you look at the cultural budget, you can see that on the one hand there will be higher funds for the Bundestheater, for the National Library, on the other hand, but also for the promotion of young people and also for cultural initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I think cultural initiatives are worth being promoted. They all know certainly committed cultural initiatives, whether in the urban area or in the rural regions, and this is exactly where you have to invest money – and this is what our Minister of Culture does. I am also convinced that, as already mentioned, there are excellent cultural initiatives and also associations in rural regions. If one speaks of participation, of participation, then I believe that it must also be a matter of course that funds flow into all regions. I come from a town in a rural region, and I think it is good to promote local cultural initiatives, because this also promotes participation, participation of people in the countryside, if I may say so. Mrs Schmied has made a clear commitment to this. I would therefore like to thank you for ensuring that there will be a colourful, high-quality cultural and artistic offer away from urban centres. I really want to appeal that this funding rail will continue to be maintained and expanded in the future, because I am convinced that it is important to provide high-quality cultural services even in rural regions. Finally, I would like to say: Culture forms, education cultivates – and this should also be important in the implementation of cultural policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63301	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63323	Estimated Mr President and powerful shadow chancellor of the Republic of Austria Fritz Neugebauer! [[BZÖ and Abg. Amon.]] Estimated Ms. Federal Minister Schmied – where is the Federal Minister? May I perhaps ask Mr Faul to take his seat on the government bank, where he would now have the opportunity to pursue government policy, not one! It is known that you, Mr Faul, are one who is active in this reform and supports the Federal Minister. What comes out, we have seen, nothing at all! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A sentence on Mr Jannach from the Freeman. – You yourself have a Member in your ranks, who went into bankruptcy, in Upper Austria. [[Interruption calls at FPÖ, including Abg. Ing. Hofer: That's wrong.]] Unfortunately, he has an excellent name – everything he has is a good name. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: That's so bad!]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce a few things in the course of this budget debate, namely the headlines a few months ago. The Government calls for: Everyone's got to make sacrifices! - That was 7th. March. „Works for Austria“, “Sparkanzler”, “Sparappell”, “Sparvizekanzler”, Chancellor Werner Faymann and vice chancellor Josef Pröll promise Austria a hard time. Everyone has to make his contribution in the crisis, including public service. Today, after about 150 days, we have a strange situation. At that time it was to be read: Finally, movement comes into the school reform. Debates of the European Parliament There is a mix of measures in the focus. The current status today: There's nothing! Everyone has to make a contribution in the public service, only teachers not, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is the real scandal! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, Mrs. Schmied, have failed with your school reform! You used to understand this by worrying about the possibilities of implementation. This is your admission that your school reform failed. They were abandoned by SPÖ; by a SPÖ whose Clubobmann Cap has said here, he is fully behind your demands. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Do you always have the same speech?]] He is fully behind Claudia Schmied's demands. – In the meantime the SPÖ has adopted the demands. The only group that really supported you was our BZÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have repeatedly and repeatedly supported you, Mrs. Schmied. Our education spokesperson, Mr Uschi Haubner, said it today, and Mr Ernest Windholz has also praised you several times because we thought you had some good opportunity to actually implement reforms in the education system. We urgently need reforms, they are necessary. But now you've been kneeling in front of the union. Mrs. Minister, you capitulated! This prevents you yourself – you yourself, Mrs. Federal Minister! – Your own school reform. The fact is, the union won. Mr Amon rubs his hands here and says that the image of the teachers is massively damaged. – Of course, this whole discussion about school reform has, of course, greatly damaged the image of teachers. The Austrians, however, have little understanding of this stubbornness. They have other concerns, even fears of existence – we discussed them yesterday – because 305,000 people are currently out of work, and they are going to be more than 500 000 a day, up to 500 000 this year. Around one million citizens live below or below the poverty line. The fact that the privileged teachers do not make a solidarity contribution is a real naughtiness! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Amon: This is especially wrong!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is immense – really immense! – not to contribute in the crisis. This is because large and necessary reforms have already failed in the approach, with the motto: SPÖ-ÖVP – nothing goes anymore. The two reforms in the administration and health system alone would bring a total of €6 billion to Austria. These reforms do not allow you, you reject them, and therefore we reject the budget from the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63447	Mr Neubauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63471	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Liste of the BZÖ has just made the claim that a liberal national councillor should have gone into bankruptcy. [[Call at BZÖ: Who is this?]] I'm actually correcting: There is no liberal national councillor who went into bankruptcy. [[Abg. Hörl: Congratulations!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Only his company! Excuse me, Mr President, once again: only his company!]] I'm trying not to repeat untruths. They do not become more true when they are repeated several times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63533	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63554	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I would now like to turn from the culture in our house to the budget for art and culture in Austria. I think the minister succeeded in this very good mix, namely the mixture between the preservation of old masters and the promotion of young wilds. The preservation of existing ones is shown by the fact that the museums have received an additional budget increase, of course also with the task of implementing the free entry for young people. Minister Schmied reported earlier that it was agreed to start discussions in June so that this could be set up next year. In my opinion, it is very important to allow young people access to the so-called high culture, because our society can only move on if we put traditions in the foreground, but on the other hand we also promote new art styles, new art holes and also new cultural institutions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, free entry is a contribution to this, but there are many other offers that can be covered and promoted with this budget. Much has already been said about the film, and also about the successes Austria and its filmmakers have achieved in recent years. By increasing the film budget, we will probably still be able to share in many more successes, because there is the basis for a good climate in which film-makers can work and gain success. The promotion of young artists is also an essential aspect. So there are the youth scholarships and also the promotions of foreign studios. What is also very important and what we always have discussions about is the protection of art and culture creators. In this respect, there are substantial measures and further developments. We have not yet reached the optimum, but we are very interested in it, and a study on the situation of artists will continue there. The cultural concept of the FPÖ and BZÖ groups, which actually only want to have culture with sugar casts and lipizzans, can only be rejected. For us, art and culture have much more to do with. The view of the dark chapters in our history is also a very essential and important one. We have to put ourselves out of this, and we have to work it up culturally and artisticly, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63602	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63624	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! The budget at first glance looks more promising than it actually is, taking into account the inflation rate and the financial framework for the next few years. [[Abg. Riepl: Have to look at it twice!]] . I'm sure I'll look at it twice, my colleague. Unfortunately, there can be no talk of a glorious or great increase. I also hope that you, Mrs Bundesminister, will have the opportunity to comply with your own schedule in the future. There are still some open construction sites to which you have pointed out, Tag Restitutionsgesetz, Volkskundemuseum, lack of depths for the National Library, and – you have mentioned it – free entry for young people in federal museums, which we have to give from 2010 onwards and which we have always demanded from the BZÖ. But let's stay at the Museum theme: If you look at the budget in this way, you could think that art and culture are primarily represented only in the federal museums. How much subsidies is a visitor worth to the state? – The 2007 Cultural Report highlights the following: If you charge federal funding to the number of visitors, each visitor will be subsidized by the state with 100 €. I mean, that's not so little. Shouldn't you think about thinking about how to avoid internal double-tracks and how to make a museum visit more attractive, Mrs. Minister? If you lack ideas, you can take an example of Dr. Erich Marx and his team from the Salzburg Museum. – You know, as a Salzburg MP, I have to mention this. The young Salzburg Museum was awarded the European Museum of the Year Award this year as the best museum. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Prehauser.]] From this point of view, I would like to congratulate Dr. Marx and his team again, quite cordially. [[As a result of the accident at BZÖ and the SPÖ representatives.]] There you can see, you can also lead a museum winsome. Finally, however, I would like to mention another aspect of museum policy, namely security. Mrs. Minister, I am reminded of the so-called Causa Saliera, but also of several exhibits – several hundred positions and also inventory lists – which have disappeared from the Technical Museum. The prosecutor's office was set up, but the proceedings quickly resumed. Due to inadequate or unfinished inventory by the museum, it could not even be clearly established what is actually missing and how much the damage is. Today, the Technical Museum celebrates its 100th anniversary. The 100 years are to be celebrated for 100 days, and we will look very carefully at the costs – the catering and so on – and we will very well question these things again. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63676	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63698	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Culture costs money. Unculture costs a lot more. For me, culture is more than art, more than creativity, more than creative. Culture is lifestyle and attitude, is value-conscious. This includes political culture, dealing with others, cultivating attitudes toward minorities, tolerance. Weaknesses in this respect are also not to be wagered by aber millions of euros – margin note: see current EU election campaign – but certainly through a greater democratic awareness of law and values. – So much about the political culture of some in this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should also like to focus briefly on what Mrs Unterlander of the FPÖ has said about our successful filmmakers Ruzowitzky or Haneke. I hope I did not misunderstand you – if so, then I would have to correct it – but I have heard from your speech that the material aspect of film success is clearly more valuable to you than the artistic, valued colleague – and that is not my cultural concept. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Perfectly misunderstood! It's completely misunderstood!]] But what I must have heard out, which I think is quite clearly happening again and again in some speeches of your party, these are the ambiguous allusions between the lines. If it's not right for you to open up the horrors of the past and you'd rather just play comedies, then that's transparent. [[Abg. May. Unspoiled: Oh, yeah!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grainy.]] I would like to remind you that, with these ambiguities, the right thought is being restored to the right direction of train, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. We are a right party!]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Right-wing extrem!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to address Mr Jannach's speech, which I could, on the other hand, obtain some sympathetic passages. I am active in the VOLKKKULTURY NETHERLANDS myself, but I would like to ask you not to understand the terms “home” and “people culture” in a backward, eternal sense. [[Abg. Grain Duration: What do you think?]] Homeland and folk culture can also be open, tolerant and forward-looking, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: They were in the past too!]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: have our great-grandfathers too!]] Now I'll come back to the cultural budget again. Ladies and gentlemen, this cultural budget is positive. Culture has been upgraded, the importance of culture has increased – for example, by free entry into federal museums for children and young people or by increasing funds for cultural initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the Federal Minister for this open, forward-looking cultural policy. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63841	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63862	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This debate was to be expected because in the run-up to the budgetary negotiations this was the first obvious, serious conflict between the government parties. The reform efforts of the Federal Minister were therefore not crowned by success. The success of each reform also has something to do with financialability, and the coalition partner – or even more precisely – has torpeded everything and everyone to the detriment of education policy. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: That's right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] If the President is now over the Minister, it is somewhat symbolic. He has prevailed with lobbyism, and what has come out at the highest level – between German Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors – is a truly unfit compromise. If someone wants to sell the hour of rent at the BIG as a “reform, ” you can only shake your head. What is urgently needed is, of course, a new right of service and remuneration in the same sense. This means that more money will be needed at the beginning of the financing process, because there will have to be higher entry salaries and then a flattening, so that the living income will remain the same. However, higher entry salaries must be granted at the beginning. With regard to the question of what additional payment is made to teachers – the lion's share is used for personnel costs – I am now allowed to inform you of the figures I have received as a result of a request answer. I asked for overtime services – for many it is not possible to imagine that the teachers are overtime – but then you have taken other formulations. Thus, it is no longer “overtimes”, but “longer service”, which means nothing more than that these overtimes cannot be demonstrated in individual cases, but it is assumed that there is a constant overrun of full employment and individual multi-services in the case of representation – these are these supplements, which are not always paid out. I can only inform you of these figures for the Federal Teachers: Mrs. Federal Minister! In your department, 182 790 481 € were spent on permanent multi-services in the school year 2007/2008, with the supplements added 10 561 651 €. Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied, that is not possible for any Austrian. I should like to ask you to look at the matter and find out how it can lead to such high overtime expenditure. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have also asked for staff representation, which – in your area – should be a very intense one. You have alone in the federal schools – and with this indication you do not draw the number of teachers, but you speak of “units of values” – 30 exempt teachers. I think that's too much to question. If you need money for reforms, I can urgently ask you to let the idea of saving in this area. To sum up, you were carried by honest motives, but you failed in your coalition partner. You yourself have noted that you are skeptical of the feasibility. I can tell you: The vast majority of the population is behind these reforms that are urgently needed! Mr Amon – to whom I have listened today – seems to have gone too far even what the Federal Minister Gehrer has done. He doesn't want a step back, he wants several steps back. Mrs. Federal Minister, have courage, put it in place, it's high time!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63927	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63948	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out in principle that art and cultural policy cannot only be tied to the naked figures. It is equally relevant, at least, what kind of art and culture is supported by the available means, and for us social democrats is clearly in the foreground that there is a contemporary, critical and progressive art claim, on which the main focus of support must be. As a Member of Vienna, it is a special concern to me and I am particularly pleased that since the adoption of the Ministry of Art by a SPÖ politician, the Vienna share in the art budget has also increased significantly, from € 34 million in 2006 to € 36 million in 2008. [[Call at the FPÖ: at the expense of the federal states!]] [[Abg. Hornek: This is unscrupulous, how much money flows into this area into the federal capital! That's incredible!]] It is also very important: The funding for the music and performing arts department has also fallen because, with the completion of the renovation of the theatre in the Josefstadt, the grants have naturally expired, but there are other departments whose resources could be significantly increased. It is expected that the same level will be achieved for 2009. I would also like to mention that the Wien Museum has been included in the promotion of art and culture and that the funding measures are always dependent on the projects submitted. Therefore, no serious forecast is to be made for 2010. I hope that the working group from the staff of the Ministry and the City of Vienna will quickly come to fruition with regard to the division of tasks for future funding priorities for the Volkstheater, the Theater in Josefstadt and the Wiener Kammeroper. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that, in this tense economic situation, a highly flexible artistic and cultural budget could be negotiated and that she would like to focus on contemporary and critical art with the act of art. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e63998	Next speaker: Member of the jury. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64019	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! A cultural budget, an art budget for the years 2008 and 2009 in a difficult economic situation is certainly difficult to make if everyone is to be satisfied with each genre. But I think you have managed to give proper support to the youth among the artists in particular. As mayor of a cultural and artistic city – the cultural and artistic city – Gmünd in Carinthia, which has focused its attention on contemporary visual art, I am very pleased to be able to expect enough money from the ministry for the next few years. I know, Mr Zinggl, that is tiring for you, but if you think we need small, fast, mobile boats: Just these cultural initiatives are these small, fast, mobile boats. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And these are also available in rural areas and not just in the conurbation centres. For the future, Mrs. Bundesminister, one should also consider the tax deductibility when buying works of art and art production, because I believe that this would be the most effective support of our artists and thus also the youth among the artists. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64059	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64114	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It's nice that you don't like my wardrobe that you liked my wardrobe better in the morning, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party. You can buy appropriate T-shirts at any time at greenzeux.at if you want to run around like this yourself; please. [[Abg. Neubauer: Internet shipping?- Oh, my God!]] Let me make a few comments on education policy. Several speakers have pointed out that we in Austria have an extremely socially selective education system, in other words, that education is inherited in Austria, that we have a system – unfortunately we are at the forefront of this system in Europe together with Germany – in which rich people can provide their children with much better education than that of children of underprivileged families. This is a problem in several respects. It is a social problem because it is a question of lack of equal opportunities, because we have a large proportion of children in our system who have no chance of having a positive education degree from the outset. We are cultivating social problems here; we must all be aware of this. Secondly, however, it is also a national economic problem, because Austria leaves very, very many reserves of talent. Many talents in this country do not come to the training they would be able to provide, and this will create long-term problems for us. That is why we have decided to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to ask you to support this and look forward to the Committee's discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64166	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64224	There are no longer any further words on the chapter entitled “Instruction, Art, Culture”. This concludes this subject area. [[12:05:41]] Transport, innovation and technology UG 41: Transport, innovation and technology UG 34: Transport, innovation and technology (Research)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64257	We now come to the negotiation of the part of transport, innovation and technology. Mr Vilimsky was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64285	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! Let me start with some basic findings. First of all, the numbering work, which is being debated today and in the past days and also tomorrow, is an obsolete numbering work, because the well-known experts in this country say that the economic dynamic, which unfortunately is a very, very bad one, makes the essential pillars of this budget obsolete. [[Abg. Krainer: Haven't you found out what it's all about?]] Secondly, What we are doing here, Mr Krainer, is a waste of time. We debate the individual budget chapters for four days from early to late, and I still remember the demands of Mr. Clubobmanns Cap, who is not now with us, who said: If the SPÖ has a responsible role here, then this House will be revived, there will be an active parliamentaryism, and we will take the opposition proposals seriously! – Not a single number behind the comma changes after these deliberations. And this is bad, because it does not benefit parliamentarianism here, but, on the contrary, political starkness is actually just going to continue to rise. And the third finding of principle is that this debate is superimposed by inconspicuous attacks by prominent parts of the Austrian National Council against the Third President of this House, Dr. Martin Graf, who has made no more and no less than that he has raised, after a series of very, very delicate, partly criminally relevant accusations that the President of the Israeli Cultus Community has used against him and against us, and thus against almost 20 percent of the Austrian population represented here by 34 mandates, here once again the verbal emergency law, once the right to fight verbally! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: No one said anything against the population!]] And what was the result? – The SPÖ did an interesting act yesterday. The SPÖ, represented by its clubman Josef Cap, said that the SPÖ has found itself in a club meeting, has discussed, debated how the current situation is. Mr. Klubobmann Cap has called after the sniper and wants to achieve a political liquidation of Dr. Martin Graf. We take note of this, but we also say to you: It's all coming back to life. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Thank God!]] And the next time you knock on our door because you need anything again because you are dissatisfied with the ÖVP, we will remind you of how you deal with us. Because that's a real community! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Is that a threat? Do you want to threaten?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ as well as calls to the FPÖ.]] A short while ago, I would also like to advise you, because you are now crying together with the “green wolves” and going out on us as well. [[Abg. Petzner: You're so poor!]] Not long ago, the President of the Israeli Cultural Community, Ariel Muzicant, has referred to your Tyrolean head of state and former Minister of the Interior Platter: When Interior Minister Platter – I quote Ariel Muzicant – stressed that I only comply with the laws, I feel that I have a very terrible association. Of course, without wanting to compare the minister with that person, but Adolf Eichmann has also defended himself in his trial with the words that he only fulfilled the ruling laws and declared himself innocent. – As far as Ariel Muzicant is concerned as one of your well-known representatives. I think that if any representative of a community of faith attacks any group of this House, this group must also have the right to give a political response here, and not to get a muzzle somewhere. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: But the statements are self-evident!]] And the absolute low point is that the Greens, who send out their political hatredist, Mr Walser, here. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: And how does transport policy look? What do you mean by traffic policy?]] – And with “Hasspreacher”, I quote a terminology of the SPÖ chairman, the Federal Chancellor Faymann. – If you believe, Mr Walser, that you can get out with a Bayerl and give “Your shame is Martin Graf” the best – Petzner, be quiet! – then violate the dignity of this house! [[Abg. Petzner: You have no idea of transport policy!]] And both of you keep silent about that. [[towards President Mag. Prammer and President Neugebauer]] It would be just as if someone were going out and saying: Your shame is called Barbara Prammer. Yeah, what's going on? Wings You have a development in this direction? That's something more than bad. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Don't know anything and talk big!]] [[Abg. Petzner: I don't know about transport policy!]] Now on the real issue, on the budget chapter, so that Mr Petzner's excitement can cool off a little. This chapter on transport is characterised by a very drastic debt in the field of ÖBB and Asfinag. In the next three to four years, we will go towards 20 billion debt at the ÖBB, and at the Asfinag in the next few years towards 10 billion in debt. [[Abg. Grosz: We want to hear the singer! He understands at least something about highways!]] That is to say, adding both debt levels – perhaps you can remind Mr Grosz a little bit of rest; that would not be bad – one realizes that these debts already account for about half of the government's revenue. It is my accusation that, on the part of the minister responsible, it was not taken into account in time to take a reorganisation course here, but that this policy of exorbitant debt is simply being pushed forward. And my accusation is that in the area of criticism by Minister Bures, something has become visible, namely that she wanted to unify the transport penalties. So far, so good. Only: She didn't unify her down, she united her yet up. Now you can discuss whether it would not be possible to raise the penalties upwards in the event of alcoholization, too fast driving and cetera. All right, yes, but only on the condition that these funds, which are lifted, are not used to achieve a bad budgetary policy, but are actually pumped into honest measures of road safety. I remember how Mr. Faymann was the German Chancellor and I was allowed to give my speech here and presented to him my ideas on transport policy, and I thought it would be good if all the speakers of the transport were to sit down and look: Are there any quantities of what we want politically? At the time, Kurt Eder, now no longer here in the house, came to me and said: What you have said is a bad idea – let's get together, I'm talking to the Minister! Kurt Eder spoke to then Minister Faymann, and three times you can guess what came out: nothing at all! There has still not been a round of transport speakers, which is common in other resorts. Mr Faymann – and his successor, Mrs Bures – is not even on the verge of hearing the proposals of other parties here on a political level. He doesn't even want to listen to them, no, but he's just going through what he believes. This is not a good policy for me, because there are many, many proposals where with little money, for example, in the area of transport safety or flexibility in the area of charges for the public could be achieved very much, but it is simply not addressed. And what is common in other resorts is to sit down in the extra-parliamentary space, to see if there are cuts of what we all want in common, just not to take place in the era Faymann or also in the era Bures. I claim: What the Federal Minister Bures has done in the area of women in her department, but also as the Managing Director of SPÖ and now in the field of transport, is not a good balance, and the conversation culture that should actually be there is not there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Get out when you have something to say! We will not approve of this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64523	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64544	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to congratulate Mrs Bures on this budget approach. [[Abg. Grosz: And thank you!]] [[Abg. Grosz: And thank you too!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And Bussi give!]] Mrs Bures has succeeded in putting clear emphasis on investments in the budget negotiations, which we very much need. [[Abg. Grosz: He makes it almost as formal as Mr. Pendl!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you also want to thank yourself, I am pleased if you agree with this. High house! Thus, it has been possible to increase the resources for the expansion and modernisation of transport infrastructure significantly, which is expected to have a positive impact on employment. The budget of the Federal Ministry of Transport is very much in line with the fight against the economic crisis and against unemployment. Now a few numbers: 2009 to 2014 – annually, please! – €2.3 billion flow into the expansion of the rail. Another € 1.4 billion a year will be invested in the development of the road network. That is total, from 2009 to 2014, € 18.5 billion. These huge investments not only contribute to modern, social and environmental infrastructure, but also ensure job security. Today's investments will certainly benefit a number of generations, generations of successors, even in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen! The rail projects alone ensure 50 000 jobs. The construction projects are intended to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which need it so urgently. All major railway projects – and this is especially important to me – and road projects have also been subject to feasibility studies and economic calculations. Positive macroeconomic effects have been demonstrated, such as the West Railway, the Koralm Railway, the Semmering Base Tunnel, the Brenner Base Tunnel and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! Each euro invested brings an average of € 2 benefits to the economy. I think we should agree that, just now that the construction industry is suffering most from the economic crisis, the companies need work, jobs need. And we want to protect people from unemployment. But it is not only about giving adults a job, young people also need work, but also about training. There is nothing worse than a young person without a teaching post, without prospects in life. As Austria's largest apprentice trainer, the ÖBB gives hundreds of young people this perspective. In September, the ÖBB employs 1 870 apprentices, 100 apprentices more than in the previous year. High house! A powerful infrastructure is an essential factor. In the rail industry, especially in Austria, there is a real need to catch up. I have already mentioned several times here from this speaker's desk that 70 percent of the Austrian rail network, the Austrian rail routes, are still from the monarchy. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Federal Minister Doris Bures presented a budget for the transport sector, which can really be seen. There will also be a lot of moving with it. Again: 50 000 additional jobs will be secured. Youth unemployment is being combated. The economy is being strengthened. The shift to environmentally friendly rail is being forced. And, ladies and gentlemen, of course, the citizens benefit from the investment: They get modern railway stations as well as faster and safe rail and road connections.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64634	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64655	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I would now like to welcome the colleagues from the military command Vorarlberg, but unfortunately it has disfellowshipped Mr Vilimsky with his verbal statements and his gestures; unfortunately. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vilimsky.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Bures is really sorry. I would like to thank you for what your predecessor, Mr Grinsekanzler Faymann, has left you, this is a scrapping pile. Actually, you could say you're not Alice in the wonderland, but Doris in the sniper country. I'm sorry you had a lot of tasks to do, unfortunately you've got a budget too low. [[Abg. Vilimsky: A real top hetoriker, Mr. Hagen!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly pleased – even if Mr Vilimsky always has to protest; I know it hurts when you hear the truth – that the problem of the vignettes for second-vehicle vehicles has been addressed by Mrs Volksanwältin Stoisits medially. I would like to remind you that the BZÖ has made several applications in this direction. We have now put forward a motion for a resolution again. As Mrs Stoisits told me, she would not have been praised by the Greens for this excuse, but the proposal would come from the People's Advocate Kostelka, who belongs to the Red half of the empire. And that is why I naturally expect you, Madam Minister, to support our request and the SPÖ to accept this request. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would now like to address the transport problem in Vorarlberg. The situation in the lower Rhine valley, Bregenz is catastrophic. A traffic solution has been sought here for over 30 years. Due to a bird that has never been seen, the S 18 project has now been blown off. No one has seen him yet, just heard him. Some have birds, some hear them. But the population is suffering from this situation, and I would like to ask you, Mrs Minister, to take up this follow-up S 18 project. The problem is certain that the Vorarlberg Government is doing too little here. It's just going to get on the brake. Now, it seems that a working group on the part of the ÖVP has been set up in which loud roadblockers are sitting, among other things, a Mr Poster, who criticizes everything and everyone when it has to do with traffic. Such people sit inside and are supposed to create a transport concept. He has never made it to the National Council or in any other office, but he always does great criticism. Or the nature reserve Hildegard Brainer – such people sit in this working group and decide whether the population will be relieved of traffic or whether new roads will be built. These are project-preventors, and such people do not belong to them! Minister, take Please put that in your hand so that something will go forward here! Mrs Bures, you really cannot be envyed if I look at the situation at AUA, Post and what's going to happen to us. Mr Grinsecanzler has left you really extremes here. You are really sorry, and I would like to support you in many areas. Please do something! Now I would like to address the colleague from the SPÖ, who spoke yesterday on the social budget item on the contingency situation of the former Vice-Cancellor Gorbach. She said nothing about the budget, the only one she spoke about was that Mr Gorbach had the highest Spesenbudget. I'd like to explain a little bit about this now. Mr Gorbach had a place to listen to three members of the board. Now the resort is speculated and consists of only one member of the resort; that was already the case under Faymann. Now the interesting one is coming, and this is worrying for me: If I see in a question made by Mr Walser in the Committee on Budgets that representation costs are higher for a member of the committee today than they were under Gorbach for three members of the board, then there can be something wrong with that, Mrs Minister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Social Democratic waste!]] A SPÖ member goes out here, throws stones – and does not notice that she is sitting in the glass house herself. This has to be shown once. But I would like to focus on something more. If Mr Jannach goes out of here and insults BZÖ, Mr Strutz, I would also like to keep the mirror on you. Let’s see what the “NEWS” says: EU taxpayers for mills' right hand hand! Interestingly, €200 000 in five years, Mr. Mölzer has collected funding from the EU. [[Oh, call at BZÖ.]] And now something's coming up: Mr Mölzer is also entitled to approximately €17 000 per month for the employment of assistants. On the homepage of the European Parliament, the employees of Mölzers are listed: Dieter Holzfend, Bernhard Tomaschitz and Dimitry Grieb. And now it will be interesting, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, to listen carefully: ==References====External links== January 2009 an article sponsored by the EU Parliament in the “Current” newspaper. Most of the reports paid with EU funds come from Tomaschitz, who is also the editor-in-chief of “Current”, and Mr Grieb is in turn head of the service at “Current”. Interesting yet: The owners of the leaf, into which all the funding goes, are a group, “W 3” is called this, and commanditist of this KEG is Mr. Mölzer, EU Member, who otherwise has no income, ladies and gentlemen. [[Oh-noise and applause at BZÖ.]] So: If you point to others with your finger, then come at your own door! [[Abg. Vilimsky: That's what someone like you says! That's ridiculous!]] I would like to recall the case of Rosenstingl or also that Heinz-Christian Strache in Nenzing in Vorarlberg supports a mosque and at the same time demonstrates in Vienna with the cross against mosques. [[Abg. New builder: This is great for traffic!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, first look yourself in the mirror – and then you can go out here and criticize!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64773	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64794	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion on the third President of the National Council has also shaped the speech of the speaker of the FPÖ. I believe that one can certainly express the opinion that it is unbearable what has been said in recent days. But what really surprises me is the position of the President-in-Office of the Council of the Council, Mr Prammer, for she has the power to govern it by means of the Rules of Procedure in such a way that the Third President at least no longer holds the Presidency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The two – Fritz Neugebauerhat perhaps not so much joy with it – would have to work a little more, but at least it would be ensured that the Third President of the National Council no longer has a Presidency. That would be a small contribution and a relief for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: This is very interesting what ÖVP says!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is to be discussed today under the Transport chapter is really the entire transport policy that we have to do in Austria, and I would have expected all to make a contribution to the overall transport policy in Austria, taking into account the international dimensions, that is: How are the Magistrals set up, from east to west, from north to south, and how does development look? With the aim of also knowing: When is there a closed European transport concept? Of course, this also leads me to know: What does one kilometer cost, whether on the track or on the road? Do you have to afford yourself at all costs every kilometer, or are there priorities here? And there is also the exciting question to ask: What does that kilometer bring? Does that need the market? And what are the results to be achieved? I would like to see this in the context of an overall marginal approach, such as the transport planning of Austria, both in terms of rail and road, and whether it is not possible to recognize a patchwork in which perhaps we could or should set another priority in terms of investment, taking into account: What does that mean for passenger transport, what does that mean for freight transport, what does it mean for the supply of individual regions? Then, of course, you can also ask the question: When are the magistrals so expanded that exactly those trains that you're planning for? From this point of view, it is also possible to see which revenues can be achieved in this area. This is, of course, due to the cost of use, which can be calculated. And there is also the question: How will action be taken in the future? Will there be a corresponding increase in the user charge where there is large investment, or will the user charge be transferred to all networks, and will all pay at the same time? I also believe that – and I then come to speak again on the organisational structure of the Austrian Federal Railways – a subject should be the question: How does the market assessment look? If it is built or the company is planning to invest, it would still be interesting to know whether there is also a need for a market assessment so that one does not miss out on the need. And the principle that the Austrian Federal Railways, at least so far – sometimes seen by the observers – have applied: Recognize yourself and burden one another!, is exactly what leads to a lot of things being too expensive that we should put off in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me also address the transport of goods which, despite the crisis – no question, of course, there has been burglary – has a considerable performance. We have a decline of about 16 percent in freight transport in the first quarter, which is unacceptable, but this is actually the economic development. In addition, I can tell you that Schenker in Germany has a drop of a third, that in Belgium in the freight sector there is a 50 percent reduction, that in the Eastern countries between 45 and 55 percent of the transport substrate has been lost, and that three state railways, namely those in Romania, Slovakia and Bulgaria, are de facto bankrupt. On the other hand, we know that the Austrian Federal Railways in freight transport have developed into one of the three major players next to the Deutsche Bahn (MAV Cargo) with the acquisition of the MAV Cargo. And the relationship between the German and Austrian railways is not as usual 1 : 10, but 1 : 4. This shows that strategic decisions have been made. But you should be careful – and here I am entirely of your opinion – because in the past much has been rationalized in freight transport, much optimized, much bundled to make economy more economical, but at the same time the calculated costs have increased despite this development. So that's what it's saying now to be observant and to try to counter it. The draft reform of the ÖBB legislation, which we now have in mind, is a draft that will certainly not reorganise the Austrian federal railways. But I also confess to you: So much for my appreciation of the talks with the representatives of the Federal Minister's cabinet, I was annoyed at your interpretation of the outcome of our negotiations. That is why I still see a certain need for adjustment, with the indication that, even if this law is passed, we need to know that this does not yet constitute a restructuring of the Austrian federal railways. I am concerned about the result situation in the Austrian Federal Railways in 2009. I am concerned about the equity situation and the development of the equity situation: only last year, 19 percent fell to 10 percent. I am concerned about the financial debts of the Austrian Federal Railways in the area of Infrastructure Bau AG. The potential for savings, which was taken into consideration by 10 percent, has not been respected in any way – also a cause for concern. I also say quite frankly to you that I believe that the culture that exists should be lived a little differently. Nowhere in the world is there that the works council or union president is the first to represent the result of the balance in the public. This is everywhere else reserved for the bodies, the discussions there – and after that there is a discussion in the public. I also believe that ÖBB may stand for “Austria’s budget burden” and against it. This will also be the subject that we will be discussing in the future. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Bucher and Mr Scheibner on his work.]] Let me also say a sentence on post-liberalisation, because this will also be an issue that will concern us in the next few days. The draft, which was under review, has not been discussed by the ÖVP so far. Unfortunately, there has not yet been any conversations with God. I believe that we have a considerable need for discussion on the issues of collective contractual arrangements on the subject of partial access to house letter facilities, land tax boxes, financing the same. I regret that these discussions have not yet been held, but I must note that you have put pressure on this draft to the review. My offer to negotiate in the next few days stands. I am just curious about the extent to which there is movement from your side, because, as this law stands, I see no way of agreeing here. One last thing: I am glad that we have developed very constructively together in the area of transport safety measures, which we will soon decide here in the house. In fact, I also imagine a cooperation between the coalition partners, which I have not yet seen in the field of the postal market law and also the ÖBB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64870	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64891	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bures, the Federal Minister of Finance, you are inevitably among the winners of the budget negotiations, especially in view of the massive economic crisis. Mrs Bundesminister, your budget grew, no question. You have had the advantage that, as lord of investment, you have received additional funds, not only in the normal BMVIT budget, but it has been promised you to be allowed extra-budgetary in billions, be it via the ASFINAG or through the ÖBB. You, Mrs Minister, are constantly going to the public and say: Yes, these are investment packages, these are future packages, so we secure values for future generations! I would like to show you today with details, with some examples, that this policy of promulgation, this justification policy, not only stands on tones and is built on sand, will lead to new debts that will effectively serve only a small part of the population, namely the financiers, banks and construction lobbies. Your budget – with an extra-budget debt in billions of amount via ÖBB and ASFINAG – is totally financed by pump, and this, please, with a benefit that is marginal. I can prove it! To whom does this whole billion-dollar flood benefit, this billion-dollar flood in the motorway construction sector, in the highway construction sector and also in the ÖBB tunnel project building? I just call it a keyword: Brenner Base Tunnel. Who exactly does that use? Let's take a look at this! There is certainly no mother, there is no child who will benefit by sinking billions here. It would be much more useful for people to use this money, Mrs Minister, not only for research but also for the development of public transport. I admit that you have been able to increase the funds, the payments, the public services, something about the ÖBB – only because we already have the first problem: The report on the public service of the ÖBB – which has so far been around € 570 million – covers seven pages. Our report on tourism, with not even 50 million, covers at least 200 pages. The reporting of the conditions under which the quality requirement et cetera of the ÖBB is financed by its public services is extremely inadequate! Here we are on the main problem of your investment policy: If it really benefits customers, does it benefit the ÖBB users, what you invest? Don't we have massive problems in quality, timetables, slow travel? Get out of Vienna, Mrs. Minister! You have said in the “profile” that you are on the road relatively much. You will experience when you use a regional expression that you only have 17 slow-friction points on the 38 first kilometers between Vienna-Westbahnhof and Neulengbach. I emphasize: 17 slow down! Of course, we have the heritage of the monarchy, and we simultaneously build the Wienerwald tunnel, but nevertheless, Mrs. Minister, primarily belong to the ÖBB to preserve the inventory – and we did not drive the new building forward in dimensions that lead to a quadruple debt of the ÖBB in the shortest time. We're still talking about the Brenner base tunnel. Mrs. Minister, remember that we are going on the gels of the monarchy from Salzburg to the south, to throw, and there the railway ices are repeatedly threatened by avalanches and floods, there are rejects there! If I look at your outline, the following is interesting. – You have presented a part of the public; I have already been worried about the whole. I know that's "illegal," but I have my way. It is even a joke that Parliament does not receive detailed information on billions of investment, that you are always committing this to Parliament, that the framework plan is never debated in the Transport Committee or here in plenary. – This framework does not again include the renovation of the line from Salzburg to Werfenweng, but it does not include the improvement or construction of tunnels in this area, where the improvement of local transport, public transport would be urgently necessary for the commuters! Mrs Minister, if we are already on this issue, the transport for the commuters: Look Once again, take your own framework plan! For Linz you have even removed the City S-Bahn! There's nothing left in there. This is the result of the activities of your country-political counterparts – I only call Landeshauptmann Deputy Haider of SPÖ: With the former Minister of Transport Faymann, the current Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, he has set the regional liner as a future project, as a discussion object in the world, and what is the result? – In the framework plan, you delete the preliminary project, namely the City-S-Bahn. Linz now has no resources for public transport at all – through you! Ridiculous private railway financing options are still available. Let's see in Vienna! In Vienna we have the same thing as interesting to see. Vienna has the favour that 50 percent of the subway expansion by the Federal Government will be co-financed by the Federal Government. Here, too. – This is a daily benefit for people! Subway construction: minus 20 percent for Vienna. – Yes, my goodness, for that we have plus xxx billions for the coral tunnel, we have plus xxx billions for the Brenner base tunnel. [[Abg. Dolinschek: That's right!]] – This is your customer orientation?- Oh, my God! I say it again and again: You have a lot of money, only you spend it completely wrong. And there's nothing to do with you. Their generation values keep meeting again and again. Please, a very simple example: Let us assume that the Brenner base tunnel has no access from Germany to an increased extent, to an expanded extent. And Germany has not complied with the EU Treaty of Accession to this day! This is high-level EU law, which is legally anchored that the route between Munich and Kufstein has to be extended on the rail – and that has not been done to date. They sign freshly and cheerfully one memorandum after another, and one Council of Ministers decides that we will put 8 billion in a tunnel where the inlet is not expanded, although it is contractually secured! I mean, where are we, Mrs. Minister? Look You're going to APA today! What's going on? – Italy complains because we have the selective driving ban. Indeed, the selective ban on trucks should serve to increase the transport of the goods on the rail – and your Brenner base tunnel should serve to strengthen the way through the goods. And our dear partner at the Brenner Base Tunnel complains of us, Italy complains of us because we are taking measures that are intended to shift and to use the tunnel! – I mean, ten times a day you get to the head when you move forward on a policy where our neighbors let us down completely! Your signing policy in the memoranda – I know it from your ten predecessors, who signed 25 memorandas – is legally totally irrelevant. Legally totally irrelevant! I can also present it to you in detail, I have also obtained this secret document, because you can't get it officially. I mean, it's easy to get out of there. Look at this. EU declaration. The EU welcomes the EU's call for EU support, but the EU does not commit itself! The EU does not guarantee legal reliability towards more cost-reliability. Nothing's in there! Or: Consensus measures. So that's Peanuts! On the other hand, those measures that would really lead to a shift are not considered relevant in this document – which has a total of 40 pages. Or: The rules of the Road Costs Directive do not even benefit you! That's the problem: They build a tunnel – 8 billion tax money to the future – and they do not ensure that, for example, the EU allows for the full deployment of trucks in the sub-inntal of the trucks. There we have, comparatively, low-cost tariffs so that the local food industry is protected. They then very well fit the pass track, but you do not use the allowed size below. We also lack this money! You're going to be unbelievable. There will be You are totally unbelievable within the EU! What remains below the limit are the billions of payments we consider to be set by the Council of Ministers. - I've been worried about this too, Mrs. Minister. I can read it again, not only to you, but above all to colleagues, because that is really important. Look This is what you're looking at: Investment volume in 2009 according to the framework plan at ÖBB: €2.1 billion. For the Brenner Base Tunnel share additional € 40 million. 2010: € 2.09 billion; Brenner Base Tunnel: €150 million. That goes up until 2013. We have 1.7 million € of investment under the ÖBB framework plan and half a billion € for the base tunnel. It's also 2014 as well. And that's how it goes until 2025. These are the funds we need to make available from the budget! We have an excuse, Mrs Minister, for we have taken a decision in the budget accompanying legislation. In five years, a total of €3.4 billion will be charged to the pre-tax that we are budgeting. We already secure this for the total budgets by 2015. By 2015 we say that the federal government is taking in additional €3.48 billion. And what now is the ASFINAG investing, what is now additional investment by the ÖBB? – € 3.7 billion per year. Calculate this! The annual difference is already relatively large. If I divide the 3.5 by seven years, then I come to €500 million. This is the federal grant for this annual €3.7 billion investment – which drives ÖBB into bankruptcy and brings ASFINAG to the brink of bankruptcy. That's the problem! Look, do it the way we suggest it: Take back the ASFINAG construction program! We don't need additional transit cars, we don't need S 31, we don't need S 37 – it competes again the coral tunnel. Take ASFINAG-Gelders, pay for the finally necessary expansion of the ÖBB rail infrastructure in the sense of the commuters and the customer benefit! Save That You save the budget something, as you save future generations something, you finally let all people benefit something, and not just the bubby that seems to be really blind patterning you that always supports you. [[Abg. Silhavy:...! That's incredible!]] Mrs Minister, there would be a lot of things to discuss here. I could talk about it for three hours from the stegriff, that's no difficulty. The ‘estimation increase’ is the subject of my closing word. Price increase ÖBB. – The withdrawal, the suspension of the rise in tariffs has cost you €30 million per year up to now. This is a little more than the scrapping premium. [[Call the SPÖ: How much exactly?]] Now you finish by the 30 million € there is no longer any more, the travel prices quickly up by 5 percent. With the ÖBB, the cleaning women can no longer afford rubber gloves for cleaning, which is all part of the ÖBB's savings programme. But billions are investing in tunnel construction. Mrs. Minister! Another billion are flowing into motorway construction. That's not how it goes, I'm sorry! You also have some positive approaches – for reasons of time, I will be happy to send them to you once in writing. And I'm curious about your answer now, because you're supposed to argue and not pray for your creed in the sense of the Baulobby here again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e64958	Mrs Moser, on the point of noting that you could also speak for three hours, I should like to say in the middle of a good order: a maximum of 20 minutes per word. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: I said: “can”!]] The overall speaking time of your group for today is 55 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: “Kings ”!]] Finally, I would like to point out that two motions for resolutions have been announced. I assume they're still being brought in. Mr Muchich. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e65003	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear visitors to the crowd! Mrs. Federal Minister, please do not deviate from your course! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is not about a construction lobby, Mrs. Dr. Moser, but about people! This is about employees and those who do not receive employment, here it is about unemployment! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No! Look, housing brings twice as much employment! Add more money to the housing!]] I'll show you this panel now, and maybe I can give it to you afterwards. [[the speaker places them in front of him on the speaker's desk]] It is about people, about jobs, about unemployed people, about family fathers who do not find employment in the construction industry and therefore have to pay 28 € unemployment benefit per day for their families. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Sure: residential building!]] If you looked at this table more closely, you would see that in the construction sector, unemployment – at the end of April – is twice as high as general unemployment. That is why I say to you: Yes, these infrastructure packages are important! Yes, the expansion measures in the areas of ASFINAG, ÖBB and, of course, BIG are important! And please, Mrs Federal Minister, see that these measures, these decided economic packages, will be implemented in the interests of families, in the interests of the construction workers, as far as possible! A great thank you from this side, not only from the point of view of the workers, but also from the entire construction industry! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The fact that we are still putting in place additional measures that we will need to stimulate economic growth is important to us. Therefore, I can tell you that the social partners, together with the Austrian housing cooperatives, were allowed to present an additional package last week, which will provide additional 5 000 jobs, namely the 2009 housing package. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mrs Moser! Housing package!]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's only 100 million! That's far too little!]] - No, I don't. You don't even listen. There are €302 million in addition – 2 000 apartments in a new building and 1,500 in the area of renovation. That's exactly what you keep demanding! That's why: Do not let yourself be taken away from your course, Mrs. Federal Minister! We are used to the criticism of the opposition when it comes to: Can it be a little more? Can something be better? – The fact is, these packages help. Let us all hope that they will help quickly to prevent unemployment! Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e65145	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e65177	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I get into my subject directly, I would like to say briefly that the last speeches started to be a bit absurd. First of all, a representative of the BZÖ starts with Alemannian accent, talking or fearing that the military command Vorarlberg could be expelled by a speech by Vlimsky. Member of the BZÖ, please note – I am a long-standing soldier – that: A military command cannot dispossess any speech of any Member, let alone yours! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It became more remarkable when the same Member of Parliament launched an attack by means of a magazine called "NEWS" on Mr Mölzer – that is an EU member – and his staff, which is, of course, unproven and there are no responses to this. He takes this on the occasion and makes a connection to the ancient criminal history of Rosenstingl. - That's where it's going to be. It is also worrying if Mr Ferdinand Maier of the ÖVP proposes that the elected third President of the National Council should be banned by non-commissioning the Bureau. – Please, what is the concept of democracy: We just don't use it, so he's not here!Unknown term type: "%s".? We have to deal with this: There are some in this House who want to get rid of Mr Graf as President, and there are some who are of firm conviction – Petzner, please be quiet! – that he is right here! [[Abg. Dolinschek: Theme!]] [[Abg. Petzner: Talk about the subject!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: The topic is transport policy!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, one cannot resort to this extremely undemocratic solution, saying: Well, then we just don't put him in! - That's outrageous! It's really embarrassing what's going on here: There are some people being pulled out, something is thrown continuously – and then they say: Because they are filled, they must not be used. - That's an excruciating thing! Please, what, do you think, are the representatives of the Freedom Party? – These are highly decent, honourable ones, for the Community, for our home country, for this Republic of Austria, women and men who have consistently an excellent vocational training which really strives to give the best for our country, for our country, and because in some things we think a little different than others in this House, which must be allowed in a democracy, which is even a principle of democracy, we are simply excluded. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... self-students!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You always throw yourself!]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Call the SPÖ: This is the problem!]] [[Abg. Petzner: Talk about it! Nobody's interested in what you're saying!]] What is the point of this exclusion? – I can tell you what this is about: It is a question of making us untouchable from the outset, of making us from the outset to those with which you can never and never conclude any agreements, let alone any coalitions. [[Abg. Silhavy:...not as martyrs!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: This tactic does not go up!]] So, more or less, you want to cement your great coalition – and Mr Petzner is supporting you! [[Abg. Petzner: I do not support them, but I claim...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly to a problem – which is really also my problem, even though many others – to the Innkreis Autobahn: Ladies and gentlemen, when the Innkreis motorway was built about 30, 40 years ago, it could not be imagined that the Iron Curtain would fall still in the then late century. [[Abg. Petzner: (demonstrative applause giving) Finally on the subject! Thank you!]] The Innkreis motorway has therefore been constructed a little dimensional. It has now become one of Austria's most important motorways. The Innkreis Autobahn is immeasurably “overrun”, “overpass”, it can no longer take up traffic at all. It is therefore decided to renovate this motorway. - So far, a good thing. Everyone believed: Well, then it becomes three-track in every direction, and that is also necessary. - No, she won't! She'll be expanded, but she won't be three-tracked. Our previous speaker, Dr. Moser, took a significant part in this, because: We of the Greens do not want the Trinity – and if you continue to have a coalition with us by the ÖVP in Upper Austria, you will make the Innkreis Autobahn two-track! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, we want the shift to the track!]] So we do – for a lot of money! – the Innkreis motorway, although wider, but not three-track, but two-track. The traffic chaos remains up-to-date. – So can politics.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e65388	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e65409	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Weinzinger, not a word about the traffic problems – it's sad – unless you've crossed everything on the Innkreis motorway in your Redeck! [[Abg. Petzner: That's it!]] But otherwise, nothing has been said about transport policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call BZÖ: Because he has no idea of it!]] It is all sad that in this budget debate nothing else is discussed by both the left and the right, but the “gravely” chair or self-representation in the T-shirt. Don't we see the problems? – I am here with Mrs Moser, who said earlier that there are so many problems to be solved in the area of transport – for which there are good approaches. Mr Muchitsch has also pointed out the responsibility we have here. [[Abg. May. Stefan:... the essentials!]] - Well, I'm telling you the essential: 50 000 jobs – as the colleague has said – depend on whether we implement or not implement this framework plan at €3.7 billion over the next five years! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: She wants a railway!]] 27 000 post workers also expect an answer to the question of whether we are prepared by 2011 or not, whether we accept that there is a market for service providers who do not want to pay into a compensation fund, who do not want to agree to an industry collective agreement and who have a wage level of 30 percent in their businesses. And these go into competition with our domestic mail, as we, especially the elderly, in the rural sector, depend on having this supply. – And what is more important to you is that we now discuss the right and the left?- Oh, my God! We are not blind on the left eye either, but if we continue these reciprocitys here, then the people in this country will not take us seriously when it comes to a federal budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] Let us recognize the situation! 1 650 postal services – Post today says 450 new services will be built in the coming years. Yes, this is a possibility; in Germany we already have 80 percent private service providers. These are things we need to deal with, and there are also many other things. We have a different situation in traffic than perhaps five or ten years ago. Consider the East-Region Transport Association: There we have 880 million people using these railway lines and other public transport in Vienna. That's an increase she's never had before! We are called upon to respond, not only at the federal level – Mrs Federal Minister, we cannot leave you alone – but also the countries are required, the municipalities are also required. Park-and-ride facilities – this shows when you look at the stations in the rural area – go over! Of course, the spray price situation has contributed to this, but it is a gratifying value in terms of environmental protection if we have an increase in the changeover to public transport. Finally, I might want to cut two or three things – for more, time is too short. The one is the vignette for alternating marks; it has also been addressed by the Freedom Party. Of course, we want a solution for the 300 000 people, including in rural areas, who use these vehicles. There are several ideas, Mr Vilimsky, we have discussed this in the committee, but the ASFINAG is willing to make additional vignettes available by €100, I believe, in our sense. I am pleased that we have come a long way there – as well as at the rescue alley. Mrs Bundesminister, thank you for your willingness in the Committee to open up an opportunity for us to implement this European initiative by voluntary organisations in our country too! Since those from Europe who are travelling in Austria, whether they are Italians or the Germans, are already voluntarily making rescue roads in such a situation – we are experiencing this on the change, we have experienced this early on the South motorway – we also need this European solution. Thank you! More courage for budget discussion and less for party-political hack!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e65513	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e65534	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In times of a financial and economic crisis and rising unemployment, of course, it is undisputed that it is necessary for the ÖBB to expand the rail network, as it exists, to bring it up-to-date, to modernise railway stations, to create jobs and to be prepared for the economy in the future, and to ensure that railway crossings are secured and so on, and to invest in them, because this, of course, benefits the entire population. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Mrs Bures, you have not been able to answer some questions in the Committee on Budgets. That is clear when I ask you: Are the stage plans for the reconstruction of railway stations in order to create accessibility respected? Which stations are preferred by these economic packages? How many railway stations are already barrier-free, and which railway stations are practically not taken into account here? – You told me I got it in writing Paths: To date, it has not yet arrived; I only remind you of that. It would also be in the sense of the people who do not have such an easy time in life and who are disabled that they will receive information about where accessibility will be guaranteed in the future by public transport infrastructure institutions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The attraction of the rail must be driven forward – whether it concerns freight or passenger transport – as well as the safeguarding of local transport as well as the maintenance of regional and secondary railways. Of course, there are also the countries that are calling for them to pay, which is also necessary. Mrs. Federal Minister, it has remained a lot since 2007 by your predecessor, the current Federal Chancellor Faymann. The revision of the public passenger and regional transport law is pending, and the structure of transport associations and their organisation should be reorganised in accordance with European law. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is not only with the railway, not only with the ÖBB, but also with the extension of the high-level road network, the motorways and the highways, for which ASFINAG is responsible, that it is necessary to put in place infrastructure measures. Taking into account the fact that in the first quarter of this year there were still a few things going down in the transport sector and that there were lower revenue for the ASFINAG, I must say that there are lower toll revenue and expansion plans. This, of course, also slows down the repayment of the financial liabilities we have there, and the debt progresses with the Austrian Federal Railways as well as with the ASFINAG. In principle, The amount is not foreseeable, although we now have in the budget that ÖBB's and ASFINAG's financial liabilities increase by €18.4 billion in 2006 by another €10 billion. However, as far as the ceiling is concerned, it is not yet clear exactly how it is going to be. The ASFINAG wants to save, in particular, on expenditure for the expensive electronic signboards and signposts. I very much regret this because so that drivers are immediately informed about traffic jams, accidents and detours, or the speed at high traffic density or pollutant load is indicated electronically and one can react to them. Increase in revenue from fines: Other digital radar devices are being purchased, so in the future the drivers will be “socked off”. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the plenary and at the audience gallery! Now a few sentences to the new postal market law. There are some criticisms as to how this is done: For years, home letter systems are practically reserved for Post AG, a changeover is only carried out until the end of 2013 by Post AG. By 2016, new market participants wishing to make up to 50 grams of letters must bear the costs of refitting to the same extent with the post, even if they have only a minimum market share. Access to the land tax boxes has not been taken into account at all, and this means that an end to security of supply for letters and postal packages in rural areas is pre-programmed. To date, Post AG has been obliged to send letters up to 2 kilograms and postal parcels up to 20 kilograms a day, i.e. five times a week, throughout Austria. The security of supply also applies to bank statements, invoices and so on, is not provided for in the present draft, Mrs Bundesminister, who is based on this Universal Service Regulation. This means that Post AG is no longer obliged to accept and deliver two thirds of all letters across the board. In particular, the rural population is affected, not those in conurbation centres. This will make it more expensive for people in this area. When prices have been cost-oriented so far, this will no longer apply in the future, and summa summarum is such that people have to pay practically the higher fees and spend more on them. Profits are often privatized in these areas, losses nationalized. This is at Telekom, at the post office, at the ÖBB and also at the AUA. Bonifications for managers are paid out even though losses are written – and the employees should give up wage increases! It can't be like that!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e65609	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, no, no, Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e65631	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! On current occasion, if I may say a few words about traffic, I would like to go into the Brenner Base Tunnel. It is obviously necessary to make a bit of advertising from the Tyrolean side for the Brenner base tunnel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Advertising is a business that we Tyroleans understand very well; maybe I can do it. For such projects, consent is generally indirectly proportional to at least the square of distance. Mrs Bures, that's why I'm allowed to appeal to you – and I know you're going to do it: Stay on track! The tunnel is part of a 2 200 km long route from Berlin to Palermo, both for freight and passenger transport. Because it is part of an overall concept, it is not only to be viewed and treated on its own but to be seen as an overall concept. The concept also includes the northern runway from Kufstein to Innsbruck, Mrs. Dr. Moser! I live in the area, and I know very well what I'm talking about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] There is currently a huge traffic in the Unterinntal valley from Kufstein to the Brenner, and on the motorway there is constant congestion. You know that, too. This, of course, hinders all Tyroleans, who, for example, have to commut to the workplace. Of course, the economy is also hampered if the necessary journeys with the car or with the truck through the traffic jams take a very long time. Of course, the population is also damaged because we have bad air values all the time. We live in a so-called air rehabilitation area according to IG-L, Immission Protection Act Air. However, the housing population is also suffering from noise pollution, with significant improvements due to the efforts of recent years, as a result of the construction of many noise protection buildings. In view of these facts, therefore, I do not understand the criticism at all. That is why, in short, I would like to mention essential advantages, Mrs Dr. Moser, if I may address you personally. Just because it is part of an overall concept, in the Unterinntal, the track is extended four tracks; otherwise, it would not be the case. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But that won't be enough!]] Wide lines of the new route run in tunnels or underfloor races. In the future, the new and very quiet passenger trains will be run on the inventory line – you should really be happy! – the louder freight trains and the trains of rapid and long-distance transport will be on the way on the new route. Only by means of the four-track extension will it be possible that there will be a cycle traffic for the many commuters – even that you would have to rejoice from the green side – and a clock traffic that will not pass in the hour rhythm, but then in the half-hour rhythm. At present, due to the lack of capacity, Dr. Moser, there is no clocking possible. They always argue that there are free capacities. But this is a milkmaid bill, because on many weekends, during the night or even in some weeks of the year, there is no market, neither for freight transport nor for passenger transport. So I hope for our federal state that the declarations of intent will soon be implemented and that the financing of the Brenner Base Tunnel will be ensured beyond the period up to 2014. I trust our minister. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e65682	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e65704	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In order to do the form enough, a sentence on the transport budget [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] From our point of view, the wrong priorities are set in the transport budget, and by the way, I think it is a completely wrong time to increase the ÖBB rates now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: Budget debates are not a matter of form!]] - Aren't you? Klubobmann's head meant that budget debates were not a matter of form. This is, of course, a hundred percent right. I also believe that the election of a third President of the National Council is not a formal matter, it is not a use matter, it is a political decision. Yesterday, in the whole of the Republic, from the Federal Government's top duo to the National Council, we held a very broad, very intense discussion on democratic policy standards, and the Green Group, the ÖVP and the SPÖ, I believe, have drawn a very clear, common conclusion by the Members together with the club members yesterday adopted a joint declaration condemning the statements of the Third President of the National Council against the President of the Israeli Cultural Community. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Both the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister as well as the Deputy Chancellor and Finance Minister have also made very clear withdrawal claims, have deposited that they assume that President Graf knows what he has to do. However, he obviously does not know! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] He does not think of averting further damage from the Republic and the reputation of this House. He's not thinking of relinquishing. He does not think of drawing in any form a consequence from his indebted derailments, from his anti-Semitic leave. That's why we have to do that. A majority in this House must have these consequences! It was obviously a political mistake to elect Martin Graf as the Third President of the National Council. Of course, he is also the reason for a discussion of the Constitution and also of the Rules of Procedure – of course! – but this is an occasion that must remind us that we also have the responsibility to ward off damage from Austria and the opinion that one has, for example, domestic and foreign commentators from that country. This has now been said, above all, in the direction of ÖVP: You condemned that yesterday. You have it – absolutely right! – strongly condemned what has been said to the president of a religious community, who was subjected to brutal persecution and murder here in Austria. And I'm asking you: If you are not willing by the ÖVP to allow a choice here now, what are you willing to endure next? We had to listen to it: It has started with “classical Austrian leaders”, and it has continued with “See Mumbai of the antifascist left terrorism”. What's next? Where's your pain limit? – This is addressed to the colleagues of the ÖVP. How far do you want to tolerate this? Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you have the opportunity to support the proposal that I would like to present right now and which we are going to bring in. It's an initiative proposal. It is about amending the federal constitution and the Rules of Procedure, which chooses the way – and it is admittedly a decision that has to be taken, but there is no other one on this issue – to change the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure in the sense that a third President of the National Council must also be chosen against the background of such anti-Semitic departures. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: “Third President”?]] We shall make this request today. We have the opportunity to deal with the parliamentary procedure by summer. That is to say, it is only a few weeks in which we have to “look” here, under quotation marks, how this office is being abused in an insanity. [[Abg. That's what you're doing all the time! Harmlessly add damage to the Republic!]] We could actually decide at the beginning of the summer and draw the necessary consequences from this incredible affair. I now appeal to the colleagues from the ÖVP, who have felt a very great discomfort since yesterday, I think: Make the way free for a election from Martin Graf! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e65803	Mrs Bures spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e65824	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I have great understanding that a discussion is being held on the statements of a member of the Bureau of the House, which I also believe to be unsustainable. [[Abg. Head: On the matter!]] I believe that it is also really important for democratic policy reasons to hold this debate in Parliament. At the same time, however, I would like to ask for an understanding of the opportunity and time to talk about a very important and important area of the budget, namely investment in infrastructure, research and development, as well as issues that have been addressed to me and previous debates. There is always the winged word in budget debates, according to which the budget was the programme put into figures. I think that the planned investment in infrastructure will actually bring this to life, because this federal government has made a clear commitment, because of the economic situation – and this double budget can also be seen in a very close connection with the economic situation: We do not watch when the economy is sleeping in a crisis, we do not watch when unemployment rises, we do not put our hands in the lap, but we will do everything in our power and in our possibilities to counter it in order to boost the economy and thus secure employment. I think that's an hour's commandment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have already mentioned that infrastructure investment has a double effect: investment in modern infrastructure, for example by investing in rail for ecological mobility, also ensures employment at the same time. If we have the opportunity to do so today by means of these investments, we should also take advantage of these opportunities! If, as we know, there is at the same time the highest increase in unemployed people in the construction industry, it is, I believe, obvious that we now have to invest precisely in this area in order to ensure real employment there. And the investments that we make in the framework of the ÖBB framework plan, the economic packages that we have attached to the expansion of the rail sector, will also ensure real employment for 50,000 people in that country every year. That is why these infrastructure measures are so necessary. The second reason is that it is not employment in the form that holes are dug and then re-cast, but employment that actually creates values for the next generations. In this way, we are building an infrastructure network, which, as Mr Heinzl said, does not operate on the tracks of the monarchy, but rather an infrastructure which is based on the 21st century. ==References====External links== We are investing in ecological transport so that people have an incentive to leave the car and get on the train so that freight forwards, freighters and transport companies leave the truck or load it onto the rolling country road in order to shift freight traffic from the road to the rail. These are future investments; they are about the future – including climate protection issues such as CO2 reduction – and about a fast, modern infrastructure that is important for individual users of the railway, but also for the economic location. Therefore, there are two effects: With the investment in infrastructure, we are creating today work and tomorrow an infrastructure from which our children and grandchildren will still benefit! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What are the priorities? – The focus in the area of rail network is quite clear: It is about attracting the central rail networks; it is about speeding up the west railway – by the way, the most popular railway line in Austria – that we will be able to reach in 25 minutes from Vienna to St. Pölten by means of the Lainzer Tunnel, where we recently had the impact. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No, it takes longer!]] If we make this offer, you don't have to get in the car, because then you're a hundred times faster by rail than by car! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We want to extend the West Railway and the South Railway to high-performance trains. Investments on the South Railway will result in the need for four hours to travel from Vienna to Klagenfurt in the future – as today. All people who have an ecological attitude will benefit from this offer in the future and drive with a fast and modern train instead of getting into the car. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Aubauer.]] What is always important to me when investing in infrastructure is that, as I said, we improve the offer for users on the one hand, but on the other hand, this is very important and important for the economic location on the other. Therefore, I am also very concerned that connection railways are also promoted to production plants. We must do everything we can to strengthen the economic location and relocate the transport of goods from the road to the rail. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: And how does the toll look like?]] We have excellent figures in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, to give you an example: In Austria, 33 percent of freight transport is transported on the rails – in the EU average it is just 15 percent, in Germany it is 9 percent. And yet I'm not satisfied. I am working on expanding the high-performance lines because I want to increase this share further because I want freight to roll over the rail instead of over the road! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] In these projects, namely Westbahn, Südbahn, Brenner-Basistunnel – this is not just a tunnel, it is about the route from Vienna to Palermo! – there are also intergovernmental agreements, such as with Germany, which has committed itself to building the runways and has also taken care of them in the budget. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You don't do that!]] All the fear scenarios that are being developed in this way are inappropriate. This will be coordinated with the European Union, as there is a separate EU coordinator. These are European route networks that we are developing together. We do this together with our neighbours, with Germany, with Italy, because it makes sense because environmental protection does not, as we know, stop at the border; therefore, it must be organised Europeanally, whatever happens. And this cooperation, I believe, is important, and we should also acknowledge it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have rightly said that, because of the economic situation, it is necessary to invest in the infrastructure now. That is why, I think, it is also very important for the company that has to make these investments to create the best conditions. That is why I believe that the Austrian Federal Railways need a more efficient structure. [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] I believe it is important that the ÖBB are more efficient and faster and do not have double-tracks. I am very glad that in our discussions we have reached a great deal of agreement on the need for a modern structure for the company to meet the challenges it faces in the future. Therefore, we need a new ÖBB law, which makes the company so powerful that, as I said, it can master the challenges on the one hand, but on the other hand – also the ÖBB are affected by liberalisation – it can also be competitive in the future. I think we should give the Austrian companies such as train and post the value they have. I have a little the impression that their value always comes to our attention when we don't have it anymore, AUA. I don't want this to happen on the train and at the post office. These are companies that do great things. There are thousands of people working hard every day, and I think that we should also be a little more proud of them than I sometimes heard in the discussions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the Federal Government has rightly tied up economic packages and has said that we are investing in infrastructure, we want to build a modern rail infrastructure, then a second decision on future investment was very important, namely the decision to invest in research and innovation. I believe that this is also a very important investment. Around € 340 million will be made available for applied research in my field alone to research today in areas or products to be on the market tomorrow, with a focus on research. That is why we have said in the use of the funding for research funding: There are two areas in which we now have to put a tooth again. One is the crisis-shattered automotive industry. It is important not only to support them with scrapping premiums, but to actually make them fit for the future and to introduce a structural change. We need to support them in such a way that we are driving research in the automotive industry, for example, in terms of e-mobility and less pollutant vehicles, because these are very important investments in the future. That is why we have agreed with the companies, namely with the automotive industry, that this focus will also be reflected in the budget. Therefore, the budget for research on ecological automobiles, on e-mobility and the necessary infrastructure was increased by 50 percent. Although times are difficult, there has been a clear decision. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But obviously!]] We want Austria to have the nose in the front when it comes to research for ecological vehicles, even for cars. With these research resources, we have the chance to have a real nose at the end of the crisis. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Molterer.]] As far as my department is concerned, we have so to speak three major tasks: one means investing, the other means research and the third, which has the same importance, is sparing. I'm convinced that it's time and again to check: Is this investment calculated? Are we also reaching the goals we want to achieve? And: Will the money also be used efficiently and economically? I can assure you – including with all the economic studies underlying all major investments – that these investments are expected to be economic. Many of the measures that one might not see at first sight are investments that have a national economic benefit. If we invest money today to elevate hundreds of railway crossings – which are classified as very dangerous and where too many accidents occur, resulting in human suffering – and to make them safer through underpasses and transfers, this not only has a great benefit to people in terms of transport safety, but it also has a national economic benefit because it saves them costs in a row. It is therefore important to me that, on the one hand, all investments should be made on the other hand, business calculations, but on the other hand, investment in education and infrastructure is always about economic effects. These too must be calculated and reviewed on a permanent basis, and I should like to draw attention to the fact that we are actually achieving these economic effects on investment. In the course of the discussion – although this is not directly related to the budget – I would also like to comment briefly on the postal market law. I assume that we will have the opportunity to discuss it both in committee and in plenary. I can tell you that the legal changes and the necessary measures for a new postal market law to be put in place have always been the following clear objectives: I want us to ensure a comprehensive, high-quality postal service throughout Austria. Not only in the cities, but also in the valleys, even in the small towns, the economy and the population have a right to a high-quality postal service, because this is important for people and for the economy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Bearing in mind this objective, I am convinced that it is necessary to end the existing uncertainty. Today, everyone is actually insecure; when you hear the word “post”, you almost have the feeling that all the cornering together. The population is afraid that the post office will be closed; the mayors are afraid that an important infrastructure will be lost in a municipality; and the employees at the post office are afraid to lose their job. For a company itself, uncertainty is the most unreasonable and economically bad. I therefore felt that we must make a quick effort to create a post-law which eliminates this uncertainty and in which we clearly say, as we imagine, that we ensure a comprehensive supply of postal services throughout Austria; in which we ensure that no wage dumping occurs, but employment relations with wages, of which people can continue to live in the future; in which we ensure that this service is not one that the private will carry out in the lucrative agglomeration centres, so to speak, privatizing profits and wherever the postal service does not promise high profits, namely in rural areas, these losses would be nationalized. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Gahr]] Therefore, the draft new postal market law is also a draft that ensures that it is not possible to pick out the raisins that profits are not privatized and losses are nationalized, because I believe that this would be inaccurate for both the economic and the federal budgets. This postal law is governed by these premises. From my side there is the possibility every day to talk about a new postal market law. Tomorrow I will talk to Mr Maier about this, and today I have had a discussion with the European Commission. I take the review very seriously. It is here to take up good proposals and then to produce a good law. Finally, I would like to thank the officials of my house and the Ministry of Finance very much! These were tough budget commitments. I believe that it is in the nature of the fact that budgetary negotiations are always hard negotiations, but we have finally come to the common view that investment in infrastructure, research and development is the top priority, precisely because of the economic situation. We're not looking at it, we're running against it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e66024	Mr Gahr has now come to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e66045	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Bures has now presented the 2009/2010 budget in a very precise form and very strongly. It's an economic package in itself. It ensures that we invest in infrastructure, mobility, work and employment, competitiveness, the environment, but also in sustainability, and that is very important to me personally. I would like to thank Mrs Bundesminister for your commitment today that the structures and the administration should also be saved, because it cannot be possible to put impulses there and there and on the other hand not to think in its own field! In my capacity as President of the Court of Auditors, I can say clearly: The Court of Auditors has made many demands in the field of ÖBB, because some things should only be written down and implemented. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] I think that's just about us doing things too. I think there are some things that can be further improved in the field of ÖBB, namely the form of organisation, but also the pension system and so on, in order to achieve equality with the other people in Austria in this area. I believe that in the Federal Railways Structure Act, which was presented, we now also have opportunities to actively participate. I would like to invite everyone to participate in the discussion about this Federal Railway Structure Act, because we all in this House take the view that the Austrian company ÖBB has to become a demonstration company! The Federal Minister has said that it must in no way be in our interest that we are suffering shipwreck, as we unfortunately have to experience in some measure at the AUA. So what's this about? – It’s about mobility with the future. Mrs Moser, a brochure has recently been sent to me, which very aptly formulates what it is about: “Make public transport fit for the future”. These are the following: “In Austria, more and more people are travelling by train and bus. Public transport needs are increasing. The agglomerations are growing, fuel prices are going to rise in the medium term. Measures for more public Transport is therefore of particular importance now.” [[Abg. Dr. Moser keeps a document up to date.]] I think that's not an addition, Mrs Moser. From this, I think, we have to take our political steps. Efficiency and transparency, economy and synergies, customer-friendliness and service – I think these are the answers we need in the area of mobility. Now to the project Brenner-Base Tunnel: As a Tyrolean, who has accompanied this subject for ten years, I must say quite openly, Mrs Moser: Unfortunately, the Greens have always opposed the Unterinntaltrasse, and Mr Willi has repeatedly presented the Unterinntaltrasse in recent weeks as the parade project and said that this must be relocated. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ]] Yeah, we're gonna move. In 2012 the first train is to pass through the tunnel. I would like to invite you home, because I live in an area where the train runs down. – And people hope. By giving your insurance policy You do not answer our Tyrolean population at the Unterinntaltrasse on the Brennerachse, Mrs. Moser. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Talk to Fritz Gurgiser of the “Transitforum”!]] Mr Moser, we first have to create the conditions for us to be able to expand local transport so that we can bring heavy traffic to the rails that we can boost high-performance traffic. Before we do not have this infrastructure, we will not be able to carry it out. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Excuse me, that's all unexhausted!]] – Mr Moser, although the economy is not currently overcrowding or stagnating, there is on the train God is thanks to increases. Get in touch! There was a press release on this subject just 14 days ago. Mrs. Moser, the Brenner Base Tunnel, is a project without borders between Austria, Italy and Germany. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Moser.]] And if you sign a memorandum, but you criticize all of this, I'll tell you: The transport ministers do not leave Jux and Tollery to Rome. Such a project is developed, which is a project in steps. There are different legal frameworks and also different political conditions. Don't do this so bad, but confess to it! Mrs Moser, you were against the Unterinntaltrasse, now you are against the Brenner Base Tunnel, and when it is finished, you will be the first to sit on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly!]] Quite clear: I think the 2009 budget has many good approaches. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. It's a huge challenge. It's just about ensuring competitiveness. It is about implementing climate and environmental objectives, which we have set ourselves with political decisions. It is about using innovative transport technology and increasing transport logistics. Finally, I can say a sentence on the post. I am convinced, however, that the post has not done everything right in the past. The discussions have not done us all well. At the time, there was a discussion of the country's suppliers. I personally note that the system is unique and works very well, although you have criticized it here and there. I am also convinced that, with the current postal market law, which of course still needs to be refined, we will also find ways and means of ensuring the same postal care for all people in rural and agglomerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e66151	The next speaker was Mr Klubobmann Strache. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e66173	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As Mrs Glawischnig pointed out, as she said, I can only give her the right on the point that the transport budget has also set wrong priorities. You're only right. As far as your further remarks, Mrs Glawischnig, are concerned, we already know that since your democratic election, when you, as the third President of the National Council in this House, were democratically elected by the Sovereign, you have not taken note of this outcome until today. That's sad, and you've always lived it since the last National Council election. Since actionism is taking place again today from the Greens and the media landscape has also been loaded and in front of it and has documented it again, but unfortunately today after the photos have disappeared again, I must say: This media activism, which you live in, is detrimental to this House. [[Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Brosz.]] Yeah, he's adamant! It would be equally harmful and not acceptable if other factions were to bear Bavarians, on which it reads: Your shame is called – and perhaps the name of another president. That would not be acceptable, nor would it be correct. You do not provide the High House with good service. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, Mrs Glawischnig, it's always funny: They always go from the Greens and turn against all the uniforms of this country: against the police, against the federal army. They have chosen all the uniforms of this country as opponents. But today you're sitting there uniformed. I am glad that Mr Van der Bellen does not wear this body. It seems embarrassing enough to him that you sit in the high house today with black shirts and uniform here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact is that – and I therefore also strongly point out the hetze that is taking place against the Freedom Party –: Anti-Semitism has no place in the Freedom Party, and anti-Semitism does not exist in the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Anti-Semitism will be condemned by us, as will left and right extremes, just as we condemn violence against dissidents, which we always have to experience and perceive at our events against liberals, as well as scandalous, authoritarian crime attempts, which we liberals must repeatedly experience – especially through the Greens and others in this country – as well as we must experience word twists against better knowledge and also repeatedly betrothed to us liberals. For weeks, we have experienced that this is quite the case of political competitors, such as the Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] But Mr Ariel Muzicant has also made repeated statements over the last few months, including years, with which he has behaved like a party politician. And if someone expresses himself in a party political way, if someone gives the best of party political statements, meets with party political views, up to quite scandalous statements and insults, as they have taken place and are also documented together, and if one goes here and rightly rejects these statements and insults, there is also a right to object to this, which rightly rejects verbally and turns himself to the Wehr, then there is exactly what we experience: There is a completely one-sided artificial outrage, there are just such precepts as you left them off the stack today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a conscious methodical hetze and campaign against us liberals, which we unfortunately had to experience again and again. I recall the countless insults to the Freedom Party by Mr Muzicant. I'm just going to quote a few here. Mr. Muzicant said: ‘This is a troop of right-wing extremities and neo-Nazis with which no coalition is possible.’ ==References== In May of this year, Mr Muzicant made a comparison in which he even compared FPÖ Secretary-General Herbert Kickl with the NS Minister of Propaganda Goebbels. I tell you clearly and clearly: Such a thing cannot be allowed! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I expect criticism from the official side of Austria. This is an incredible derailment. That's incredible statements. Every victim of National Socialism must feel offended by giving such inconceivable and non-sustainable disbeliefs and insults to the best. I say that you cannot put oil into the fire year after year and month for month, as was the case in recent weeks, but then you can react extremely painfully if we reject it and find a response to this criticism. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Year after year are you hot...! That's incredible!]] Here President Dr. Martin Graf is the victim, for weeks and months, because you are permanently dealing with diffamations, insults and word twists against his person. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now go here and try to twist that, make the victim the culprit. That's not the right way. If we are convict today at free events, we have to experience that left-wing extremist protesters with raised right arms stand there, we have to experience that violence against citizens is the case and people who visit our events are violently attacked and injured, if it is so that I always get murder threats when I have to experience that I have personally been attacked by 50 left demonstrators who took part in your demonstration and then attacked us that even my speaker was injured and had to be treated in the hospital, I have to say in all this: no response, no condemnation by the official representatives of Austria. [[Calls for Greens]] That's not correct. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There seems to be a silence in some areas, but elsewhere one presents himself as a self-proclaimed moral public. If FPÖ is critical of such unsustainable developments, then there is a call in this country and again the typically against better knowledge that you give the best. I sometimes have the impression that there is a consensus here in this House, which also goes in the direction that you can constantly accumulate the FPÖ to the most incompetent, that there is a consensus that you can permanently defame the FPÖ on the most incompetent and attack even on a daily basis. [[Abg. Oils: You poor lady!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Own posters...!]] And I say, Such a thing can and must never be a consensus in a democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It can't be that this takes place, also officially, under the name antifascism. It cannot be that, if the FPÖ is verbally opposed to the Wehr, then we will have to live again with the confrontation, a blasphemy from your side, which you are quite aware of, against better knowledge, than fascist hetze. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: A high-ranking representative of the Republic!]] I say quite consciously that we have always sought and documented dialogue with all political parties, with all religious communities. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Unfortunately, he has not been accepted by all. [[Abg. Oils: That's how it looks!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] I have repeatedly sought dialogue on all religious communities as party leader of the Freedom Party, which is documented in writing – also to Mr. Muzicant. This dialogue offer – because I live the dialogue and I also live democratically – which is still up-to-date from my side, has unfortunately not been accepted. I have not understood to this day why someone refuses the dialogue, but then continues to work week after week with such non-sustainable and scandalous insults in the public. Of course, this also reminds us of a campaign that we have also experienced in the past, in which the liberal lawyers had to experience such campaigning as they assumed from your side at that time. Therefore, I say clearly again – I have said it hundreds of times; it is my heart’s concern and I do not allow you to work permanently with such untruths and diffamations –: We strongly reject anti-Semitism, and we do not allow you to operate permanently with these abuses and untruths. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They of the Greens tried yesterday to make a politically motivated, very unilateral statement by the clubmen. Three political groups have also found themselves supporting this declaration, which was a very one-sided one. One can, of course, discuss the style of the statements made by musician towards Count and the Freedom Party as well as the style of the statements and the answer Dr. Grafs towards musician. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It is not about the representatives of the..., it is about the National Council President!]] Of course you can discuss the style, but then we should handle it honestly. If we feel the style is an incorrect one, we should also criticise those who have been making comments for weeks without You have spoken without criticizing this without calling on you to speak, then we should also criticize the style of these statements by Mr Muzicant. One also has to say that this has led to a reaction – a response given by Dr. Martin Graf, about which you made a very unilateral statement yesterday from the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Greens. I would have wished for objectivity in the sense of democracy. [[Abg. Oillingers: We too!]] I would also like to see one debated honestly and also deal honestly with misdevelopments – misdevelopments, which today are constantly operating very consciously against the Freedom Party. I say clearly and clearly to you that we will not remain silent, but we will show the Austrian people these hetzes. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: When it comes to hetze, you are...!]] There you are one of the main perpetrators when it comes to committing hatred and diffamation against the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e66458	The next speaker was Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, speaking at a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e66482	High house! We have always dealt with this in the context of the Rules of Procedure. I am sorry that we do not have to talk about the really good work of Mrs Minister, but rather have to have a very unpleasant discussion here. She would have deserved that we go through her work here with a much greater appreciation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, we did not only read out an illustrious renunciation yesterday when referring to the statements made by the Third President of the National Council against the representative of the Israeli Cultural Community, but we also saw a criminally relevant case. We took the view that it was also worthwhile to undergo an investigation and concluded that it would therefore only be logical if the Third President gave up his office. I am still telling you that we have also expected him to withdraw or apologise at least for the comments. Mr. Graf did not do that either; he stayed there. Now there's something else to add. He then left to the Austrian Press Agency in a statement of 27. The following statement was added in May. Graf said – I quote –: “We are not Nazis and I am not.” However, Graf stressed that the FPÖ did not feel bound by the ‘antifascist basic consensus’. ‘We do not see this as the basis of our democracy’, says Graf.” – No, no! [[Abg. Vilimsky: This is a GDR war term!]] However, I would like to add something to this statement. [[Abg. Vilimsky: This is an ideological concept of the GDR!]] – No, the basic antifascist consensus of the Second Republic began with the declaration of independence of 27th century. ==References====External links== On May 15, 1945, on the restoration of legal life in Austria and in the State Treaty of Vienna of 15 May 1945. In May 1955, which still has its unchanged validity, it enjoys recognition, and according to the case law of the Constitutional Court, the uncompromising rejection of National Socialism is a fundamental feature of the Republic that was resisted in 1945. [[Abg. May. Stefan: What does that have to do with it?]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: Please go, Cap, that's ridiculous! You don't believe that!]] This is due to the saying practice – what kind of excitement is there? – the Constitutional Court and the constitutional provisions of the State Treaty cited by me, the Declaration of Independence clearly state that the Second Republic is based on the basic antifascist consensus. We place great value on this. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's why it's so important, because we're seeing school classes here every day, visiting this High House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] There are also discussions in schools every day. We now know the incidents of Ebensee and other examples in which young people became known as perpetrators in the public. It is therefore very crucial that we represent this basic anti-fascist consensus as the basis of the Second Republic, as the basis of our educational work and as the basis for the self-conception of this House in all its clarity, also to you, towards the younger generation. Mr Graf, I therefore believe that if you do not feel bound by this basic consensus and by this self-understanding, then your relinquishing of office makes sense. If the absence of office does not take place, I believe that the next logical step is to think here of a change in the law which allows the addition of a provision in Article 30 of the Federal Constitutional Act, which states that a democratically elected President can also be elected by a two-thirds majority, if more than half of the Members are present. I believe that this is fundamentally important, which is based on the fact that, among other things, someone is also committed to the basic antifascist consensus – of course, the Constitution, and not just democratic values and so on. If that is not the case, then we believe that he should either withdraw by himself or that there should be a decision here in the House accordingly. I believe that this is a commitment to the many millions of dead, who in the period prior to 1945 have existed in the name of fascism, in the name of National Socialism, but also to the young generations that such a thing never comes again, neither creeping, nor through the back door, nor open, nor otherwise. There is a need for clarity, especially clarity in a position like that of a third president, every president, that is, the highest functions of this state – of course, these are not just the Presidents. In this respect, we are very much committed and we ask all the political groups to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e66608	Mr Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I would remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e66633	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, Dr. Cap argued that Dr. Martin Graf did not agree to the basic antifascist consensus. – Parliamentary Cap, however, has not quoted it fully. Mr. Graf has also argued that he is committed to a basic democratic consensus, and this, of course, also includes a commitment to a fundamental consensus away from fascism.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e66660	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e66681	Mr President. High house! Only as a provocateur is the strategist: It's all over this election campaign! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's all over this election campaign, which is just so provocational. [[Abg. May. Stefan: This is the Ewald too!]] Listen! Learn to listen, don't be reflective! But my dear colleague Cap, your hypocrisy number today was also of the very best! You've been literally looked at how hard it is for you to have to argue against your friends. And when the cameras are gone, you're the first to hang out right away in the café bar together with them and couleur lubrication. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it!]] At the time you missed the pedagogical opportunity from SPÖ, when the German Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer said “Youth Torities” and the President Heinz Fischer immediately granted an appointment within 14 days. [[Abg. Vilimsky: These were the Stadler photos!]] No, no, that was his trouble dealing with his own past. This could have been done in a proper educational manner. This would have had a healthy effect. But it was the SPÖ that issued the famous “antifascist persilicate. ” So don't take responsibility! It was Voves who said he wanted to work with them. It was Gabi Burgstaller who said she wanted to work with them, and it is the Josef Cap, who on every occasion ensures that nothing happens to his new friend. [[Abg. Prince: And Erich Haider!]] I forgot about Erich Haider. It's good to have remembered that. The provocation, ladies and gentlemen, the High House, has only one purpose: to cover the fact that, unfortunately, this party is completely non-contained. That is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the castration: the inability! On the part of the FPÖ, there is nothing to suggest on matters: neither to jobs – there are only the foreigners – nor to economic policy; to foreigners too, nor to health policy – even there are only foreigners as culprits. There is only one subject, otherwise there is nothing to be presented in this party. That's the problem! To cover this, it takes provocation. [[Abg. Strache: I find this embarrassing!]] But now you have exceeded the measure. [[Abg. Strache: I find this really embarrassing!]] He'll find it funny anyway. – Please, take the camera a little bit on it! [[Abg. Punishment, embarrassing, embarrassing!]] Yeah, he thinks this is funny! That's so quick! He goes with a crucifix to a rally, plays the exorcists there and then claims that it was a theological symbol. [[Abg. Strache: Do you really take yourself seriously?]] [[Abg. Strache: You are not serious at all!]] And two days later, Strache – and this sets the crown on the whole – says that he only sees the cross as a cultural clamp at all. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this to every Catholic in this country: Jesus Christ died for Heinz-Christian Stracheop of a “cultural bracket”! – This is a bit of a way of dealing with religious feelings – just as he needs it! [[Abg. That's embarrassing!]] It does not matter whether it is Christians, Catholics, Protestants, Jews or Muslims. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] That doesn't matter at all. There is only the provocation to cast the perfect inconsistency of this party. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's the problem! And this has been allowed to go through long enough, Madam President Prammer. Long enough! In the office, too. I told you then... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] Good thing that's coming. My dear friends, I want to tell you something: Jörg Haider started another party in 1986 and offered another party to the Austrian voters. Jörg Haider had nothing to do with this provocation pile she represents today from the FPÖ, but really nothing more! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Austrian voters – whether this fits to the left or not, whether it fits the green or not; and I am here, in exception, with the “standard” commentator Michael Volks of an opinion – want to have an alternative, and he needs an alternative. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The Austrian voters want a legal party. But what he doesn't want is a party that likes to see eyes and consciously go to Nazi deadlocks before loud provocation. The Austrian voters don't want that, believe me! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Austrian has not deserved to come to the prangle by such actions internationally. It was good that you responded yesterday. Now I have to ask: Do you even know what it can mean when this country becomes internationally familiar with these headlines? [[Abg. Vilimsky: Does the Ewald Stadler turn to the Greens?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] No, that's what you're dealing with! Please, what has the Austrian voters done to you that you just want to provocation because you have nothing left to offer an international campaign against Austria? What did the Austrian do to you? [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] Well, say it! Tell the Austrians what they have done to you that you are risking the martyr's role in getting to the international prangler! Say that! What has the youth of this country done to you that you believe you can play games with the youth of this country? What kind of deal with this country? [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Did Austria deserve that? Stop cracking, learn a little bit about it! It would be high time, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's a bad deal with this country! [[Abg. Dr. Rosary: The High Priest!]] The high preacher? Please, one more time! The high preacher was? [[Abg. Dr. Rosary: The High Priest!]] The “High Priest ” too! Just so we know: The FPÖ does not go down from its exaltation of religious feelings! – This is the provocation of the FPÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Only so that we can hold it again – for the protocol –: Please, hold on! That's what the voters should know. He should know that there is an alternative, but he should also know that this is the political insanity that is trying to take this country hostagely. And we will not allow that, ladies and gentlemen, the High House! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I must warn the other groups – Madam President, this warning is serious! –: We must be careful that we don't play the game of this party, because they would love to have a martyr, they would hate to go home with the martyr role. [[Abg. Dr. Rosary: This is an increase in martyrdom!]] We know this from the past. We know how he played: Strache even sent the photos to the ORF himself, in order to be able to present himself as martyrs. That's his favorite role. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Stache loves to get into the martyr's role because it saves him from having to deal with anything at all as a martyr of the movement. If Mr Van der Bellen asks Mr Strache for a few figures from the budget, he is completely white. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] If you ask him for concepts to combat unemployment, he is completely white. If you ask him for some economic data, he's totally white. But in the martyr's role, he knows it. That is why we need to take care of what we are doing here. We should consider this very carefully. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not allow a wild horde to take this country hostage. And, Josef Cap, my appeal is to you: Please ensure that there is clarity: There is clarity in dealing with provocation, which replaces political content, in dealing with a political group that believes it can be hostageed!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e67083	The next item is the speech by Mr Klubobmann. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e67104	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ariel Muzicant compared the then ÖVP Minister of the Interior Platter with Eichmann some time ago. That's the hardest thing to do! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Not all right is also Musicant's comparison of Kickl with Goebbels. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as advocacy of the Abg. Bucher.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the same if the Third President of this House, as he himself said and tried to legitimize it, tries to repay it to Mr Muzicant with the same coin. That's not the same thing. That is the most decisive thing to do! We made this very clear yesterday in a statement. I, too, made it with clear words yesterday. I'll do it again. Mr President, I now want to say: That is not possible, but it is too softly formulated – Mr President, that is the most decisive thing to reject! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr President, after yesterday's debate, I was actually expecting you to make a statement of regret about this choice of words. And I'll tell you: I'm still expecting this from you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am entirely of the opinion of Mr Stadler that, on the other hand, we should not support and promote these provocations in this way, namely to create martyrs here now and thus also to promote or favour this very game. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Eben!]] On the request to create the possibility to elect the Presidents of the National Council – apart from the fact that it would be an occasion legislation that we would certainly not participate in – it is to be said, and I am quite clear from the view of the colleague Glavischnig, whom she expressed to the APA: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] This is a protection of the minority in this House! Think back: It has not been so long since two parties had a two-thirds majority in this house! They would have been able to elect the Third President at any time by two. We cannot do that in this House, ladies and gentlemen. We can't do that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] And you can't even want it for political reasons. If there is such a choice in other countries at all, then at most if a President is guilty of criminal matters or if he is unable to exercise the office. But there is no country in which it is possible to carry out such a election for political reasons. And that is why we continue to reject it! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] One last, ladies and gentlemen, also addressed to SPÖ and Greens: Mr Graf loved you and was right in the last legislative period as a cooperation partner and chairman of a committee of inquiry which was primarily directed against us. He has just been carried by you; the same Mr. Graf, who is now sitting behind me on the Bureau. [[Calls to the Greens.]] This is also addressed to the SPÖ colleagues. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] It is the same Martin Graf as it was then. He was already in the same connection at the time, he made a few similar statements at the time – and you didn't find anything to cooperate with him in a way that I must say you carried him almost on your hands. In summary, Ladies and gentlemen: Event legislation – no! Eliminate this minority protection – no! because it would be harmful to parliamentarianism, to democracy at the end. Only because it would fit into your business right now, for the political agitation, even in this election campaign – especially addressed to the Greens – we certainly do not participate in it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e67228	The next item is Mr Van der Bellen. Fixed speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e67250	Ladies and gentlemen! These discussions are, of course, about the Freedom Party, its background, its election propaganda, its statements, but primarily about the Third President of the National Council of the Republic of Austria. That's what we're trying to do! Mr Stadler, we are used to the fact that Mr Strache is going out of here and is playing the martyr now, we are used to it, it has method at the FPÖ, to move the others through provocations, and if you say yourself in the same tone or in a similar way, then it is an intolerable diffamation, an abuse of the Freedom Party. In sport, you call something like this a glass chin: Distributing firmly, but not able to plug! It is only not quite appropriate here, because it has the FPÖ method. That's clearly the method. But this is the third President, Mr Kopf. The whole history of whether Mr Graf was or is chairman of this or that committee is a parliamentary question that follows certain uses. With this one can have his joy here or not, but the third president of the National Council represents, among other things, this Republic. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] And that's something completely different, it falls into a completely different category! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I feel compelled to read again for the participants, for our guests here in Parliament, what is the occasion, the last occasion of this call against Dr Graf. Mr Graf has said the following in the “New Free Newspaper” – this is a FPÖ newspaper – under his own name – “commentary by NR-Pres. Martin Graf’; so he also writes this article as the President of the National Council, not just as a member of the FPÖ; and so that you understand what is going on here, especially the younger people in the gallery who listen to us here, I will read to you literally what it is all about here: “The extended arm of Mr. Muzicant is the violent left mob on the streets. With his insults, the President of the Israeli Cultural Community creates a climate of political brutality, which is why many citizens already ask themselves whether he should not be called “as a patriot of antifascist left terrorism”. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Right!]] Behind the people who are ousted by musicians and consorts against “Nazis” – “Nazis” is written here under quotation marks – “conceivable anarchist bands hide, which put the population in fear and terror and destabilise democracy in our country. There is no big difference to Mr. Muzicant, who rides his attacks in the time-in-image, because he too is about limiting freedom of expression to the death of every real democracy.” – Quote. So: Dr. Muzicant creates “a climate of political brutality”, he is a heart and a soul – these are now my words – with the “violent left mob on the streets”. Mr Muzicant is clearly insinuated here: He is the “Zie Mumbaier of antifascist left terrorism” in Austria, who deals with “violent anarchist bands”. And if the last sentence has no anti-Semitic undertones, I don't know what anti-Semitism is: “There is no big difference to Mr. Muzicant” – of all these anarchist bands, the violent mob – “who rides his attacks finely dressed in the time-image.” That's not anti-Semitism? [[Abg. Oillinger: “Storm” is that!]] This does not remind you of what the “stormer ” did at that time? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Look, I can't convince you, but I would particularly like to appeal to the young people on the gallery to take this to heart and study exactly what is being tried here. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: The boys know what they have to think of the Greens! Professor, you've already resigned!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have quoted this in detail, Mr Kopf, because it is not a trivial matter here – neither on the part of Dr. Graf nor, as I should say, in the possibilities we have to remove Dr. Graf from his office as the third President of the National Council. It is true that a large majority of this House has lost all confidence in the leadership of Dr. Graf. I don't want to go into the history of why he was elected and why not. The fact is that this trust has been lost here and now – I think so. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Is this a criticism of the management?]] What can we do now? – There will certainly be sign lists in the next days and weeks, an action has already been launched on the web. I hope that many Members of this House will declare themselves here regarding their disagreement with the person of Dr Graf as the third President of this House. You might ask yourself: Why do they make such a tamtam here, why do the Members of Parliament not simply elect Mr Graf? – Well, for the simple reason, because the federal constitution and the Rules of Procedure – for good reasons; for historical reasons, I assume – do not provide this election! [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Eben!]] Once a person has been elected by a simple majority, according to the current legal situation, he cannot be elected by such a large majority of this House, unless he becomes very ill or he is sentenced for a serious crime. [[Abg. May. Stefan:... the rule of law! That's why... that's a democracy!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] – Now I assume that these possibilities are at least not available at the moment. That's an event law, you're right. I only remember the following: On a weaker occasion, as I think, we have already made such an occasion legislation – including you and the other political groups – as one, two, three years ago, I can't quite imagine, a similar question has appeared in the Federal Council, as though not the President, the President of the Federal Council, said something as unbearable as this one, Mr. Graf, but someone has made a statement on military deserators who, in fact, once said, was extremely misunderstanding, and this person would have become the next President of the Federal Council. At that time, after a week of discussion, the Rules of Procedure of the Federal Council were amended in such a way that this need to elect him as president no longer existed. [[Abg. Head: Before!]] Even in this case, one has to say, it was an occasion legislation, but we have not seen any other way to prevent that. In this case, Dr. Kopf: What is the alternative? – If Mr. Dr. Graf does not volunteer – and so far he does not make the least of the institutions involved – you will be elected for the next four and a half years until the turntable election in 2013 with Dr. Graf as the third President of this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] Find your way out – according to what you rightly said yesterday? [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: In 2013 he will become First President!]] I now simply appeal to you to think about how to for the next four and a half years, after the next provocations of the liberals, after the next article by Dr. Graf, drawn with “National Council President” – an article of this kind! - to deal with it. Can you imagine that? Can you say that to your group? [[Call the FPÖ:... stay home!]] – I very much ask you to consider this again! To Mr Stadler, concluded: Yes, of course the FPÖ wants a martyr! [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer:... has it already!]] Therein they are masters, they can! They're so poor, so terriblely poor: If they are not loved, they have almost a nervous breakdown. Of course, Dr. Graf would be giving birth to himself as martyrs, so what? Are we not man enough and women enough to just take that? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Dr. Graf is a member of this office, so simple!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e67450	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e67473	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I would like to return to the subject of transport policy and transport and infrastructure. A key task of the public sector is to provide a modern and secure transport infrastructure. It is a prerequisite for a successful economic location in Austria. The budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure shows a clear focus on investment. The funds for the development and modernisation of transport infrastructure will be significantly increased and will have a positive impact on employment, economic location and environmentally friendly mobility. Modern transport policy must be based on the social mobility needs of people, on the transport needs of the economy and on the objectives of environmental protection. I think it is good that it is an objective to ensure mobility as sustainable as possible, so rail and waterway must be forced. I also think it is good that the budget provides for a significant increase in investment in the rail sector. In the new framework/construction period, an annual average of €2.3 billion will be invested in the rails; this is an increase of €528 million compared to the last framework period. Priority will be given to measures in the framework plan, which aim primarily at improving the inventory network and thus achieves rapid benefit for the customer, but also conditions for operational rationalisation at the ÖBB. The benefit for railway customers is quite clear: The capacity supply for passenger and freight transport will be increased, and therefore a shift from road to rail will be possible, there will be significantly shorter travel times in passenger transport, urgently necessary park-and-ride facilities will be created, and the conversion and new construction to and from user-friendly railway stations with a modern infrastructure will take place. In the context of the economic package, there will also be an increase in payment-effective investments in the ÖBB by around €700 million for the coming years. Projects will be preferred, new projects will be added to the framework and investments in the inventory network will be made. Half of this volume is used for small-scale projects, such as urgently needed station renovations, especially accessibility, thermal rehabilitation, the elimination of dangerous railway crossings and improvements in the existing network. As a Member of the Federal State of Salzburg and a constituency in which unemployment has exploded in recent months – in the Pinzgau there was even more than a doubling of unemployment – I call for the rapid realization of these decided investments in transport infrastructure in favour of a boosting of the regional economy and a reduction in the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e67519	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e67541	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about transport policy and the budget today, I think there is an issue that we cannot ignore, which interests all of us, namely the future of Austrian airlines. We had a subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which has tried for months to find out where the responsibilities lie. . However, this committee cannot be reported here because confidentiality prevails. It is only a pity that we did not succeed in winning the Minister of Finance, Wilhelm Molterer, as an information person for this committee at the time, because I think it would have been very interesting for us to know how the political contexts were really at that time, at that time. Of course, one has always failed and knows what one should have done differently, but such a committee has the task of identifying past mistakes and learning from them for the future. None of us are in favour of making mistakes in a responsible position, but we would like to take advantage of the opportunity to learn from mistakes that have happened in the past. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The ÖIAG – and thus the taxpayer – loses an amount of € 760 million in this year alone at the AUA. 760 million €, ladies and gentlemen! – Federal Minister Berlakovich said a few days ago about how many jobs are created by the thermal rehabilitation package, that we create about 7 000 jobs in Austria with these € 100 million. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, if we lose € 760 million this year alone at the AUA, what everything we could have done with it! That is why we must make every effort to avoid in the future the mistakes which must also be sought in politics and, above all, in politics. [[Call the SPÖ:... Austrian Airlines!]] It was also a mistake to send Mr. Ötsch a discharge. I don't think it was wise to send someone who also bears a high degree of responsibility for the decline of the company, then with a reward, and then “reward” the other employees of the company with wage cuts. – This is certainly not the right way, ladies and gentlemen! We had a suboptimal route network, we had a mixed fleet policy, which is very, very expensive, and we did not make the decision to privatise, in particular, when we could have achieved a profit with this company. Now I know we are all very patriotic as Austrian politicians, when we say we want to keep the red and white-red tail fin. [[Abg. Shopf: Sell everything!]] We want that too, and I very much hope and I very much wish that the... – Please? [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Schopf]] [[Abg. You sold everything!]] – Well, the BAWAG didn’t sell us! I think you were. [[Abg. Shopf: Austria Tobacco!]] – The BAWAG, yes, the “consumer” was not us either, that was her too. The Post? – Wait, the post... – So I think the SPÖ is well advised to go in very, very modestly here and think about what damage you have done in this Republic of Austria: a great damage, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: That's where we need the Hofer to do it!]] Yes, sure – or the “Aldi”! The “Hofer ” or the“ Aldi, ” depending on, you can choose it! They have taken over the role of the “consumer” you have sent to the pleasure, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the privatization of the AUA at a good time would have brought no question, and all of us would have been very careful because the SPÖ, even Matzenetter at the time, cried out. That's not in question at all!, he screamed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier.]] At that time we would have gotten money for the AUA. And what do we have now? – 500 million € we have to pay! Bravo, this is a “smart” policy! Was Mr. Matzenetter really an expert? – I am glad that he is no longer Secretary of State. Now we have a mill, ladies and gentlemen: No one wants an AUA's plea, of course, because it's about the many, many employees at AUA, it's about the many employees at Vienna Airport. The sale must therefore succeed, even if we have to pay a little bit for this sale, because the alternative would be to send the company into the pleite, and that would not only endanger jobs to an even greater extent, but it would also cost more than now the AUA to pass on this task to Lufthansa. That is, we all have to keep the thumbs that this “sale” – under quotation marks – succeeds in Lufthansa. I gained an excellent impression from the new management of the AUA. I believe that these two rulers will also ensure that not too many jobs are lost at the AUA. One thing I would like to stress, namely, the role of Vienna Airport in this whole mess: Over many years, the airport of Vienna has considered AUA to be a milk cow and has also really been milking intensively. However, the AUA was then starved by a fee that was immeasurable, and with that the airport Vienna also bears a joint debt to this debacle. If we can read in the last few days what happens at the "skylink", that instead of an amount of €400 million – it was planned to be less than €300 million first, but in the second phase it was €400 million – this "skylink" will now cost € 1 billion – € 1 billion instead of € 400 million! – and if you have to take further note that the responsible managers are not aware of any guilt – Mr. Kaufmann, and there is no way to say no to est omen, no guilt is conscious – then I would like to say to you: [[Call the SPÖ:Chairman!]] But you also need to know that there, at the Vienna airport, the project management is not, as is usual everywhere – with every chicken stable that is built – being handed over to an overall project management, no, the gentlemen of the board have decided to monitor the individual project phases themselves, so people who have no idea of the construction, let alone of large construction projects! This explains that it is not €400 million, but € 900 million. That is why I urge the Supervisory Board to say goodbye to Mr Kaufmann, but not with a “golden handshake”, but withhold its claims until the responsibilities at Vienna airport are actually clarified.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e67673	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e67694	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! I don't know how you are, Mrs. Minister, but I have to ask: Has the agenda been changed? Or are we in the wrong room? Then: It says to me: Normal debate: Transport, innovation and technology. I believe that we should talk about this, and not because we are currently in elections – the ÖH elections are ending, even the EU elections are going to be on the next Sunday – over others. Yes, since the parties of the left and right sides of this House are of course happy to use as a stage, as an arena, in order not to entertain us here, but to deal with provocations and mutual insults. However, we should rather inform ourselves about content, discuss content – and we stand for it! [[Green call for tender]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Treasure]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We're making a serious policy, we're dealing with people's problems, and we should talk about it today. [[Abg. May. Honey: You look away! How long have you been looking away?]] I can also say that we have elections now, of course. This will end in a few days, but the next elections will be back in the house: We choose in autumn in Vorarlberg, in Upper Austria, Vienna is on, the Styria is on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] And if that is the future of our House that we are holding a election campaign here, then good night, parliamentarianism! Mrs. Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... no first speech!]] ‘Investment in infrastructure is of significant overall economic importance. They have a positive impact on economic growth, economic location and employment.” – These rates are originally not mys, but I quote here from a study by the Wifo that investigated the effects of investments in infrastructure. Especially now, at a time of economic downturn, these measures are of particular importance. They create and secure 50,000 jobs and give workers income and thus security for their families. The budget for the Ministry of Infrastructure is actually very positive in view of the very difficult conditions. After all, there is additional money in the coming years, which can now be used with caution – as well as in the area of public passenger transport. Only recently did the VCÖ once again note that the traffic behaviour of people is changing: Due to rising fuel prices, but also because of growing conurbation centres, a well-developed network of public transport is becoming increasingly necessary, not only in cities. – This federal government responds to these changes and invests heavily in the infrastructure! Let us take a look at the situation in my federal state of Tyrol: About €55 million flow into the rail business package in Tyrol alone. Here in my constituency the stations in Fieberbrunn, Kitzbühel and Brixlegg are rebuilt. Pendlers can look forward to a modern train station network, and this incentive will again lead to more of their car being left standing. The positive effects of investment in infrastructure on economic growth, economic location and employment are undisputed. The same applies, of course, to the Austria's largest construction project for the next few years, the Brenner Base Tunnel, which is unfortunately still being questioned by some here in the house. But what are the alternatives, ladies and gentlemen? – I haven't heard much about the opposition yet. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is that the road cannot cope with transit traffic in the long run. We all agree on this, and that is what the Court of Auditors says in an audit report. With the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding. We have come a long way closer to the implementation of transport policy conditions in May. Here I understand the attitude of my colleagues on the part of the FPÖ and also the Greens – especially the Greens! – Not at all: This is a forward-looking, sensible transport policy investment, and here I honestly wonder why the liberals and above all the Greens, who see themselves as a former or self-appointed eco-party, are reluctant – “former” one must say now, for the president of the Greens wanted to say “a sentence on the transport budget”. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... how to finance this thing!]] – So it is obvious that more is not included in the Greens' traffic; I will say that to our voters in Tyrol. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] You may also be able to delete the word “green” from your party name and instead use “t-shirt”: They're a "t-shirt party", as we've seen today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... in Upper Austria!]] For years you were required to move the transit from the road to the railway. Now we are just ahead of the realization of this project, and you are against it again. – You will thus live up to your reputation, your image as a no-sager party. [[Call the ÖVP: Nosager party!]] In this context, Mrs Bures, I should like to ask for the rapid construction of the second section of the sub-inntal trasse. This is to have been done before the completion of the Brenner base tunnel. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have no idea of financing!]] In summary, it should be noted that: The transport budget for the next few years is a welcome one, and the planned infrastructure projects can be addressed. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is a...!]] My appeal, Mrs. Minister: Go on this path and don't let yourself get hurt!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e67863	Next item is the report by Mr Tadler. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e67906	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! That the Austrian Bundesbahnen must save, we probably agree on this. - Have everyone calmed down? On the subject of ÖBB and its funding, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has already been said – with interruptions – today. The ÖBB continues to write deep-red figures, Mrs. Minister. In a judicial comparison, the ex-ÖBB chief Martin Huber, after demanding €800 000, was almost rejected by his ex-employer. I wonder, Who is such contracts with such top managers? This year and next year, the economic package will provide additional €700 million – and this is a pleasure – to the infrastructure of the railways. This appropriation is intended to cover part of the modernisation of railway stations, new construction The Wiener Westbahnhof and the new building of the Vienna Central Station. But I wonder: What projects are these funds really going on? Is it really targeting to attack two prestige objects and to make summaries of money available for them? What is the benefit of a main station for Vienna, where routes to the east and south are served by a new central station in the immediate vicinity? Regionally, ladies and gentlemen, the narrow railways and the small railways are starved out and the responsibility is shifted to the countries. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A good example of moving to the countries is our local Pinzgau railway. Hearted citizens, mayors have been very active in maintaining this very important railway for regional transport. Finally, the Land of Salzburg, together with Salzburg AG and all those involved, has found an acceptable solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] However, how should we proceed with passenger and regional transport, ladies and gentlemen? – For the next two years, the budget has again been reduced, allowing the Federal Government to fall only on the so-called prestigious projects and leaving the population that really needs regional transport in the rain. Everyone is always talking about CO2 emissions, about high climate protection, but when it comes to the rural population, Mrs Minister, it is without regional transport. – So there is a real need for action, Mrs Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e67969	The next item is the speech by Mr Keck. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e67990	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Minister! Investing, researching and saving is the title of the budget available to the Ministry of Infrastructure in the next two years. In times of a global economic crisis, this is certainly not an easy task, because the Ministry of Infrastructure is particularly important – I would even describe it as a key position. It is therefore absolutely right that our Minister Doris Buresihren has focused on investment. This means that we can provide employment directly and do something directly for our economic location. I would therefore like to mention positively the massive expansion of infrastructure investment. In the period 2009 to 2014, €3.7 billion – and that is more than 50 billion schilling in old currency – will be invested in the areas of road and rail. But there is not going to be, and this is particularly important, simply stuffed in money, but we also intervene in this direction. The figures in detail show the following: In this difficult time, €610 million more will be invested per year. 85 percent of these go to the rail, and 15 percent are spent on the road. Based on the total, this means that €2.3 billion per year, around two thirds, is used for public transport and €1.4 billion is available for the road. This additional effort, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, greatly benefits from the expansion of environmentally friendly mobility. This is also evident in the area of local transport – since the federal funds were frozen from 1999 to 2007. & Today only Mr Bures was able to reach an increase of €50 million per year to €715 million per year. Ladies and gentlemen, as Linzers, I see how important investment is in this area. With Solar City, we have a completely new, direction-setting district, which urgently needs to be connected to the railway network in order to enable other investments, such as settlement development or connection to the tram network. But we also urgently need a well-functioning connection for our pendlers from the Mühlviertel. With the Regio-Liner, which was presented by the Federal Chancellor together with our transport representative Erich Haider, we are on the right track in the truest sense of the word. We relieve the environment of these projects, free our people from congestion and noise, and also give our federal state the opportunity to benefit from the around 50,000 jobs created in total by such job-intensive projects. Ladies and gentlemen, from the side of the ministry the tasks were done well. I thank you for this good budget under such difficult circumstances and can only say: Mrs Bures, you have done your thing very well, yes, excellent! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68055	As next speaker, Mrs Dr. Lightenecker. Fixed speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68076	Dr. Graf, with your statements you are damaging the climate in this country, so you are damaging the international reputation of Austria, and you are thus also damaging the economic and research location Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, everyone emphasizes the topic of “Investment, Research and Savings”. In the field of innovation and research, one can say: Austria is not so bad in the international comparison. But we are not among the leaders of innovation in Europe, and that is clear. We certainly don't belong! This can also be determined by numbers such as patent applications. Let's take a look at this: Small European countries like Sweden, Switzerland, the Netherlands are far ahead of us – far ahead of us! And in order not to lose the connection, much more must be invested than is planned at the moment. Mrs Minister, looking at the budget of your Ministry of Research and Innovation and the increases in the Financial Framework from 2009 to 2013, it is noted that €11 million is planned for this period. And that's not only lean, but it's ridiculously little for the action we have. The increase from last year to this year with 3.4 percent is already a poor matter. And if you see the equipment of one of the most important funding agencies in Austria, namely the FFG, with increases of more than 3 percent and not even 2% from 2009 to 2010, you have to say that is clearly too little for the challenge in the current crisis. It should be noted that the current budget has increased predictability and planning; Five-year budgets are simply an advantage. They always stick to the flags and write clearly, and the government also emphasizes again and again: The research rate of 3 percent will be reached! They stick to this goal. – Mrs Minister, I say to you: These 3 percent cannot be achieved at the best of will, because only – and we already see this from the data and statistics of Statistics Austria – companies will invest much less. After all, almost 50 percent of research expenditure from the enterprise sector comes – almost 50 percent! – and if there are burglaries, it is difficult to reach the 3 percent. A little more about transparency, the clarity of the budgets and how calculations are achieved in terms of achieving the 3 per cent target – there is a trick that is applied here, namely by the Minister of Finance, the research premium, the research allowance –: This is so high that the deception prevails that the 3 percent are really accessible. However, you know that this will not happen. But, frankly, just in these difficult times, honesty as far as this is concerned must be on the table, because we need action! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] Ms Bures, you presented the evaluation of the Austrian innovation system with Professor Aiginger of the Economic Research Institute last week. It was analysed how it looks in the research landscape. This evaluation shows a very concrete demand and also a criticism, namely that we are not among the front runners, that is, not among the top riders, but rather to pursue an imitation strategy. And this is something by which we, and we know, land in the far off; quite clearly in the distance and not in the front. Among other things, it is also criticized that the research structure in Austria is far too broad, far too low, that there is a massive academic deficit, especially in the natural sciences, that there is a lack of focus on the areas of excellence and that the research transfer from the scientific institutions, from universities to companies is very bad. Of the scientists who have worked on this system evaluation, it is also noted quite clearly that there is a need for increased state efforts in times of crisis. And I quote: They also maintain that everything – in brackets: more than before – needs to be done to increase research expenditure. In view of the presentation of the evaluation last week, Mrs Minister, it is not possible to go over to the agenda and pretend that there is no need for any additional action. In this respect, there is a clear challenge to make a priority focus here, precisely because investment is to be made and not in any great road infrastructure projects that are ultimately also related to past developments. Modern mobility – you mentioned it today – is a central point. However, if you only emphasize the area of transport infrastructure or mobility and research investment in the automotive sector, I think you have to resell the horse, because there are clear questions regarding the future orientation of research priorities. These are, of course, the major issues such as demographic development, climate protection and security of energy supply. The experts in Austria agree that this must be the focus – and we miss it. It is not enough that we have enough budget, but we also need a strategy. We need a clear research strategy and we need to work on it. The Research and Technology Council has started with this, but now, Mrs Minister, we are facing the challenge of holding the debate on the priorities of the next ten years broad and public, because only a broad discussion and broad-based results will be fruitful and will bring in the next ten years exactly the results that we need so urgently. The title of the system evaluation report was “The course for tomorrow is set today. For a radical new science, technology and innovation policy in Austria”. – Mrs Minister, this is a major challenge not only to you, but, as I believe, to the whole of Parliament, because research strategies belong to Parliament, discussed here and also decided. Mrs Bures, for the long way to create a good research strategy, I wish you a lot of courage, a long breath and a lot of endurance.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68130	In the light of the stenographic protocol, I give for the repeated accusations of the “anti-Semitic rides” in the direction of the Third President Dr. Martin Graf of Mrs. Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczeke's edict. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: But it took a long time!]] The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68179	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! With this budget, we know what we are at. I mean, we owe citizens the fact that they know what they are about. This budget ensures that you know exactly when where how much is invested, when and in which time frame buildings are renovated, railway stations are renovated and various road or rail areas are newly built. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Heinzl.]] This transport budget, as well as the budgets of the other sectors, is coordinated and binding for several years. Especially in the area of rail and road construction, especially in such large projects, it is important not only to be able to plan for the long term, but also to realize, because the projects simply need their time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] I should like to congratulate you, Mrs Federal Minister, on the fact that you have managed this budget, of course also from the point of view of the current difficult situation, because this budget will be a supporting pillar for securing our economic location in Austria – I am deeply convinced – and will bring many positive effects to employment from Lake Constance to Lake Neusied. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] - That too is your merit. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been mentioned several times today that this budget is based on objectives and strategies: a multiannual investment programme in rail and road, the transport safety programme, the expansion of the Danube – a very important point to be overcome – and, above all, the promotion of public passenger transport, which is very dear to me. Why? – Because public transport must function from the point of view of climate policy and, above all, the maintenance and protection of the quality of life of families on the ground. We probably agree when I say we need a powerful infrastructure. This is the only way to create the conditions for dealing with traffic. Only with a powerful infrastructure will we secure Austria's economic location! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Heinzl.]] Only with an expanded transport infrastructure will we bring those businesses to the places and communities that need them to manage municipal taxes in order to give the municipalities the opportunity to benefit from the economic location. High house! According to the new framework plan, construction programme period 2009/2010, an annual average of €3.7 billion has already been invested. And I am very proud that a total of €4.2 billion will also be invested in my federal state of Lower Austria by 2014. €2.7 billion will be invested in the rail sector – we see the weighting – and €1.5 billion in the road construction sector. For me, I am pleased that the economic package is already taking hold – we have adopted it here. In addition to many other places in Lower Austria and in other federal states, it already works in my district, in the district of Korneuburg. The first preparatory work for the railway station renovation in Korneuburg and Stockerau is already taking place. In this small region there is an investment volume of 15.5 million €. We need these regional employment impulses, which will be given through this transport budget – and they will be strengthened. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In addition to the employment effect, these increased investment measures – I assume, ladies and gentlemen – will make public transport even more attractive by modernising railway stations. It is absolutely necessary to have really modern stations and connections. And I am deeply convinced that citizens will use passenger transport with appropriate quality. However, it is not only about regional links, it is also about the European transport flows, which must be networked so as to actually connect and connect this Europe by transport. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] And this is now very successful through the TEN projects. This must be realized. Dear Mrs Federal Minister, for example Paris–Vienna–Bratislava: On the one hand, we are pleased that the four-track extension of the West Railway is taking place, on the other hand, the railway line between Vienna and Bratislava, the so-called East Railway, is not electrified, only single-tracked and not in time, whether we are talking about freight transport or passenger transport, and there is a need for rapid modernisation here. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Back in time!]] I would like to ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to include this East Railway project in the framework plan by 2014, so that this can be achieved. In this sense, I believe that this transport budget is a considerable and successful one in the sense of the economy and the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68268	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Königshofer. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68291	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! One of my previous speakers, Mrs Moser, has said a lot about Austrian transport policy. I can only underline that. However, Mrs Colleague, I should also like to note that the green outfit you used to wear was better than the black shirt you've slipped into. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I, the Secretary of State, have seen you in the house, but at the moment not on the government bank, I would like to inform you of a matter which is in today’s daily newspaper “The Press” and which actually concerns finances. I'm allowed to quote: ‘8.5 billion. for the First Bank?’ It also says: "At the end of March 2009, the federal government set the banks exactly 16.817 billion. Euro in liability for bonds and other issues. According to Pröll, it accounts for 8.5 billion. Euro to the First Bank.” In addition, however, it is written: ‘The First Bank cannot understand this information. ,We can get the 8.5 billion. Don't explain Euro. We have a framework agreement with the State for 6 billion. Euro hit’...’ – Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lack of €2.5 billion somewhere! Every small bank employee who has a cash difference of 50 cents on the evening of a working day must search for hours to find and compensate for this difference. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Minister of Finance lacks 35 000 million schilling, and no one can now say that the first has got it, has it referred to it, the money is still on accounts of the state or where it has remained. I just want to tell you about that. And now on the subject of traffic. “Transport brings life,” said the legendary Tyrolean head of state Eduard Wallnöfer once, but if the transport in Austria still has a future after such a transport policy, I would like to leave that behind. I would like to deal with the three major transport companies in this Republic, in short with the Austrian Airlines, the Austrian Federal Railways and the ASFINAG. Ladies and gentlemen, as it is about the AUA, you all know that. We can only hope that the AUA still has so much liquidity to survive until it is taken over by Lufthansa. But many professionals, including those from government, are also doubting this. It is in the “Kurier” – I quote – yesterday: “With the presumption that the Commission’s requirements will be too high and that Lufthansa is not on board at AUA, Lauda is not alone. Austrian top politicians, who do not want to be mentioned, also fear that the deal does not come about and are already talking about a ‘national disaster’.” – So many times to the Austrian Airlines. And now to the “rail-Airlines”, to the Austrian Bundesbahnen. I made the effort and went to the annual press conference this year to present the report and looked at it more closely. The Austrian Federal Railways write first in their entrance statement: Economic crisis hits the ÖBB. It also says: Strong losses in freight and passenger transport in the fourth quarter – by the way even stronger now in the first quarter –, provisions for past financial transactions, resulting in a breakdown in the business result and in the operating result. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Railways have reported a loss of €966 million in 2008 and a total of €1.7 billion in the case of subsidies from the Federal Government. This huge loss is also due to huge speculation transactions that will no longer occur next year or this year, but due to the deterioration of the operating result, a similar loss will be reported. Ladies and gentlemen, and there these Austrian Federal Railways are still going here and let the Supervisory Board decide that, on the one hand, 270 top employees of 42 000 4 million € get bonuses, while at the same time the rates at the Bundesbahnen from 1. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen, this is a top-class sourry! You have to say that politically once. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mismanagements are rewarded with credits – and the tariffs for the transportation of people are increased! That's not how it's done! Finally, I can say to the Bundesbahnen: An unpleasant thing that meets the Austrian economy is that the ÖBB company serves Romanian trucks. A total of 150 pieces she sends to the street to compete with the local eaters. That too is unbearable! Mrs Bures, I would ask you to take a position on this matter and stop it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, a few words on the ASFINAG. The ASFINAG is also running an investment program on devils coming out, and this is taking into account new debts and new loans. I'm allowed to sum up: These three companies – the Austrian Airlines, the Austrian Bundesbahnen and the ASFINAG – are the three Achilles ferns of Austrian transport policy. You usually only have two legs, but in this case three Achilles are marked. If this goes on, Mrs Minister, you know that, then the Austrian Airlines will fly to the wall, the Austrian Federal Railways will drive to the wall, and the ASFINAG will fall from those noise protection walls that it unnecessarily builds today. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we cannot give our support to a transport policy based on these companies. And I ask you to understand that.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68430	Ladies and gentlemen! I announce that in connection with the written statements of the Third President of the National Council Dr. Martin Graf on the President of the Israeli Cultural Community, of 21 March, I am in favour of this House. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The next item is Mr Plessl's speech with a 3-minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68456	Madam President. Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The last flood of March in April 2006 caused damage of about €72 million, damages to private property, to municipal property, to public transport facilities. This disaster in 2006 showed the low quality, the problem areas and the limits of the approximately 57 km long March dam, built between 1936 and 1964. All politicians have therefore opted for a complete renovation with projected costs of approximately € 120 million. In view of the unclear legal situation regarding the construction and maintenance of flood protection buildings, the Court of Auditors was instructed to give an overview of the jurisdiction. The result was the determination of the competence of the existing water associations Marchegg–Zwerndorf and Anger–Bernhardsthal. As a result, an agreement was reached between the State of Lower Austria and the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology to merge the two previously mentioned water associations and to instruct the via donau - Austrian waterways-GesmbH to set up and maintain, as well as to provide about necessary basic proceeds. A total of € 21 million and € 19 million were budgeted by our committed and prudent infrastructure minister Doris Bures for the renovation of the dam on March in 2009. This provision will be supplemented by the disaster fund, which can be used to cover first damage to private property, second damage to the assets of local authorities, thirdly, procurement of firearms and fourthly prevention measures. In 2009 and 2010, a budget of 58.6 million € is estimated. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude briefly on the most important objectives of this project. First of all, it is very important that the improvement of flood protection is ensured, HG 100 + 70, that is to say a hundred-year flood plus 70 percent safety; second, the creation of planning bases for future trilateral flood management in the CENTROP region, here is an accreditation between Austria, Slovakia and the Czech Republic very important; and third, of course, the optimization of operation management of flood protection on March, that is, joint exercises. I would like to thank Mrs Bures very much for having managed to make the necessary money available in budgetaryly difficult times for precautionary measures, especially for Marchdamm rehabilitation. Thank you, Mrs. Minister, for this, you are creating security for the region of Gänserndorf.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68514	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann with 4 minutes of desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68536	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Allow me to discuss a sub-section of the chapter, in particular expenditure on research and development with a view to non-compliance with the 3-percent budget path which is certainly missing in the budget. I should like to point out that the Minister of Finance has still said in his budget speech that there will be an increase of 40 percent for science and research in the comparative period up to 2013 and the five years earlier. And Pröll also said that with the €2.56 billion for 2009 and € 2.78 billion for 2010, the research and development rate of 3 percent can be achieved – he said. It will clearly be missed, and I can justify it as follows. The economy – which was already implemented yesterday – will be able to provide 5 percent less resources. This corresponds approximately to a sum of just under €200 million, which will be missing, €200 million needed to make Austria future fit, fit for research and to bring it forward in terms of development. If you are looking for comparisons from neighbouring countries because, for example, Mr Bartenstein said yesterday, how great is Germany and that Austria would actually be in front of Germany, please look at Baden-Württemberg, Bavaria and Switzerland. They still spend much more on research and development than Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This means that while a 3 percent research and development rate can be sought – and one wants to do what is worth supporting – it will be missed. And this is very unfortunate because the two major funds, the FWF and also the FFG, could take the appropriate measures and be instruments to intervene there. Every euro that comes directly to the economy will also have a certain leverage effect, and it can actually be invested a lot in the future, in jobs, in the location of Austria, in the business location and also in new markets and new products, in order to make us more competitive at all. I can remind you that the FWF still had €176 million in 2008, in 2009 it's only €160 million, i.e. a minus of more than 10 percent. The FFG has a very light plus of 3 percent, which means an increase to € 209.6 million and is actually far too little. That is why we propose from the BZÖ that we expand the announcements of the Minister of Finance on the one hand and the Federal Chancellor on the other, to make Austria fit, to expand, to bring forward, to invest here, to do something to help. We therefore invite you, in general, to define the 3 percent quota by law and to take appropriate measures and, secondly, to donate the two funds, the FWF and the FFG with about 10 percent respectively. That would be – under quotations – “only” € 39 million that we could afford and should set clear impulses. I therefore make the following two requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] Second request: Resolution Deputies Widmann, Dr. Strutz, Ing. Lugar, ladies and gentlemen, on an increase in the budget for the FWF and the FFG The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to submit a draft law to the National Council as soon as possible, ensuring that the FWF and the FFG are actually available 10% more than in 2008.” I'm looking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68638	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68714	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl with 4 minutes of desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68736	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Very briefly to the remarks made by my predecessor. They were there when our Federal Minister, Hahn, carried out why the budget of the FWF in absolute terms is actually a little lower than in the previous year, although the federal share was so high. The funds from the National Bank, the funds of the National Foundation are falling so seriously that, despite this massive increase in federal and tax funds, only a nearly equal contribution could be made. However, this will also help to increase the quality of the FWF’s awards even further. Very many additional small projects have been submitted, unfortunately fewer major projects, which also suggests – as you have correctly recognized – that the industry currently has less money available to research. We are all working on the fact that the economy is recovering so quickly that hopefully this situation will change again next year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also very glad that FFG and FWF are excellently taught. In recent years, both major research funding funds have been on a rapid growth rate. And these two funds are, at least, the largest and most important lever for research, science, development and innovation that we have in this country. And I'm glad that an outcome could be achieved here too. We agree that we would still like to make much more money available for this. Apart from what we make available for investments in the transport sector, but above all for investment in research, there are measures to make investments without the federal government having to take money directly and directly. And I think it is in a situation like the present that it is our supreme duty to take all these measures now. One of these we will immediately start with an initiative proposal that will be submitted tomorrow. We need more investment in expanding high-performance broadband. Some companies are in a position to do so, and they are also in a position to do so. However, we urgently need to change the environment in such a way that they can make it efficient. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You're right! That's right!]] That is why, in cooperation with BMVIT, we have jointly - Mr Gartlehner and I - designed a change of law of the TKG, according to which it will be possible in the future to use empty pipes for the installation of, for example, fiber optic cables, all empty pipes in this country, in order to be able to use cables that are already located somewhere, cable shafts that already exist in the future for broadband, fixed-line broadband. This will mean that investments in this area can be much faster, much more cost-effective and that there are massive reliefs and accelerations in broadband development. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are aware that this is not enough and that it does not bring us broadband to the last corner of the country. We have therefore spoken with Mrs Bures, and I am very grateful that she sees it that way. We want to give digital dividends, i.e. radio frequencies, which are free by the fact that we broadcast television digitally and no longer analogueally, earlier than at the latest possible time that the European Commission has set in 2015. These radio frequencies represent one of the last great folk power we still have. [[Abg. The cable cars!]] And we will have to make it possible as soon as possible to make these frequencies, such as Switzerland and Germany, available to mobile broadband, by removing numerous remaining detailed problems. This means that our companies will quickly be able to provide a mobile, much wider Internet broadband connection than today very cost-effective to the extreme corners of Austria. Mrs Bures will address the necessary political questions more quickly than is the case in other countries, even if we are a little slower than Germany and Switzerland, for example. [[Abg. The cable cars!]] To the cable cars, Mrs. Federal Minister – Mr. Hörl doesn't leave me alone, and he's right! –: Massive investments in cable car expansions are currently on ice because the department in your ministry, which really works very well, has come to the limits of working ability. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] There is an urgent need for one or two additional lawyers, because the requests are on the rise, and we could send €400 million in investment in a very short time. We support You, Mrs Federal Minister, perhaps from other Ministries, are a lawyer! I've heard you haven't been so burdened in the Department of Defense. Maybe we can do that. I hope that's very much in your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68825	Now comes Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68846	High house! Today I will deal with Mr Martin Huber of the ÖBB, an ÖVP-like candidate for the leadership at the time. [[Call the ÖVP – towards the Abg. Gerhard Huber –:There over there]] Mr. Martin Huber left a little more than €600 million a few years ago. I asked myself: How can it be left with €600 million if the train is supposed to be so deficient? I've been looking at this. These €600 million remain because they sold locomotives, wagons and freight stations with dubious cross-board leasing shops. That is to say, the ÖBB with Mr Martin Huber, inspired by ÖVP, sold the substance of the ÖBB abroad and made a little more than €600 million good. [[Abg. Head: He wasn't the only one!]] Then it was about the following. Mr. Martin Huber thought: How can we best install these 600 million €? – What idea did Mr. Huber come up with? – A normal person would say: If that should be relatively safe for ten years, we put the money on a savings book. At the time, you would have received about 5 percent interest on a savings book. This would have been a return of €370 million for ten years. This would have made a normal citizen with a house mind. No, Mr. Martin Huber went to the Deutsche Bank, not because of a savings book, no, he completed a credit default swap, i.e. a credit default insurance that was so sophisticated that she needed 1,000 pages of contract work, and had a real interest rate of 0.5 percent. That means the return on ten years was € 30 million instead of € 370 million. My question is: Who's doing such a crazy business? [[Call:The Huber]] Who accepts 0.5 percent real interest rate with a 100% default risk? Who's doing that? I'll leave that in the room once. It could be believed that the Lord Huber simply has an unhappy hand, that he understands as much of allegations as an anatholic goat herd. But don't! Mr. Huber is a very strange guy! In 2005 he bought a property via his wife, which he then slyly reselled with a profit of over €2 million to a company that carried out important orders for the ÖBB. He earned exactly €2.2 million. So, Mr. Huber can do it! He already knows how it is, but unfortunately only when it comes to his own profit. That's where Mr. Huber can do it. As regards these €600 million: The motivation to make these shops was therefore so high because he had received 400 000 € commission from the Deutsche Bank in view. That was the motivation of Martin Huber. If there is someone with the ÖBB who does such actions, invading such foolish business, I wonder: What would someone do who's got someone who's got that big money on the company? There are 600 million € in the room or more that need to be written off. What would you do with someone like that? I mean, they'd send him to the desert, as they said, in the past. The only claim such a person would have would be the right to an exclusive interview with the prosecutor – from my point of view! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser:... already at the prosecutor!]] But no, the government is going to come and make a comparison with this gentleman, throwing him hundreds of thousands of euros and satisfying 90 percent of his demands. You have to imagine that! My opinion: Whoever does such a thing can only have a bad conscience! I don't see another possibility here. These processes are particularly tragic when you know that the ÖBB will cut down massive employees, that the ÖBB will run a massive savings course and have also increased prices. In other words, this loss, which Mr Huber has caused, for which Mr Huber has also been paid, is now allowed to “bleach” the railways and the staff are put on the road. That's how your policy looks! I'm sure we're not going to have to do that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, this is a blow to the face of all those who have worked hard for their lives, earned little money and were always righteous. For all those, this is a blow to the face. I guarantee you that at the next election we will make this public, that the people will drive Schindluder! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68935	Next speaker: Mr Hell. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e68956	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Public transport is ruined much faster than it was made. This shows the examples given to private individuals after the liberalisation and transfer of public rail infrastructure in European countries as well as in other areas of the world. Therefore, we should make a confession that we are also in public service for public passenger transport. To build a railway line, it takes many years, and it has to prove itself for decades. Transport policy is therefore also a long-term policy. From 2000 to 2006 – under Black-Orange/Blue – the Ministry of Transport was a political house without transport policy ambitions and visions. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why? Where were you?]] This situation has only improved since Werner Faymann and Doris Buresdiese took over the role of a transport company. [[Abg. Scheibner:... only dreamed! You've read that somewhere! In the section paper!]] – No, I have experienced that from my own experience! Public passenger transport and remote transport is only possible with appropriate infrastructure. Therefore, I do not understand the criticism either when it comes to making financial resources available for investments in new construction lines and route attractions. These investments are the prerequisites for a modern, powerful rail and for efficient and competitive rail. Already years ago, ÖBB decided to equip the high-level network in Austria with a new train safety system, the ETCS. This European Train Control System eliminates barriers to international rail transport and increases the safety and efficiency of the trains. Since 2001, the EU Directive has been binding on infrastructure operators to equip them with conventional routes with ETCS. In order to be able to put this system into operation in Austria by the year 2012 for the regular operation, the Federal Government will provide financial resources which can also be found in the budget. Until the commissioning of the new construction lines Lainzer Tunnel, Vienna–St. Pölten and Unterinntal must also be converted to the vehicle series used. Thank you, Federal Minister Bures, for contributing to the development of an important technological advantage for the ÖBB. We are therefore joining a group of European technology leaders in the railway sector with Switzerland, Sweden, Denmark and Norway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69028	Next, Mr Huber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69050	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear viewers on the ranks! This budget is not just always to be criticized. There are also some points which cannot be criticized. We from BZÖ, of course, praise what fits. For example, in the FFG the increase in 2009 and in 2010 by € 7.8 million is very, very small, but in times of crisis it is a correct approach. There are also € 4.2 million for the non-university research institutions. This certainly represents an opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises to participate more easily in research and to improve the transfer of knowledge through networking. This budget item is supported by us. I mean, he can't be praised high enough. However, the height is approachable: A lot more money would have to be taken over for it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Further equality must also be sought from universities and technical colleges. With regard to the Austrian Academy of Sciences, the government programme states that the ÖAW and the Ludwig-Boltzmann Institutes should receive massively more money. In fact, in 2009 they will receive € 2 million more and in 2010 again € 2 million more. That's 87 million €. I quote the president of the ÖAW, Mr Univ.-Prof. Schuster, who said: Under €95 million in the budget we have serious difficulties and will not be able to pay our bills. He says that the increase in 2009 and 2010 will be devoured by the collective agreement with the salaries alone. – There is, of course, an immediate need for action. Furthermore, it would certainly be very important to take on board massively more money for the FWF, the Science Fund, so that young researchers can be promoted. In reality, however, instead of the €176 million, it receives only €160 million. It belongs to an enormous increase in expenditure. On this point, the budget has no courage and no desire to design. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now very briefly on the transport: Mrs. Federal Minister! In 2002, the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft in Lienz closed the Bundeskonvikt. In 1999 it was renovated by 40 million schilling. That is now being abandoned. I've used myself more often that you're finally getting active there. I'm asking you to give the order. The city of Lienz needs it as an event center. Please, sit down! The B 100 is also included in Lienz. The condition is unbearable. In the meantime you need an hour to travel through Lienz. There will soon be more traffic than in Vienna! This circumstance belongs to you immediately realized. Especially now in the economic crisis, it is important for rural areas that the federal roads be expanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69107	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69128	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This budget certainly has a lot of positive approaches. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Which one?]] I would like to address some areas of this. It is important to ensure that postal services are provided in rural regions to the same extent as in urban areas. This budget allows there to be no disadvantages. The Federal Estimate also has an important influence on the transport infrastructure. An attractive transport infrastructure serves not only personal freedom, but also the quality of our country's location and thus the development of the economy and the creation and maintenance of jobs. It is not only about promoting international accessibility, but also about securing and expanding transport connections within the country. There are infrastructure projects which are essentially defined from 2009 to 2014. For my state of Salzburg, I mention the above examples: the project “Angerschluchtbrücke”, the extension of the line Salzburg Hauptbahnhof to Freilassing, the projects Salzburg Hauptbahnhof and A 10 Tauerntunnel. There is also an economic package for road and rail in my federal state. These include the projects Hallwang Station, Seekirchen Station, Lend Station and Schwarzach/St Station. Veit. However, I must say that I feel that in this large list of projects, which are undoubtedly all important, Salzburg seems somewhat underrepresented. For this reason, I would also like to make it clear that it is necessary to implement and force these projects, which the country of Salzburg needs, in this period, but above all for them. This includes, for example, the continuation of negotiations with the competent German authorities for the purpose of removing traffic barriers in the “Small German corner”. There is also much to do in the country itself. As an example of the railway infrastructure, I mention the route for the HL-Trasse, which was created together with the municipalities concerned. These should be determined so that the construction can take place from 2015. I call the extension and completion of the NADIS Nord-Ost-Aste and the construction of the Golling–Throwing tunnel chain, which is to take place in two sections, not only for capacity but also for safety. I still call the reconstruction of the station stations Taxenbach and Bruck as the beginning of a station offensive in the districts. As far as the road is concerned, the crossing of rhinestones and hallfields is important, the planning of the route Mittersill or the motorway connection points Hagenau and also Ennsbogen, Altenmarkt or Pfarrwerp. [[Demonstratative condolences with representatives of the BZÖ.]] As a Lungauer, I still have the commitment to the improvements of the facilities on the Tauern motorway – in concrete terms: Tauerntunnel and Katschbergtunnel – give off. However, from my point of view, it is vital that we comply with the agreement with the neighbouring communities on environmental and noise protection measures. I've got to ask for this. [[Demonstratative condolences with representatives of the BZÖ.]] One last thing, the problem of the double toad in the Lungau: We accept that an additional fee will be charged in transit when using the cost-intensive tunnels. But the transport of goods from the Lungau and the Lungau continues to be subject to a serious competitive disadvantage. We need a solution, an EU-compliant solution in the interests of the economy, in the interests of jobs and in the interests of the citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69190	Mr Lausch is now speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69211	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The budget increases from €2.586 to € 2.612 billion. That sounds pretty good in the first approach. Mrs. Federal Minister, you know, there are two large companies in this country that are very deficient: ÖBB and ASFINAG! ASFINAG has a total debt of €10.9 billion at the end of 2008 – the 2009 outlook is relatively dark; it is known that the financial and economic crisis reduces the revenue from the truck toll – and the ÖBB has a total debt of €10.1 billion at the end of 2008. At the end of 2008 ASFINAG and ÖBB therefore accumulated a huge debt of €21 billion. Mrs. Bures, make it better than your predecessor! Her predecessor Faymann was on a station offensive. You have to look at that! First comes the track, the track, then the train comes – and then the station comes first. In my constituency, there are about enough single-tracked railway lines in Austria, and this is certainly not an indication of freight traffic. If you are afraid of a reduction in freight traffic, please create the guidelines for the transport of goods by rail, so that it will be lucrative to transport the goods on the rails! A single rail extension is certainly not all right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, you are also making the railway crossings in Austria – you know it from the past few years, your predecessor has done relatively little – safer! Also make sure that the motor vehicles and trains are maintained, because only in this way the safety of road users, the users of the ÖBB, is guaranteed! Make sure that there is at last a uniform training system, as well as uniform directives and regulations, because the regulations and directives in the field of public transport are left to be desired! Give overcrowded and stuffed trains – just as the People's Procuratorate did – a clear rejection! You must not forget: The pendler, the train user brings the train the money. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: No!]] He's supposed to feel comfortable, and he's deserved to be brought from A to B on a daily basis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: Smoker guard!]] OeBB’s speculation operations cost taxpayers even more than € 1 billion. Finally, Mrs Federal Minister, may you be told: Make it better than your predecessor Werner Faymann! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69273	Mrs Binder-Maier is now speaking at 2 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69295	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I am glad that we have a strong Minister of Transport with strong shoulders, because the loads of transport ministers Gorbach, Forstinger, Reichhold push and suppress very well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: Faymann!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The foreign exchange of the Minister for Transport: Investment, research and, at the same time, savings measures where appropriate. This is also the basis of the budget, the basis of the political line of the Federal Government. If we want to guarantee mobility, we need infrastructure measures that need to be sufficiently available for people to be mobile and to be able to participate in public and social life. A key aspect of mobility is safety, road safety. It is about the protection of people, especially about the protection of the weakest road users. The Minister has already presented a very ambitious programme in this regard, for example: Reform of moped training, improvement in the pre-eminence system, stricter penalties for high-risk drivers, and so on and so on. Especially our children are very dear to us when it comes to increasing road safety. It should not be mentioned that children are mainly in the car, because they are not secured, and not outside. That's why: Any support from us, Mrs Minister, to implement these transport safety points and to lift the safety of road users! Last but not least, Mrs Moser, on your request concerning Gigaliner – there is already a request from the Committee –: We will come to a reasonable solution, because we really don't need these monstross trucks in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69361	Mr Grünewald has now come to speak at 8 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69383	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Innovation is of course important, innovation is fundamental here and there – but also in Parliament. I would like to start by changing a few sentences with Klubobmann's head by an example of a misappropriate applied innovation, namely: You started to talk very hard yesterday and today, but towards the end of the speeches or where it became more critical, somehow watered down so that your argument has already occurred to me like a slightly pale, fearsome dance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] - All right. They're going to be a friend of agriculture. You appreciate eggs, don't you? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What I found quite funny – and I would like to talk about it: They meant that it was extremely important that the political opponent should also be allowed to sit in the Bureau. [[Abg. Head: I didn't say that! I didn’t talk about “conversant ”!]] So similar; at least in the paper it is said, “political opponent” or “contrast ” does not matter. – Faith You really think that only one party should occupy the Bureau? - No! It's all about: What if a friend at the Bureau does something that is incompatible with the basic consensus? – You have also mentioned strong expressions, but even if a friend did so at the top of the Bureau, I would have expected reactions that go beyond requests and requests and outrages – but you absolutely do not! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another question: Event legislation. – I hope that in Austria every law has a good and worthy reason to decide. Or do you want to cancel the Reaction Act because it was an event law? Do you want to say about the 1938 referendum for a free Austria: That was just an occasion, what's that supposed to be? – I don't think that's a good argument because it's not about it. It is about the reputation of the Republic and the State of Austria and about this basic consensus. And if these are as important things as all claim, I would have expected consensus to be found here. Your party colleague, Ferry Maier, made a proposal; I'm curious about what you're saying. I think it would be innovative to stop going on once, and to venture something new. That's where my appeal goes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now to the Federal Minister Bures and her innovation. – Innovation would in principle – as you cannot now necessarily be able to do something for it – to somehow implement what top EU and from the research scene in Alpbach already said six, seven, eight years ago in politics. At this time, for example, it was said that the sharp separation: here basic research – since applied research, today is counterproductive and obsolete in the sharpness of the separation. This does not appear in the Federal Ministry Act, but you are also innocent; I know. But what should be possible because of this, especially since there are the latest headings in the Federal Financial Framework Act: In the third section, your department and Dr. Hahn's department are located, and if this difference between basic research and applied research is not as sharp as some still believe falsely, then cooperations would be possible, for example, through CERN. The argument of Dr. Hahn, rather than a expensive CERN rather than three smaller and cheaper cooperations, is somewhat oblivious and also a little helpless in that it does not correspond to what Dr. Hahn and others say: All the budgets are rising, everything has become better or better! If everything gets better, it will not reach €16 million to continue a membership that has existed for 50 years. That's all a strange argument. Of course, new cooperations also have to do with the economy. You know, Japan has spent decades investing in applied research and neglecting basic research until one day it came about, everything that accumulated knowledge from basic research has been applied, and the pot of basic research was empty! They had nothing new to use. I would ask you, Mrs Bures, to go new ways with Dr. Hahn – I hope to go with him – and to “think together” this much more strongly, because these investments in international cooperation are proven to have a high return on the state. Maybe not tomorrow, as Grasser always expected – that was a bad deal at all; every savings package was only useful if the money flows were visible the next day, every investment just as much – because that's not the way it works in research. I would still have a request: the Climate Fund. . I know that in times when economic packages seem to be more important than anything else and are partly also, of course, one has tried to redistribute the climate fund for rehabilitation measures and – very application-oriented – construction measures and so on, for jobs – I say so now – internally. But I can suggest: When discussing new energies or what is biological, one should also examine, as it were, those basics or have them researched scientifically, which connects the population with technology, with nature. What are the fears, what are the fears, what are the expectations of these goals, the expectations of nature? What is nature, what is cultural landscape and what is artificial, imitated nature? – Only then can you make good projects. I've been talking to people who have sought support from this fund. They were comforted from month to month. The scientists are not turning their fingers, they are slowly going through with the nerves, because their projects are linked to international cooperation. Here you would have the opportunity to show Mrs. Minister, Dr. Hahn that you are able to think beyond the edge of a resort. – In this hope, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69459	Mr Singer has now come to speak with 4 minutes of desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69481	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A high-performance infrastructure is a prerequisite for managing traffic volumes and thus serves to secure the economic location of Austria. The implementation of multi-annual rail and road investment programmes with a focus on rail infrastructure achieves this objective. As the Upper Austrian, I am pleased that the ÖBB's framework plan provides for such important projects as the four-track extension of the Westbahn between Asten and Wels, the new construction line Attnang-Puchheim–Salzburg or the extension of the Wels–Passau line as well as the increased expansion of the North-South connection with the Summerauer- and the Pyhrn-Bahn. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Unfortunately it takes longer! Everything takes longer, back row!]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I have a special concern about the Pyrn train. We need a powerful connection between Linz and Graz, the second and third largest city in our country. Driving hours of three and a half hours are not customer-friendly and in no way reinforce the intention to force public transport. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: With change!]] – Thank you for the suggestion, of course. Investment programmes are strengthened by the economic package. In Upper Austria, a number of railway stations are being rebuilt and modernised, railway crossings can be opened up by the construction of underpasses, and slow-track routes are accelerated by the renewal of railways. The ASFINAG's construction program provides the second tube of the Bosrucktunnel and then the full expansion of the Klaus tunnel chain, the extension of the S 10, Unterstufsdorf–Freistadt, and the Linzer Westring and important motorway connections. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is important contributions to safeguarding jobs! For transport, innovation and technology, €2.263 billion will be available in 2009, taking into account the transfer of technology in the financing of ÖBB by almost 200 million more than 2008. Total expenditure of €2.470 billion is planned for 2010. It also includes grants for social public sector organisations, so to speak. In other words, social tariffs and reductions in passenger transport are now €60 million more to be booked, with private railways €10 million more. Ladies and gentlemen! Association grants strengthen our regions. A well-functioning local transport is an indispensable supply ground in rural areas. While there is a nominal reduction in public transport services, we can be pleased with a real increase, so that the Euro-08 ticket does not have to be taken into account this time. Finally, a word for closing post offices. We will look very closely at the conditions under which replacement solutions are found. The involvement of the mayors concerned is essential to me. However, there must also be incentives for the postal partners to fulfil the related tasks. Security of supply for the population, ladies and gentlemen, both in rural areas and cities must not suffer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69540	Mr Vock has now come to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69563	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! As a member of this House, I have unfortunately gained the impression that ASFINAG and ÖBB have not only been outsourced for budgetary reasons, but also in order to be able to mask abuses elegantly. Otherwise, it is not possible for me to explain why information about salaries, premiums and special payments from the board of directors is forwarded to the media, but when a Member of the House requests, one receives the answer: The proceedings do not fall into the inconsistency of the Federal Minister! I would have understood if the answers had been sent “confidentially” with the note, but I cannot understand that one simply says that there is no information about this. I would have been really interested in what the last deal looked like. Since I am an annual ticket user at the ÖBB and contributed €82 per month, I would be interested to see how many months I have to pay a card – i.e., the annual card – until this deal is Sorry. I'm just afraid I'm not going to experience that this is being repaid. We liberals say about the expansion of the ÖBB and its infrastructure, but what does the government do? – Currently, the sub-bahns continue to be dismantled. Instead of expanding it and making rail more attractive, it is further reduced. We say yes to the promotion of public transport, but the East Region transport association, for example, blocks all initiatives; whether this is the extension of the U6, whether this is the extension of the Vienna core zone – everything is blocked. As ministers, this could be done to make public transport at last attractive. We say yes to the transfer of transport from road to rail, and that also belongs to financial support. However, it should not be financially funded if the ÖBB transports to trucks. To do this, we have local helpers, private companies, who also carry the risk privately. If the ÖBB still flagged out and ordered Romanian fans, then this is a piggy here in Austria, which you simply have to fight, because the subsidized ÖBB are the competition for the local eaters. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] So we liberals say yes to public transport, but no to misunderstandings and mismanagement!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69609	Mr Stauber is now speaking at 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69631	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Investment in infrastructure and thus in transport projects are undoubtedly the most important measures to overcome the current economic crisis. I congratulate Mrs. Minister on your success in achieving a €3.7 billion budget for road and rail each year in the 2009 to 2014 planning period, because this is urgently necessary. I am delighted that you have also set a priority in favour of the rail. These transport investments represent the crucial engine for economic recovery in Austria and also directly generate employment effects. It is very encouraging, Mrs Verkehrsminister, if you strongly oppose the critics of the major projects of the ÖBB and support your projects, because I think these are extremely important projects for the future. Finally, even great skeptics – perhaps just to name one colleague: Mr Ferdinand Maier, for example – had to see and publicly admit – I quote: “Great projects such as the Koralm Tunnel, the expansion of the West Railway or the Semmering Base Tunnel are necessary.” I think that the coral tunnel is crucial for the whole south of Austria, especially for Carinthia and Styria, but for the whole of Austria. [[Demonstrative applause by Members Jury and Linder.]] I therefore expressly welcome your commitment to the construction of the Koralm Tunnel, Mrs Minister. – Thank you very much for that! [[Demonstrative applause and bravoruf des Abg. Linder.]] A rapid start of construction and rapid expansion of the coral tunnel is also an hour's commandment for economic policy. For the federal states of Carinthia and Styria, the tunnel is also an indispensable infrastructural necessity to create suitable and environmentally friendly export opportunities for the resident economic enterprises and to ensure the standard of living of the population. It is also in a united Europe in the interests of Austria that our country is integrated into the high-performance rail link from Gdansk to Bologna. We must not allow Austria to deal with the high-performance connections of the higher-level European rail networks from economic policy considerations. This project will open up an economic area for our country from the Baltic States to Eastern and Central Europe to Italy and Slovenia in the future. We can and must not just give up on that. Thank you very much, Mrs Bures, for your commitment to a comprehensive supply of postal services to the population, because the rural regions have already been eroded and punished enough in recent years by an unprecedented cost of infrastructure, by lockup of police departments, post offices, local services and schools. It's high time for a booster turnaround. It must not only remain in the case of lip confessions to strengthen the rural area, but we need to do so. You, Mrs Bures, are taking an important step in the right direction with your intentions. – Thank you, and much strength for your projects!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69679	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek at 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69701	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Even as an enthusiastic train driver, you sometimes do not miss out on participation in car and individual traffic. That's just necessary. One is commuting to work, one is driving around in the federal state because one has important supplies, and of course also the freight traffic is not to be forgotten. This is precisely the pendulum, for example, which is the important factor in ensuring income security. In Upper Austria alone, there are 340,000 counterparts who travel to work daily, and they currently feel it is not fair and inappropriate if they have to buy their vignette more expensive in the coming year. There you can now discuss whether this is fair, whether this is necessary in the course of a cost adjustment, an index adjustment – the commuters feel they are “caught out”, unfortunately partly also what the penalty is about, that is quite clear. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Right!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A levelling of the penalties can sometimes cause such a sensation. However, people would feel this less than sluggish if they knew that the proceeds from the penalties would be used for security measures. What's going on is the same with the vignettes for change marks – or even with the change marks for cars and motorcycles. The whole thing happens in a situation where, as a driver on the highway, you often experience that the rulers in the trucks overtake at any time, as it suits them. This is especially a problem on the two-track routes, on the three-track less, but the trucks are simply a nuisance, and you are only more of the payers yourself. Mrs. Federal Minister, please have a look at this! You will receive broad consent if you do something for the people. Mrs Bures, you have enough R & D resources in your department – and this is the second part – thank God and thanks to good negotiations. Please make sure that these R&D resources in the field of transport are done something! The status of transport is, if we look at the area of the railways, still like in the monarchy. Things are from technology every 150 years and urgently need a boost. It has already been mentioned today, from Upper Austria, from Linz or from Vienna it is the same thing: According to Carinthia, no matter if Villach or Klagenfurt, you drive almost as long as at the time of the monarchy. The wagons and charging technology, which are the elementary ones if you want to get the goods from the road to the rail, are not really compatible. If one were to start with development there, then one could use the current scuba diving phase created by the economic crisis elegantly in order to be better able to do so after the crisis. The same applies in individual traffic to the electric car. Currently, the electric car is just an advertising gag. In its overall energy balance – namely production and operation – it has a worse energy balance and a worse fossil energy balance than perhaps a normal diesel or petrol car, and this should be rolled up. That is, there are a lot of things in which you can improve a little through targeted research, otherwise the whole thing will never really be removed. The same applies to energy generation and energy storage. Mr. Hörl of the ÖVP is of course a preacher of this, but he is right, because if you can only achieve a few percent improvement in the energy generation, in the turbines, then the amount of gigawatt hours of electricity. In conclusion: In retrospect, I noticed that the chapter did not happen to foreigners, but it does not matter, Mr Stadler is not there anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69752	Mr Juryenschlager has now come to speak at 4 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69776	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! A total of € 404 million of additional funding for research and development is available in the 2009 and 2010 budgets for the Federal Ministries for Economic and Family Affairs, Transport, Innovation and Technology and for Science and Research. Special project technology: In this part, research and development funds for new impulses to support Austrian industry businesses as well as for projects to strengthen the technological infrastructure in Austria with a particular focus on improving cooperation between the economy and science. Many programmes will be promoted as impulses in future areas where problem solutions are developed and sustainable technologies are developed. It is important to further develop those structures that enable a powerful and cost-effective organisation of research and development. As a monastery neuburger, I am especially proud to give you an example of where science and research are promoted in order to secure Austria's economic location permanently and to attract companies. The Elite-Uni IST Austria starts operations. The whole of Europe is looking at Lower Austria, where the Excellence Union will be opened next week. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Excellence!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] By 2016, 500 scientists are expected to work there, bringing Austria into Europe's reputation as a location for top-level research. The IST itself is not a university with a teaching company in the real sense, but rather a research institution. The opening up of this top institute is a much more important step in the scientific world. Only very rarely are such facilities freshly stamped out of the ground. They are important international image carriers for the respective country as a research location. The framework conditions are ideal. In these areas of research, it is necessary to ensure that all framework conditions are guaranteed, but without directly affecting the work. Only in this way can research work freely and thus release innovations. Whether the IST will be successful in the next few years does not depend on the number of publications of its researchers, but rather on an assessment by the international reputation among scientists. We can be proud to have such an institute in Austria. This is a clear commitment to the elite and to top standards. Only in this way can we secure our position as a high wage country in the long term. If you want to achieve this, you have to be better than the others, and to get it, innovation is the basis of success. But in order to realize all this for the economic location and for the world of work in Austria, it is necessary to act and think internationally – Europeanly – because the field of research and innovation is more global than many others. There's no luck in the silent corner anymore. We don't need to be afraid not to be able to exist, especially internationally. We must not isolate ourselves, but we must build bridges, rather than startle fears.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69823	Mr Walser is next spoken, but I do not see him in the hall. [[Call the FPÖ:He's just changing his body! He's bending his body! He's moving!]] [[Call the BZÖ: He doesn't find his body! Wetties! The dignity of the House!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser goes to the speaker's desk.]] Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e69868	Madam President. High house! Mrs. Minister! I congratulate you on the higher budget. This is in principle a good news. Of course, in times of economic crisis, we need to promote innovative projects. It's a huge chance we've got right now. Now you could make your way in the right direction. Unfortunately – Mr Moser has already pointed this out – we see, however, clearly wrong priorities. If I think only of the need to loosen up as a minimum €10 billion for the Koralm and Brenner base tunnels in the coming years, then I mean that the money we would of course need is urgently for much more meaningful projects, especially since the basis of these plans – yes, exactly. [[Call Members Jury and Hörl:Arlbergtunnel...!]] [[Abg. Gahr: Let's lock the Arlberg Tunnel again!]] [[Abg. Gahr: We didn't need that either!]] – In part, there is something wrong when you think of the railway tunnel and also the road tunnel. [[Abg. Hörl: The Master School Director...!]] There are projects, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, which we have very much supported and supported, but here there is no sense and reason – I am sorry if I have to express this so clearly – especially since – and I actually wanted to refer to them – the whole is based on false forecasts, because the reference scenarios underlying the whole of the year 2025 do not hold a review at Weitem. They have been achieved on the basis of the years 2004 to 2007, and it has, perhaps, resulted in some kind of ecological change in 2008. At European level, one is partly further. There are already extensive transport strategies and extensive studies, which have also come about taking into account possible strong energy shortages, which are based on a reduction in motorised individual traffic of up to 40 percent. In this context, Mr Hagen, perhaps a short word about what I had to hear this morning, about these totally unqualified statements – these failures, you have to say almost – to Hildegard Brainer and Andreas Postner. Hildegard Brainer – the Grande Dame des Natur- und Umweltschafts in Vorarlberg, who has received countless awards and spent a lifetime working for an intact environment – is due to the fact that we were able to obtain a lot of living values in Vorarlberg, where concreters like Christoph Hagenand others did not come to the train. [[Abg. Hagen: Everything's all right!]] [[Abg. Hagen: You do not live in the district! If you talk to the people, you can talk to them!]] Andreas Postner is the specialist in terms of traffic issues in Vorarlberg, the man who has participated in plans in the Vorarlberger Unterland as well as in the Oberland, and has always given up the essential trains. If you make people like that, unfortunately it doesn't speak for you, I have to say quite honestly! [[Abg. Hagen: You don't live there!]] If you don't find birds in Lauteracher Ried, it might be related to the lack of knowledge you have in this context. It's the quail king when I'm allowed to bring you up to the state of things, and it's definitely worth protecting. [[Abg. Hagen: No one has seen him yet! They heard him!]] You know we can't build a highway in the middle of the nature reserve. However, one clearly sees this wrong set of priorities in Vorarlberg – especially addressed to the colleagues of the ÖVP. We also have our senseless tunnels, which we are currently building, but this is not exactly the Arlberg tunnel, but for example the second tube through the gate, which clearly has or would have gate function, if it did not exist, or the Achrein Tunnel, which begins in no one's country and stops in no one's country and is not going to pass through any village at all. [[Abg. Hagen: You didn't want him either!]] [[Abg. Hagen: There it can... suffocate!]] These are projects that have been made without meaning and intellect, instead of building the same money – or even cheaper – both projects together cost €500 million – a ring road in Vorarlberger Unterland, which we would urgently need and for which there are plans by the construction company Rhomberg. [[Abg. Hagen: Tell the people in...!]] The following generations would be grateful if we realized that now. It's negligent not to do that. The cost estimate for this is € 300 million. [[Abg. Hagen: We do a lot for environmental protection, but human protection...!]] If we compare these two figures, we know what is going wrong in Vorarlberg, what is going wrong in Austria. As I said, these are just small examples. At a time when the tariffs at ÖBB are increased by 5 per cent, while at the same time ÖBB managers are negligently speculating € 613 million, one must, I think, also clearly point to such things. [[Abg. Hagen: He's right again!]] We need a rethink. We need a different set of priorities than we have at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70088	Now comes Mr. Ing. Gartlehner with 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70109	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There was consensus today that we have a good research and innovation budget at BMVIT. That is general consensus, across political boundaries. I would also like to thank the Federal Government – especially Commissioner Bures – for having fought as heartily and successfully to be able to represent this budget as it is. What makes me particularly happy is that it has succeeded in reorganising the climate and energy funds, redesigning them and making them more efficient. The Climate and Energy Fund will soon come up with a very attractive new year programme and, of course, improve the innovation scene in Austria. We agreed on a TKG-Novelle in the coalition area – Mrs Hakl has already mentioned it. I believe that this story will lead to a continuation of broadband development and to a very efficient process. will lead and that we have only created the basis for truly comprehensive broadband development in Austria. Of course, we are also thinking about taking the right measures regarding digital dividends, and I believe that there are really great potentials that we can raise by promoting digitalisation across Austria. I would also like to say a few words on the topic of Pyhrnbahn: Of course, we should already be aware that there are only two north-south connections in the railway sector in Austria. The one is the South Railway, and the second North-South connection is the Pyrnbahn, which in the future can go from Linz to Klagenfurt and further to Italy, perhaps also north towards Prague. This connection is currently very unattractive, you have to say. We must try, as one of the major next projects, to approach this pyrn railway, as the West Railway is currently being built. The topic of Brenner Base Tunnel: The SPÖ position is known, and I really call on all our colleagues to support us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70161	Mr Dr. Strutz has now come to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70182	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! One of the most important measures in an economically and budgetaryly tense period is to operate Deficit Donation. This is the easiest thing to do by trying to implement, boost and secure projects in the infrastructure sector. One of the biggest projects, which I regret but which is repeatedly questioned and discussed, is the construction and completion of the coral railway, the completion of the North-South connection on the railway. To this end, the Republic of Austria, represented by the Minister of Transport at the time, but also the Minister of Finance, signed and established a contract in December 2004, in which the national leaders of the Styria and Carinthia were also involved and where concrete steps and a deadline for completion were fixed. The start-up of the Koralmbahn was fixed at the earliest possible time, however in 2016 at the latest – certainly also with the consideration that not only a faster link between Vienna and the south of Austria is realized, but also from national and regional economic considerations. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It should also be noted that the Koralmbahn Graz–Klagenfurt is an essential part of the system New South Railways are to be seen and this fact has also been taken into account by the fact that the Republic of Austria has signed very clear written agreements here. What concerns us is that this project is also repeatedly being questioned by SPÖ's Transport SpÖ, Heinzl. We are very concerned whether the contractual links entered into by the Republic are actually settled. That is why I ask you, Mrs Bundesminister: Will you also do everything you can to ensure that this project is implemented in accordance with the contract? Because the statements that have always been taken away from the speakers – especially yours Group – come and fear that this important project is at risk from the point of view of Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70230	The next speaker is Mr Katzian. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70252	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we have already heard many proposals on how best to use the research budget in the framework of BMVIT. As in general with regard to the budget, there is always the discussion: Who gets the biggest piece of cake? Where is it best used?, it is obviously also in the field of research and development. I believe that there are major potentials to be exploited, particularly in the context of energy efficiency and energy research. In my opinion, this will allow us to set important impulses for domestic companies and support the further development of renewable energy sources. As an instrument, the climate and energy funds, which are also currently being re-elected in the budget, have proved to be successful, with, of course, a need for constant evaluation and further development. I believe that this year's new legislation has taken an important step towards improving the efficiency of the KLI, and I believe that the Climate and Energy Fund is focusing on the right issues with its 2009 annual programme. As a SP energy speaker, I am particularly concerned about the focus on energy efficiency. In addition, I am very pleased that, as the Federal Minister has already mentioned today, the issue of electromobility is particularly important. I think there are already great considerations, projects and concepts in many companies. Supporting this, which will also help to accelerate the urgently needed structural change in the automotive industry, which affects many Austrian suppliers. Another focus of the current programme of the KL.IEN will be to promote the development of intelligent energy systems. In this context, the installation of intelligent power meters is also particularly mentioned. These will play a relevant role, as the third is still under negotiation. Internal market package for the energy sector Smart metering, i.e. the installation of these intelligent power meters, will play an essential role. I think that very important foundations can be created here in the field of research, including the technical requirements for these intelligent electricity meters, so that non-quick investments without appropriate technical frameworks lead to Stranded Costs, which we all have to carry together again. In this sense, Mrs Federal Minister, I congratulate you on this programme and also on the projects. I think these are important steps for the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70312	Mrs Dr. Moser spoke a second time. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70344	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, efficiency increases are always a fundamental concern of greens, especially when efficiency increases go hand in hand with employment effects. Mr Vorsprecher, we really would have proposed how we could meet your wishes, how we could support innovation programmes as well as Mrs Minister. Thermal building renovation can continue to be considered as an innovative research area, and above all we know that the largest employment potential is possible here compared to road construction and also compared to investment in rail. That is why we would strongly support a shift of funds in this direction, which is very likely to be job-creating, because it is also a massive concern for us to use budget resources in times of crisis to ensure that people have employment, that people have purchasing power, that overall the greening and sustainability of our economy is carried out to a greater extent. Efficiency is also linked to freight transport, and that is why I would like to make two more requests – this is the occasion of my second speech. One refers to a project by the European Commission, which unfortunately has now come to the fore on the occasion of the elections to the European Parliament, namely the approval of so-called gigalinians. My previous speaker has already pointed this out. There is already some sort of excuse that should also be discussed in the Committee, but I believe it is necessary, especially on the occasion of the EU elections, that we also have a clear sign in the House that we are against the fact that our roads and especially the people who live on the roads are being burdened by these 60-ton vehicles. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] And we need a second proposal in order to promote the overall change of people from relatively expensive mobility to cost-effective public mobility. Mrs. Minister, you have already said that the Austrian ticket is your concern. I think we should also underline this in the National Council. In particular, the ÖVP was at the forefront of election advertising. We have been saying this for many years and therefore we have tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70416	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to this: You have not filed your first request correctly. He was only shown in an exclusive way.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70434	I read it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70453	No, you did not read it to the full, so I would draw your attention to it at this point: either to bring it whole or it has not been brought in. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70468	At most I left out the last line for reasons of time. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] So: Should I start from the front or just read the last line?
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70492	If you start with: “This includes at least,” I take note of.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70508	In any case, this includes: resistance also to any authorisation of gigaliners not directly mandatory for Austria because of the negative retroactive effects on Austria; This also concludes a resistance to alleged compromises such as 45 or 50 tonnes gigalers; This also entails a resistance to Gigaliner authorisations at Member State level, This also includes a resistance and active lobbying against the EU Commission's trend-setting studies. And now the half-set that I did not say earlier is “like the one in May 2009”...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70542	Ladies and gentlemen, we have two different requests. I would like to ask you to clarify this and then perhaps come to the speaker's desk again. These are two different requests: the one that lies with me, and the one you read here. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70557	You're welcome, but I think that's the same thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70599	In any case, the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the Austrian-Ticket government programme has been properly submitted and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70666	We are trying to clarify the second request. The next item is the speech by Mr Kirchgatter. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70691	I think the requests will clarify. Madam President, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! I would like to refer to the innovation check for small and medium-sized enterprises, for a number of reasons. On the one hand, because the innovation check has succeeded in creating an offer that is very close to the practice of businesses, without dissuasive bureaucratic obstacles, and therefore it has been very much accepted by the target group and has developed into a success racer in a short time. On the other hand, I would like to stress that this was achieved for the first time in order to use the economic structure of our country according to funding, yet 80 percent of the funds went to the corporations and large businesses. The Innovation Check has created access for many small and medium-sized enterprises. The figures are impressive: a total of 941 approved applications, of which 196 in the Federal State of Upper Austria and 39 from my region – in about a year. For these companies, this is the beginning of cooperation with the research institutions, in particular with the technical universities and the universities. This makes these companies safe for the future due to a wide distribution of industries and sectors. For me, the opportunity to thank all those involved, especially our Mrs Minister, for this. Especially in economically difficult times, these funds are particularly well used. I am convinced of the innovative power of the people working in these companies, I am convinced of the further success of the innovation check! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70734	Mrs Silhavy is now speaking. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70755	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Bundesminister, I am sorry: Of course, this really good budget should have deserved our entire attention today. Unfortunately, however, the democratic developments of these days were such that it was necessary to have a discussion here. I would just like to say one sentence on the comments made by Mr Vilimsky. He once again tried to reverse the perpetrator-offer role, but what I did finding even worse is that you are trying to hide behind voters. The scandal, the political problem we have here in the House, has nothing to do with the voters of the FPÖ – it has only to do with the statements of the Third President of this House, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to say that budget resources in the infrastructure are particularly efficient and really highly focused on employment, and therefore a clear policy focus has been made. I would also like to thank you very much for my group. I would like to stress two points: Firstly, the FEMtech programme, women in research and technology, where a state prize for equal opportunities has been awarded and the following important objectives are pursued: to improve the framework conditions for women and men in research and development, to improve the framework conditions for women and men in R & D, to make businesses and non-university research institutions visible, to enable equal opportunities in R & D, to assist in the choice of jobs for emerging researchers as well as developers, to change the R&D culture in favour of equal opportunities, and to increase the visibility of FEMtech measures. I think it is very, very important if we are finally to achieve equal access and equal opportunities in these areas. My colleague Gartlehner has already addressed ICT, especially as regards broadband and the new initiatives. But here too, it is important to highlight a project, namely the “Demographic Change as an Opportunity” project, which has been launched in the framework of “benefit” to support the social challenges posed by research, technology and innovation, particularly in the field of ICT, with the focus on ICT-based active ageing, which is now also highlighted. I believe that these projects clearly show that, under a Social Democratic Minister, budgetary resources are used and priorities are set in such a way that they have, in addition to their employment policy impact, also prospects for the future, and that precisely where people are expected to have problems with the future are set up, so that these problems do not arise at all, but that we use modern innovative resources and opportunities for the benefit of people.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70835	Next speaker: Mr Mayer, 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70856	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Front: Achieving a research rate of 3 percent of GDP is and must be an attainable goal. Forcing Austria as an independent producer of top-level technology is a top priority. We have often seen many examples: Not the budget height alone is a guarantee of success. The effect of the funds used should be carefully considered and their reliability checked. Research initiatives with high social benefits should therefore be particularly highlighted. Side by side: I also consider the discussion on CERN membership necessary to evaluate the cost-benefit ratios here. Finally, CERN uses 70 percent of resources for international research. I am concerned that research success can also be implemented economically in order to secure value creation in the long term. This is a positive example from Upper Austria, namely the biogas plant in Utzenaich. For years, heat and electricity have been successfully generated from biomass, saying: from silage. In Utzenaich, however, a pilot project has recently tried to improve the efficiency of such installations. Concrete: The green cut of the meadows serves as a raw material for biogas production in the form of grass silage. Before this project, however, the silage is to be squeezed out so that lactic acid and amino acid can be produced from the juice for natural chemicals. It is primarily about the replacement of crude oil to be able to produce environmentally friendly bioplastics and solvents in a sustainable way. In the laboratory, the technology has been tested, and in a three-year test phase in Utzenaich, this procedure is to be matured for practice. The special thing about this is that it is the world's first biorefinery in this kind and would therefore catapult Austria into a leading role in this technology. We would even have a pioneering role to play in plant construction economically. In the case of a reasonable regional distribution in Upper Austria alone, ten such installations would be eligible. I do not believe that it is enough in the area of biomass use to generate “only” – under quotation marks – energy. Therefore, I would like to thank the Ministry responsible for supporting such projects. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to mention the climate and energy funds in this context. A budget of €150 million per year is available to achieve climate change targets and to increase the share of renewable energy sources. Of this, €29 million has already been used for the promotion of thermal rehabilitation, which is very, very well accepted. The Fund has been made slim and manageable to implement the annual programme and budgeted resources quickly. I would particularly like to welcome the announcement on the promotion and support of photovoltaic technology within the Fund. The demand and the willingness of the population to invest in this technology must be met. But also the support and advice of the communities taking initiatives in climate protection, such as Güssingen with his energy-autarchic project, is an important task of the Climate and Energy Fund. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Güssing means that!]] In particular, local actions enable awareness raising and the best possible implementation of climate change targets and must therefore be forced. I am convinced that the budget will be as fair as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70908	Mrs Mag. Brunner. Madam President, you are making the request that has not been made in its entirety. It would be enough for me – but it is your decision – to bring in the last two points. Please, ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70937	Madam President. High house! I correct the last two points made by the previous proposal, where it is also intended to be included. ‘Resistance against Gigaline authorisation by Member States instead of by the EU; Resistance and active lobbying against EU Commission's trend-setting studies, such as the JRC study,Introducing Mega Trucks, presented in May 2009. A Review for Policy Makers’.’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e70970	This motion for a resolution is therefore correct and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71106	In part transport, innovation and technology, no one has spoken. Thus, this subject area is completed. [[16:43:35]] Justice UG 13: Justice
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71133	Finally, we come to the negotiation of the section on justice, division 13. First, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer spoke at 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71160	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Ministers! Mr State Secretary! In Roman law, we learn – Mr State Secretary as a former church law teacher – that: Ultra virus nemo tenetur. For what one cannot, he cannot be held responsible. [[Call the ÖVP: A humanist!]] – Yes, yes, there is very rarely here in the house. But humanism is the basis of the Australian culture, which should be thought back and forth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So under this premise that “ultra viruses nemo tenetur” applies, the Federal Minister, I say in all fairness, cannot be accused that no longer... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] – If you want to milk cows, go on the meadow! Here we are talking about things that are good, these are justice and related concerns. And please don't bother me now! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The scarcity of the funds under which the Justice and the Minister of Justice suffers is advocating, no, not advocating, but annoying. That's it. We all suffer from money and capital shortages. [[Abg. Pendl: All?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] – Cap is very good when he speaks. We'll have to get him; he'll listen. You can improve the offer, that doesn't matter. It is similar to that in the case of farmers' associations with ÖAAB over the maximum use of funds within the framework of the non-functioning ÖVP propaganda. It's all right. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Well, that's what you learn from the paper, that's clear. Don't do anything! You don't have to be so upset, ODP colleagues. As I said, we are talking about things that have happened, and on the subject of justice, we must concentrate and try to follow the subject of negotiations. Now it is true that justice is actually a self-carrying body. € 796,251 million for 2010 and € 792,723 million for 2009 are recorded in revenue, and we have a deficit in the amount of 370 or 379 this year. We have often had the opportunity to point out that this deficit decline is mainly due to the cost burden of foreign offenders to be kept domestically. Good – or not good. Next point: The true yet critical mass recorded in the judicial process is, in fact, in the budget accompanying law, which is another reason to point to serious disadvantages. Point one: It is about a massive cost burden of €220 as a fee for obsessive disputes, where one has heard that negotiations should take place between SPÖ and ÖVP since the Committee in which the Budgetary Support Act has been adopted – with a mutual distortion that allows the other to win or lose. It is quite obvious that this is a massive impairment to a particular population that unfortunately has to deal with these things. In other words, from the point of view of consumer protection and people-friendliness, even in an area where it is not likely to cause the storms of joy to fight, namely the right of care and children's visitation, there could be an invitation to the rulers again. It's alleged that the ÖVP is going to lock up. You're missing a high share of the milk price, I know. So you don't want to leave out these 100 million people who might have been around. Maybe it's just a million anyway, we're modest. So it would be appropriate to face up to the rightful population – and this concerns the poorest in the country who have to argue in this area – and to avoid this tax burden. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next review point: There is an increase in the disputed value limit for the application of the reminder procedure from now on, already, €30 000 to €75 000. This cannot be justified by the need to save justice. And I'm thinking about what a risk this is to defendants. It can be easy – even to do so where the obligation to deliver in its own hands falls – for error to make a payment order legally binding. The old possibility of opposition is no longer available. There may then be people through error having a title on the neck, which is executable, but which is 1 million schilling in old currency, and may have to try to help themselves by laborious requests for re-establishment in the previous state, with an extreme uncertainty as to whether such a thing is possible. A high risk to be considered, in particular under the heading Consumer Protection. Next point: Increase the disputed value limit for bagatll procedures from € 2 000 to € 2 700. I recall that the challenge in the bagatal proceedings is only possible for reasons of incorrect legal assessment, not in the very essential area of incorrect identification of facts and incorrect validation of evidence. This is also a major consumer protection problem, in addition to where more than 80 percent of all civil disputes reach the dispute value of not even €2 200. It's not visible. Next point: Increase the barrier to dispute for the appealability of the Supreme Court in the ordinary revision area from €4,000 to €5,000 and from €20 000 to €30 000 in the case of extraordinary revision. This ever-increasing restriction on the appealability of the Supreme Court is to be rejected, as the increase in the number of cases is not, or is not, the loss of money, especially in Austria with the novice of civil proceedings in 1983, when the system of approval in the revision area was introduced in the German case, but was not consistently introduced, because the barrier to the dispute for fundamental questions does not exist in Germany. I recall the famous interest rate judgment of the Federal Court of Justice in 1982, where it was decided on the question of whether a bank would be entitled to set interest rates unilaterally. There was only one or two D-marks. This was not the case with us, but the principle revision, which is possible in Germany, made this decision possible. That is to say, the appealability of the Supreme Court has always been linked to a very high reduction effect, which is now being further pushed up. In total, we do not agree with that. I'm asking for understanding. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71258	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donner builder with desired 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71280	Madam President, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fichtenbauer. — (NL) Mr President, you have just repeated your speech about the last week, because you have referred mainly to the points of the budget accompanying law. I would then like to address these concerns again, which are quite understandable, although not justified, as I would like to explain to you. However, I am grateful to Mr Fichtenbauer for making one clear – and I believe that this is really something that must be pointed out at the beginning – that this result, which Mrs. Claudia Bandion-Ortner has achieved under the given conditions, in a difficult situation, at a difficult time, at a time of the economic crisis and the decline in revenue in the public budget – and it is her first two budgets that she had to negotiate after a few weeks of taking office – is really a good achievement. I would like to thank Mr Fichtenbauer for these excellent words. The fact that this view is justified can quickly be seen by looking at the cornerstones of these two budgets for the next two years of 2009 and 2010. We had – for comparison – €1.12 billion in the budget for the justice sector in 2008, we had $1.17 billion in 2009. You see, it's a plus, more than 10 percent. And we also planned €1.17 billion for 2010. So overall, a budget increase of 11.37 percent for this period – in times of the economic crisis, in times of decline in public revenue, I think, a very tangible result. The planning situation – because this discussion has been very intense in the last few weeks – must also be addressed in concrete terms: In the field of justice in 2008, that is, in the past year, in which justice has worked well, as is rightly stated by many and rightly, we have had 11 007 planning posts – and we have planned 11 011 for 2009. So, as you can see, no decline. I don't want to say either, it's a plus, even if there are four more planning sites, but it's at least a constant stand. And, admittedly, for the year 2010, some 11 000 planning sites have fallen from 42 planning sites, but this is practically nothing, less than 4 promills. So you have to be clear about that, I think. This means that some things that were quite legitimately desired, or new tasks, additional tasks to achieve even better quality, which are of course desirable and well justified, may not all be feasible. But again: Under the given framework conditions, at a time when public budgets are falling, where the revenue of the state is going down, some say that this is going to break down, it is quite a tangible, no, not just a tangible, I think, a very good, indeed an excellent result for the first budget negotiations of our Minister of Justice. And I think you can only congratulate her on that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is clear, as has been said, that you would of course have wanted more – and indeed needed more. This opinion is also correct, but under these conditions, we are all now jointly called upon to find potential for efficiency gains, perhaps also to question tasks, whether they should really be part of the judicial system in the present day, whether they would not be better established and relocated elsewhere. This work has, of course, been done in part now under the budget accompanying law. However, this budget accompanying law has only been the beginning of these considerations. I invite everyone here in this House, but I can also welcome the representatives of the judicial association at this point, which is also listening to here today, including all the judicial officials, to cooperate in the coming months, to find useful additional possibilities of improving efficiency, reducing tasks, in order to achieve the best possible outcome with the limited, scarce resources. I now come to these criticisms and suggestions by Mr Fichtenbauer. Mr Fichtenbauer, you have mentioned that negotiations should take place also after the decision of the Budget Support Act between the Coalition Parties. – I just say that negotiating is always good. I think we should always talk to each other, stay in conversation. And these negotiations are taking place, including with other parties, of course. All the suggestions there are very welcome. But one must also be clear: All these suggestions must not lead to less revenue. If there are such limited budgets, if we rightly say that the budget of the judicial unit does not have the volume you would like, it is obvious that there is no additional loss of revenue here. In other words, the ideas and proposals put forward must ultimately also be compensated for somewhere, also lead to a saving or even to revenue in other areas of justice, in order to achieve at least a cost-neutrality. Mr Fichtenbauer, you have also mentioned self-hand delivery. That is what we discussed last week. I don't see this as dramatic. We have also decided on a motion for a resolution that evaluates this new regulation by next year, that it should be examined how it affects whether the fears that stand in the room or not. I believe that it will bring an advantage to many, more than 90 percent of those concerned, of the citizens, if anyone in the family association can take on a self-deserved record and you don't have to take a holiday day to pick up a blue letter from the Post Office. This, in the end, also brings a savings to the citizen. I also believe that there will be no deficit for those concerned, because it is at least detectable if the letter takes over someone as a replacement recipient, that he has been taken over, while we now have no proof at all when we deposit, when the post piece goes back to the court, after expiry of the deposit period, and yet it is deemed to have been delivered. So I don't think there will be any negative effects. But, as has been said, it was decided here in the House that it should be evaluated by the department. And we will then discuss these results again. The question of concentration of remedies has been raised. In this area too, I can only say that I think it is quite justified to raise these limits again and again, because, through the devaluation of money, there is also a certain effect. And so again a certain concentration was set and decided. On the question of the right of visit, this does not allow me any more time, but I think that is also the point: There is no procedural aid where it is not possible, and the fee will be waived. Where it is manageable, you have to say honestly: Why should not the person concerned, who is concerned about justice, pay this benefit, but the taxpayer? – After all, it will have to be paid, and that was the approach in this area. But, as has been said, in this area we are open to further discussions, to discussions. It does not end the era of justice with this budget, but we are still very happy to be in touch and discuss in order to accept proposals – which, in the end, of course, must also secure the budget. Finally, I should like to say thank you to Mrs. Bandion-Ortner, especially her office and her officials in her home, but also to all the members of the judiciary in various areas – in court, in judicial institutions, wherever – on the one hand, for these very intensive and difficult budget negotiations and ultimately for their results, but also for the good and excellent work done in the field of justice – which confirms us, on the one hand, to the citizens, the legal subjects in many cases, but this is also confirmed by international studies. Thanks to all employees for this excellent work!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71386	Mr Scheibner has now come to speak with a desired speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71407	Madam President. Ms. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Donnerbauer has now made a very favourable comment on the judicial budget. Mr. Donnerbauer, I see this a little differently, because: It's right, we're in an economic crisis, and there's a need to save. We would have expected you to make savings, but not where your federal government has done it, namely in terms of security. Unfortunately, this is the case: One has saved in the interior, one has saved in the defence resort, and one has also saved in the judicial resort. – That’s the wrong sign! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We would have expected that, for example, through an administrative reform, savings would be made through a health reform. There would have been the billions we would have liked to invest in security. Thankfully, Mrs Justice Minister, you have also made this clear in the Committee on Budgets – unlike Mr Donnerbauer, you have made this clear – that you cannot rule out the fact that next year there will also be human savings, for example among the judicial guards. – Mr Pendl, you heard it too. – These are things that we all need to prevent together, because we need not less in justice, but more staff! [[BZÖ and Abg. It's funny.]] We need more staff both in the detention centres – because it is also a threat to staff if such bottlenecks continue to occur there – as well as to prosecutors and judges. What you, Mr Donnerbauer, have forgotten to say: There have been more tasks for the judicial staff in recent years! Through the criminal trial novels, there has been more need, but also now, by the introduction of the corruption prosecutor's office. These are all important initiatives, but they must also be more human. And all this against the background of increasing crime in all areas! I know that crime can not only be fought by justice, not only by the police, but it is also an important measure that we strengthen the justice system and show that it is an important element in the fight against excessive crime. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But we also want to take some clear steps, ladies and gentlemen. There's a lot to do, Mrs. Justice Minister. On the one hand, with regard to the still-in-the-earth situation in the assessment, including by the judicial system, of violent offences versus property offences. We want to point out clearly that if someone is physically threatened and physically damaged by another person, he will not be treated with mildness, but with the appropriate hardness, also by our justice. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then: A financial damage may be compensated, but in many of these violent crimes, and especially in the case of sexual offences, this act means “life-long” – but usually only for the victim, who may not recover from the consequences for life! . We want the action of the judicial authorities to be followed accordingly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is no room at all for harmonizing, for example, terrorist acts, Mrs Justice Minister. Here too, we want a clear signal: There is no place here in Austria for terrorists – no matter where they come from, and no matter what arguments they call for their terrorist actions. The rule of law must deal with all these terrorist acts! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We would also expect - and you also said in the Committee that you can imagine this - that we are going to abolish these rulers where they come from, that we agree with the countries, with the countries of origin of the perpetrators, just as Justice Minister Böhmdorfer has already initiated, that they do not sit down comfortably here and may still be freed from their terrorist brothers, but that they will be transferred to their homelands after being sentenced and that they will be able to place their punishments there. That would be an important measure! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We also expect it to be made clear that someone who is present here as an asylumant and becomes a criminal offence or is involved in a terrorist act has, of course, caused every reason for asylum to be terminated and that this criminal is to be postponed. These would also be clear signals for the rule of law! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What we do not want, Minister of Justice, are future prison relief packages, as she did your predecessor. We do not want the righteous citizens to be barricaded and imprisoned because the perpetrators are released early. You know – we asked for this in the Committee on Justice – that last year 118 sexual offenders were released early. – A completely wrong signal, ladies and gentlemen and Mrs Minister of Justice! We want sexual offenders, in particular, to destroy their term of detention until the last day! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you say that you have to monitor them accordingly in the future, then, of course, by a change of law, that you can also take accompanying measures following a completely fined sentence, which can otherwise only be taken in the event of a conditional penalty. Just as, Minister of Justice, we want to take appropriate measures against drug dealers. We also want to take measures against youth crime, both against violence against children and against violence that is now increasingly against young people. No one wants to arrest young people, but we must ensure that even criminal youths see that their crimes do not go unfulfilled, but that social measures, as well as measures of justice – and there are a whole series of positive measures in the law of the youth, in which the act is not prosecuted – are applied to these juvenile offenders. Finally, Mrs. Justice Minister, we expect that family law at last – many, many measures that are antiquated in family law from the previous century and from 1938 – will be modernized to address the normality of the patchwork family. This is far more important than the question of how to regulate communities that have not yet been regulated. [[Abg. May. Worm: This too is important!]] That's important, too. But it is even more important – because it also concerns a majority – that patchwork families should also be treated properly in family law, especially the children from the fact that there are no differences for a child with the value of a child – no matter what relationship it comes from. That would really be a big work programme. We will give you the support, Mrs. Justice Minister, if you do so. In any event, we do not want a judicial policy, in which one considers that the remaining risk of offenders is that they will fall back on society, because the offender is not guilty and is not responsible, but society. We say it's the criminal, like every human being, responsible for himself. We want prevention – but if someone cannot fit into the rule of law, he also has to suffer the consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71542	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71563	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner, I don't want to go into it for long now, just one short: Much of what has been said and presented here is simply not right. That is why it is of course also very difficult to deal with virtual things. In any event, the most important thing is that every time the sentence is executed – I can say at the outset – is that after that intensive care is taken. Therefore, the work of ‘NEUSTART’ should certainly be substantially supported. This, of course, is the best way to protect society: that those who have become criminal are also led in integration, so that the best reintegration is possible. - That's one thing. Second: Staff needs. Of course, there is a high staffing requirement, and of course it is also true that the current budgetary situation has found its way into all sectors. It has already been said today: The area of justice has actually gone out very well in this context, one has to say. Of course, there are still scarcity, but in fact, within the framework of the budget positions to be allocated, it has succeeded in developing a good position. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it's important to say the following: The reason for this shortage of personnel was the devastating reform, the criminal process reform that we owe to Minister Böhmdorfer, because, in itself, the system would not be bad, but would have made it necessary a huge need for staff. That is what we knew at the time, ladies and gentlemen, and you know how we discussed and said: The system in itself is good, but it needs more prosecutors in particular, because the prosecutors are supposed to intervene much more in police work, and we do not have them! – That is why we are now facing a situation that is not in itself funny. If more or less is said – what has also happened in the last discussion –: Well, if we change a little in terms of sentences, then we can improve the crime that we have unfortunately suffered here in recent times!, unfortunately, this is not as easy as possible, because if no cases are brought to justice – the education rate is on the international average at a fraction – then this cannot happen either. We are all still suffering from the Strasser’s “Police Reform”, which has carried out a demolition for unwholesome reasons, as I mean. But Mrs Fekter is there, I think, very well on the go, because she is again reasonable. We hope that we can restore all these Bohemian/Strasser attacks on justice and the executive. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have new issues; the jury courts too are in the discussion. There's a less in the sheds. As far as jury jurisdiction is concerned, Mrs Minister, it must already be pointed out that it is very important to maintain the basic idea of the people's participation in justice. I understand that it may be easier if the professional judges have a strong, dominant role and can explain to the jury where it is going, and they can then say yes and no. The most important thing, however, is that the training, the education, the information about the task of the jury and what is actually happening is improved. This is, of course, a different access than if you say that the oaths can't do that anyway, so you have to put them a judge who says how it goes. The whole thing would then become a staff. We don't want to. In the context of jurisdiction, there are also consequences – economic law has been addressed –: We all know that there are a lot of large causations that are currently pending, where there is certainly a need for an increase in the public prosecutors' offices. I also believe that it is the case that this could be expected, because there is a high yield due to levies. For example, if you look at us in the Causa Meinl – I am already looking forward to Mr Ikrath’s speech afterwards, and I think we will take up the subject tomorrow – read every day in the newspaper: “Fact is”, and then some claim is made, which is mostly not correct, and at the same time, armies of lawyers oppose a single prosecutor. and then we see the need to provide appropriate support to justice. Ms Bandion-Ortner has informed us that there will be improvements through future interfaces. And this is a very urgent activity that we want to do. The improvement of the rules on corruption will certainly also lead to greater clarity in order not to be identified in cases which are not meant in the end. Legal uncertainty is not the goal. I think we're on our way here, too, to find a good conclusion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71642	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71663	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! “The judges work at the limit. ... Nothing is more dangerous than neglecting justice. That would endanger the rule of law. Everyone is working on the limits of their loadability...” – This is a striking analysis. She does not come from me, but comes from you when you, Mrs. Bandion-Ortner, your office, took up your role as Minister of Justice. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have then announced that you will fight like a lion. – That’s what it was. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That's what happened!]] The outcome of the budgetary negotiations was extremely unsatisfactory: [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Plus...!]] The objectives could not be achieved in the planning area, nor in the budgetary field could the funds be covered in such a way that the tasks of the judicial system can be fulfilled satisfactorily. Mr. Minister of Justice Bandion-Ortner, I'm inclined to take you almost a little into protection. It may simply be that the Minister of Finance does not raise awareness in this area and does not see any need in the rule of law and, so to speak, you are a little victim of the Minister of Finance. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] But what I don't understand is that you're making a mistake: that you see problems first, then you fail in negotiations – and then you can still instrumentalize and say that it's not that bad. If you're addressed, it's like: We are at the forefront of the process, and we are the European leader in the quality of the procedure. – That may be true. The crucial question, however, is: What are you doing to keep us at the top of Europe in the future? – In this respect, I cannot see too much in the budget. But let's take a look at it in detail, Mrs. Federal Minister. First of all, at the staff: They wanted 440 more planning sites, have negotiated – and now need to save 170 planning sites. Specific situation: There are already 30 prosecutors and 150 judges missing; about 250 law firms are missing in the law firm. The consequences are relatively clear: The duration of the proceedings will increase – that is logical if there are too few judges, if there are too few law enforcement officers who write the protocols and complete the charges – and the sufferers will be those who are seeking legal protection you have “rewarded” with the increase in fees – under quotation marks. If the staff representatives are criticising your staff concept, it almost sounds a little despicable when you say that these are savings in the Promille area. Mr Donnerbauer then gave it back immediately. That's not appropriate, and it's not true either, because what's going to be silent – and you've said that yourself again and again: There's already a staff gap! We already lack 500 plan posts. With their further savings, 5 percent of the necessary staff will be missing in the future. It is therefore cynical to talk about the fact that it deals with promille affairs. To your discharges. Red and black have already decided on the so-called justice relief package in the budget accompanying law. It must be said that the question of the extent to which these discharges take place at all is raised. I have my doubts that they are given to the extent you suggest. What is at all the question of whether you can tell us exactly where discharges occur, because to what extent discharges are expected, you, Mrs Bandion-Ortner, in the committee, have said that an exact description of the impact of these redundancies on human resources is not yet possible. But Your problem continues: It is not even those who want to relieve you of your discharges. The President of the Zinc judge association has said very aptly that citizens will receive less in the future for more money. – There is nothing to add to it. On the subject of probation aid. This is a special issue of mine, because I am particularly disappointed with you in this area, because you have always promised that the parole aid will get more money. You have to look at the starting position: In 2007, we decided on a debt relief package. In contrast to the BZÖ, which obviously did not understand the meaning and purpose of the debt relief package after two years of discussion, we consider the debt relief package to be correct. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What is the meaning and purpose? That 118 sexual offenders...?]] Why? – You see this similarly: Increased conditional redundancies are due to the issue of probation aid, with the aim – and this is also achieved – that there is a lower rate of relapse. So a good initiative! This relief package entered into force in 2008 and is quite a success. That means more arrests are coming. The figures speak a clear language: The resulting redundancies under the conditions of probation aid have tripled from 405 to 1 266 cases. What are you doing? – You cut the money off the parole aid! That means your motto is: There is more work, so there should be less money! It can't be like that! Firstly, this is a clear break from the word; I would remind you of your commitments in the judicial committee that there is more money for parole aid. Second, dangerous They thus ensure the success of the relief package, because a consequence, namely the success parameter, that post-care will work, is not guaranteed. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer:... no word break!]] What's the result? – There is less time for the individual parole helpers for their clients; a clear loss of quality, colleague Donnerbauer! The second is: It will come at waiting times. There will be conditional redundancies, for which the association ‘NEUSTART’ may not be able to provide a probationary aid, so that persons are not cared for. Ms Bandion-Ortner, a similar situation exists in the non-profit sector, an important and right institution in the debt relief package, which also contributed to the ÖVP. It is about the fact that when people cannot pay their fines and there is a penalty for replacement, they are not sent to prison, but they have this done on non-profit. Your budget is not enough at Weitem, because this project Community Performance Thank God is strongly accepted and a great success. The situation is as follows: There is money for about 2,500 cases, and according to current forecast, this money will be exhausted already in the middle of the year. It raises the question of what will be after that. My presumption is that there will simply be no offers for non-profit-making services and that those concerned will have to take their replacement sentences. I ask you the following and give you an example. There is, for example, the truck driver who smuggled cigarettes, then is sentenced and cannot pay his fine. He could either do this through a non-profit service now, or he would have to take the penalty of replacement. If he is lucky to be affected in the first half of the year, he can perform the charitable service; if it is in the second half of the year, then he will have to take the penalty of replacement. Mrs. Bandion-Ortner, this is negligent! They are always trying to tell us in the committee or in the "ZIB 2" that it is going to come out somehow. – That’s too little for me; that’s a little bit of a voodoo policy you’re running. In this sense, of course, we will reject the budget. We believe that you have not provided a good service to the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71783	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71804	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of his speech, Mr Fichtenbauer pointed out that there is a scarcity of the resources that we unfortunately have to take on. This scarcity of resources, of course, also refers to the human resources situation in the judicial system. Nevertheless, the scarcity of the funds is not as serious as it was presented by my previous speaker Steinhauser. The savings in the staff sector will take place from 2010 to the level of 42 and from 2012 to the level of 43 planning posts per year. That's actually just a minus of 4 promills a year. Even though this is clearly unfortunate, it does not happen to this excessive extent as you have described it before. [[Call at the FPÖ:But there are already no planning positions!]] I would like to congratulate Mrs Bundesminister Bandion-Ortner on understanding the crisis as an opportunity by using efficiency potential and easing judicial staff through numerous short- and long-term measures. As a result, it will succeed in halting the necessary redundancies and will continue to ensure high legal certainty, individual case-law, transparency and access to justice. It is clear – and this has already been expressed in previous debates – that the number of posts is of particular importance to justice. However, I would like to go further into another budget item, namely the promotions. It should be noted that the funding of the associations is of particular importance to the Bundesanlagschlag. They have the task of training suitable officers for mentally handicapped or mentally ill persons and providing them with the necessary information to the courts. In recent years, the number of trade unions has increased rapidly: While approximately 25,000 were still counted in 1993, in 2007 the figure was already over 80 000. In comparison to the demortem order, which was replaced by the law of the State in 1984, the board is now used five times as often as possible. In addition, these associations provide specific training for patients’ lawyers and their provision for persons who are housed in closed areas of psychiatric hospitals, as provided for under the Accommodation Act. These associations therefore make an indispensable contribution to the legal care of mentally handicapped and mentally ill persons. With the representation of residents within the meaning of the Home Residence Act, they carry out another very important task. In addition, it is of particular importance to support the associations for victim assistance. These offer process support for victims by means of funding. In recent years, the number of associations with which promotion contracts have been concluded has multiplied from initially four in 2000 to currently 49. These associations offer psychosocial and legal process support. The psychosocial process follow-up includes the preparation of data subjects for the procedure and the related emotional loads, as well as the monitoring of hearing in the preliminary and main proceedings. The legal process support refers to legal advice and representation by a lawyer. In this context, I should also like to remind you that we have only recently reached the 2nd place. In the case of the United Kingdom, the Court of Justice has failed to fulfil its obligations under the law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities and of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Among other things, the aim was to further enhance the protection of victims. This includes the introduction of the psychosocial and legal follow-up to criminal proceedings in civil proceedings. Under the title "Promoting" there are also subsidies to the Association for Legal and Criminal Sociology and to the Center of Legal Competence, which is active in the area of support for the transformation countries in the reforms of the legal systems. I very much welcome the fact that more money will be available in future for the state of affairs, patient prosecution and victim assistance. I would like to thank Mrs Bandion-Ortner for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71848	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71869	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to address two areas of detail from the point of view of the liberals. One is the incentive to limit the jurisdiction of the jury. – We reject this because we see the jury jurisdiction as an initial very great progress, since the people are involved in the case law. We do not believe that savings should be the benchmark to intervene in this legal institution. It is precisely its advantages, in political processes anyway, but also, so to speak, in the case of the classical offences, which are the sworn processes fall. We also need to take into account the regularity of the unbiased layman. I therefore still think it makes sense to keep this up and try not to shake it, but to keep it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not about creating internal artificially more planning sites by being able to pull down judges there and instead use court dishes to save them. That would be the wrong way. The second point I have mentioned here, and which I am now setting out a little further, is the problem with the right to visit. There is a great displeasure in Austria for those who are affected, and we repeatedly note that these right to visit procedures are being handled very restrictively. It is undoubtedly a very sensitive area in which people, mostly fathers, want to maintain contact with their children after a separation. These procedures are very lengthy and, as I have said, they are very restrictive. It must also be taken into account that these people who fight to see their child are very often fathers who have to make a living and, if they are weak income recipients, may even have to live under the minimum of existence, because this is possible in exceptional circumstances. Now that fees are introduced, therefore, is a completely wrong way, even if one takes into account that no fees are raised in the care process because one assumes that the common care or care process is in itself within the meaning of the minors, i.e. the children. Why can't the right to visit be seen in the same way as the children? – I hope that it is not really meant that it would not be a positive step to allow the children to visit the father or the mother. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I hope that this is a system of illegality which can also be changed in the course of negotiations today and tomorrow and in tomorrow's vote, so that this regulation will be removed, which would be a way in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71938	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e71960	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to raise a number of issues of relevance to the budget chapter on justice. The government parties have already entered into a legal system in a first step. I only recall the 2009 Novelle, the residential law; other points are on the agenda. If you look at the Government Convention, you will see that security charges, broker fees and issues relating to thermal rehabilitation are listed. But from my point of view, the most urgent question is the latest OGH judgment concerning the replacement of hosts in rental apartments. There has so far been no definitive political consensus on this question, and a clear judgment has therefore been expected with tension. This is not the case now, and therefore policy is called on to find a solution to create a legal regime. I am actually very glad that this is the case, because it is the policy to find rules, and I welcome the fact that policy is required on this issue. This recent judgment states that the landlord is not obliged to receive the right to receive a rental pension, but at the same time it says that the tenant has the opportunity to claim his right to reduce the rent rate in the event of harmful thermal conditions. Now the scientific research and teaching also speak of it – and I quote Professor Vonkilch in the "Presse" of the 7th century. May, – that the matter is currently an “irregular area”; it goes on to say that this situation “screams” after a legal solution. The basis for parliamentary negotiations could be the discussions of the social partners which have already been held, according to which the landlord has to act for maintenance and the tenant for maintenance. But in principle I am sure that, in the sense of social balance and a broad consensus in the population, the question of maintenance and maintenance can soon be addressed to a legal regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72005	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72026	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Today, I have expressed my condolences with Mrs Bures, the speaker's voice, and I should also like to express my thanks to your predecessor, Mrs Bandion-Ortner. Mrs Verkehrsminister had with the current Chancellor, Mr Faymann, an disgusting predecessor, who left her a sniper. You, Mrs. Bandion-Ortner, certainly have no pleasure with your predecessor, with what Mrs. Berger left behind. I would like to take a brief look at this. Mrs. Bandion-Ortner, I find it very negligent to save on the judicial budget. When we look at this: The staff stand among the judges, the prosecutors, especially with the massively overburdened judicial officers, and as we have experienced and know, they are all extremely overburdened. Therefore, the savings of 169 planning points should be considered to be grossly negligent by 2013. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If, from the point of view of the criminal process change that came into force some time ago, you also see that the number of prosecutors is reduced from 402 to 343, then you have to continue playing the whole game. Because of the criminal procedure, the investigating judges have disappeared, that is, there is more work to be done on the prosecutors. If They now save there, then they reach somewhere where they can no longer cope with their work. And then what happens? - Then the turnaround comes: As the police are now the first instance after the new criminal procedure, work is then carried out on the executive officers. We all know that the executive officials are enormously overburdened and that they should actually take care of security outside and not have done the bureaucratic work of the prosecutors! Ladies and gentlemen, I also noticed in the budget that the cost of maintaining the buildings was reduced by 49 percent. When I remember that many detention centres are massively overcrowded – I am particularly addressing the area of Vienna here – and that nothing is done in this area, then that is extremely worrying. Moreover, if I think that the low and overburdened staff who have to serve in these overcrowded detention centres are still being removed, I find that extremely incomprehensible. Now I would like to focus on a subject that has only to do with the budget, but still has to do with it. You may be able to explain this to me. I would like to address a subject that your predecessor, we say once so salopp, has “bombed” it. It is striking that more and more therapy is being made instead of punishment. When we play it through and look into practice: Every drug dealer is now also a drug consumer! He quickly sniffs into anything, then he can prove that he is dependent, and then it says “therapy instead of punishment”, therapy instead of the punishment that is actually intended for this serious crime of drug trafficking, the sale of drugs and the consequences to act dissuasive. If we pay attention to how many lives it costs, how much suffering and misery it brings, and if you see that these rulers sit comfortably in any therapy and really don't get any punishment, then you have to say there's certainly something going wrong! I can only explain this to myself that the prison expenses, which amount to 100,65 € per day, are so high that you see that you bring out as many criminals as possible from prisons that the punishments are kept low that everyone else takes care of the prisoners, but not your resort, which would actually be responsible, Minister Bandion-Ortner! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, these mass redundancies cannot be understood due to the high cost. Mr Scheibner has already mentioned it: Under Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer, the idea was to do something to foreign offenders. Our prisons are overrun in front of foreign criminals or also those with migrants' backgrounds. If we see that we bring these foreign offenders abroad, where they come from, and that they also sit down where they come from, then that would be right. Moreover, if you know that today's detention costs are so high because these foreign offenders are being treated medically when they are sitting – most of them have any diseases, lazy teeth or anything, and that's being repaired at tax costs – then you don't need to wonder why these costs are so high. Here's what you could do: They will be transferred to the country of their home country and put their punishment there. Now I would like to give an example of how it should not work, Mrs Minister; perhaps take this with you and speak to it at your place of business. I know a case where three foreign drug dealers were caught by a hidden investigator. The fact was that they were presented to the arrester and he released these three foreign drug dealers, with the reason – and I'm going to be pretty bad because I'm a right-wing person... [[Abg. May. Worm: Righteousness is what it means!]] Legally and from the legal point of view. So if I hear that it means that there is no risk of action and no threat of repetition, I ask you, Mrs Minister: What kind of judge do they judge like that?- Oh, my God! Someone told me that one could already believe that the prosecutors or the courts were branches of the green party, so is judged. I would like to say one more thing: With all good will for saving and budgeting – I know we have an economic crisis, we are putting everything on this economic crisis – it is certainly the wrong way to save in the field of security! You're in the wrong place with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72101	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72122	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! When we look at the budget figures, we see, there are savings in all areas, unfortunately also – and that is very painful – in the area of justice. However, it is worth mentioning that our Lady Minister succeeded in distributing these savings to all professional groups within the judiciary. That seems very important to me. The budget estimates for 2009 and 2010 for the area of justice amount to €1.17 billion. This means an increase of € 130 million by the year 2013, but it is nevertheless quite clear that households have been announced. It is essential that access to justice is guaranteed and that there is a high level of legal certainty. Because I am very concerned about the protection of victims, I would like to deal specifically with this area. This month it is twelve years since a law of protection against violence was introduced in Austria for better protection of victims. In recent years, we have regulated ongoing improvements for victims. Thus, in 2006 the psychosocial and legal follow-up was introduced, we passed the Second Victim Protection Act in 2008 and strengthened the position of victims during the criminal proceedings. The circle of those entitled to the benefit has certainly been expanded. There is no question that victim protection should continue to be given a very high priority. Our Minister of Justice has already said that the focus will continue to be on preserving legal protection and victim protection. Victims' rights will not be withdrawn and information will be transported more easily, more clearly and efficiently. The effectiveness of justice should be safeguarded by narrower procedures, while at the same time reducing red tape and simplifying tasks through many individual measures. These measures will in no way cut victims' rights and the possibility of continuing procedures will not be abolished. On the contrary: The victim is more helped by a rapid procedure. We have also planned in the Coalition Agreement to improve the personal protection of individuals in media law and to improve the protection of victims of criminal acts by means of media law. The extension of identity protection to members of victims and perpetrators as well as witnesses of criminal proceedings is also foreseen here. These are important points that still need to be implemented. As far as the protection of victims is concerned, there must never be a standstill! [[Abg. Pendl: Great!]] Finally, I would like to stress that a Council of Europe Commission has found that the efficiency of Austrian justice in the field of victim protection is in the forefront. The promotion of the associations for victim assistance is of particular importance – that is only logical. Justice has worked very well so far and our Mrs. Bandion-Ortner is sure that she will continue to work successfully!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72172	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72195	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear spectators on the ranks! I would like to focus on those areas that concern our young people, young people and young people: those institutions in justice that benefit children and young people. First, the child's assistance: There was a pilot project planned by the Federal Ministry of Justice in autumn 2005 between 2006 and 2008 and was carried out jointly with the Federal Ministry of Health, Youth and Family. The aim of this child assistance was and is to provide children with emotional, psychological and legal support in visit and care disputes, as it is obvious that a gap has rightly been recognised in advance due to experience in this area. There were then detailed evaluations of the Institute of Legal and Criminal Sociology and of Ms. Christa Pelikan. The evaluations have clearly shown that this is a good project, which has actually led to the desired successes. Only there, as always, is the question: How well can a project be carried out if it does not have sufficient resources? Her predecessor, Minister Berger, has already said that it is planned to use €300 000 for this purpose. You, Mrs Bandion-Ortner, have now also foreseen this in the budget. In response to a request we have put to you in the committee, we have received the answer that Austria is expected to take 600 cases per year, that you are going to be around €1,000 in each case. It is here in the rough of 15 hours of child support of €60, and it is also assumed that half of these costs will be borne by the parents. That's where our criticism goes: We know from other institutions where there is already a self-retaining of the parents – such as the visitation support that is located in the Social Ministry – that only certain families, certain parents, fathers and mothers can afford this, because there is a self-retaining of 42 €. If you look at the average income in our population, as well as the fact that a father or a mother – depending on who is a visiting parent – has to pay €42 per hour in which he wants to take advantage of this institution – or €30 per hour for the child support, then you can easily calculate that there is a very large group of people who cannot use this! We also know from the institutions that offer this, for example visitor support, that the funds are usually consumed already in the middle of the year, around the summer; and that then many parents, especially fathers, have to wait for months until they get a support in starting their visit to the children. From our point of view, this must not happen, namely, that in Austria a social segregation occurs in this area because of a very low funding system or because of the introduction of self-retaining; so that only those persons can use these very useful facilities which they can afford. I am a mediator myself, I have been dealing regularly with couples who come to me with child, care and right of visit for more than 13 years and try to come to solutions peacefully in such cases. Most of these couples have a real problem when it comes to the question of how to get support for the children. There are youth offices. However, these are in a strange situation because they are at the same time a positioning authority and therefore cannot really provide the support, and they are partly lacking the personnel resources for it. Therefore another appeal to you: If you introduce the child assistance, please so that it is free of contributions for those affected, so that all parents – not only those who can afford it – can make use of it! A second point is youth aid. This is only in Vienna, not in the other federal states. To our question, as you, Mrs Bundesminister, estimate the state of youth aid, you have answered that no further means are provided for the construction and that the funds are sufficient. In our opinion, the aid for young people is an important institution because in Vienna it helps to capture the environment in the case of juvenile crimes and in fact gives the courts an opportunity to find adequate consequences, including this environmental analysis or the social environment. This would, of course, be important not only for Vienna, but also for the other federal states. We are also aware that the Vienna Jugendgerichtshilfe is not your opinion, namely that it would be sufficiently equipped. We therefore ask you and appeal to you to take a look at it again. Finally, the Jugendgerichtshof: You have replied that the Baumgasse is not intended for this and that there is no binding decision to do so. The Jugendgerichtshof is not budgeted, so we assume that it will not come that way. We assume that this government, despite its verbal announcements, but also despite its written announcement in the Government Convention, will not drive this Jugendgerichtshof forward during this period of government. That too is very unfortunate. Especially for young people in our country, who would certainly have deserved a different treatment in the sense of prevention or the first treatment of crimes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72290	Next speaker: Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72311	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the crowd! Yes, Mr Mag. Steinhauser is right – he's not there now and he doesn't listen to me, but maybe you can do it to him – Ah, back there, excuse me! [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Here!]] He's here! You're right, Mr Mag. Steinhauser, it's just in court. Justice is working at the limit, that's right. We all have nothing to do with the fact that we are not getting more resources now, neither can the Minister of Finance; this situation is imposed on us from the outside – as a result of crisis. What are we gonna do now? Should we just let the head hang? – I do not mean our Mr Klubobmann. [[Abg. Head speaks to Abg. Peter Haubner.]] - Should we just give up? - He doesn't hear me at all. [[Cheerfulness in the hall.]] We need to take advantage of the situation! We need to take the opportunity to make justice more efficient, modernising it, simplifying procedures and reducing bureaucracy. Dr. Fichtenbauer! - Isn't he here? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] - Yes? Oh, up there, here he comes. Dr. Fichtenbauer, to the RSa letters: There are no RSa letters throughout Europe, and there will also be no RSa service in Austria. [[Call the FPÖ: Why not?]] Mr Mag. Steinhauser, as regards probation aid: In Bavaria must Procuring assistants care for almost twice as many clients as in Austria. In addition, you have not said the truth, Mr Mag. Steinhauser. , because the parole aid has received 2.7 percent more money in 2009; I can calculate it for you. [[Oh-Rufe at SPÖ and FPÖ]] [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Worm.]] [[Abg. Pendl: Listen, hear!]] At this point I would also like to thank all the judicial officials very much: for the excellent, for the great work. The Austrian jurisdiction is really great in international comparison. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I would like to extend this thanks to our standing representatives, who are sitting here today in the audiences. Thank you! A warm thanks also to my employees in the Federal Ministry of Justice. I have to say that in the last few weeks you really did the highest performance; they really had a lot to do in the framework of the Federal Budgetary Act and they did great things. Thank you. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] One more word on the fees. Justice costs money too; I'm sorry. Twelve years ago we had the last charge increases. - Number one. As number two, I must mention that not all taxpayers should pay, but only those persons who use benefits – and only for these benefits –; the classic areas of legal protection have been excluded anyway. There is also the following: Persons who cannot afford a procedure must pay nothing either; there is still the Institute of Aid. One thing I have to say: It doesn't have anything if justice can't work anymore. That is why, I believe, it is a failure if we pay a little more fees, but justice works for that. I am confident and really hope that soon better times will come again and that we can increase jurisdiction. I hope so – and I hope I still experience it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72448	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72486	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is like all the budget chapters and the general debate: the same Members who want more everywhere complain about the total debt. I've been telling you this for a long time. I know the ritual, and many here know how an opposition argues and how the government groups argue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] However, I would like to say the following: We have had the biggest reduction in the planning site between 2000 and 2006. I don't need to tell you who was in the government at the time; and now I don't want to hear anything on this issue anymore! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Dear colleague Hagen, Legislative, Executive, Jurisdiction: I believe that it is good to us together if we accept and take note of the work of jurisdiction under the rule of law! I think our justice and jurisdiction are working perfectly. Our common thanks are due to them. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I'm not there to criticize the courts! Mrs Minister, thank you very much, you and your staff, up to the judicial guard! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleague, Mr Fichtenbauer, when we agreed to the StPO reform together, Federal Minister Böhmdorfer has promised us all here that we will get very quick planning points. We both know how long he's gone, and we're still waiting for the plans today! There was a lady in between, we know, I don't want to say anything about it. But I would like to say something about what you have said about him wanting to build a prison abroad: In the meantime, justice and politics have managed, and a directive has been transposed or is to be implemented by 2011, Mrs Minister, and then the sanctions within the European Union will be carried out in the home countries! [[Abg. Lausch: But very complicated, Mr Pendl!]] This is an important measure. Long enough has been fought for this! Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying something. Mrs Rechtsminister, here too, my request: We currently have a stand of just over 8 000 in the Austrian prisons. At the time, I have been among those who have massively criticized the reform as well as the housing law. I already said, If you're really sick and not accountable, you're part of the health system and not justice! In the meantime, we have accommodated about 10 percent. You know, we have debated this in the Budget Committee: the figures according to § 21 (1) and according to § 21 (2) of the STGB are rising. If we don't watch – we were always in agreement, Mr Fichtenbauer – then some of the prisons become psychiatric. We don't want that politically. And if we do not want to, we have to look at what we are doing here with this development, so that more and more judges use § 21 (1) or § 21 (2) StGB in the judgments. I think we have to address this area once. He's also the most expensive in justice. I think one should always be put out of dispute, namely a clear commitment to our justice, but also to the question of whether someone is really sick and not accountable. We must work together to find cross-sectoral solutions, because neither the execution nor the execution of the criminal service nor the judicial system can be expected. I think we have work enough in the future. I invite you all, it's an interesting work, it's an important change! Mrs. Minister, good luck! We will help you together in the Committee on Justice and try to get to the positive! Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72574	Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72595	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Pendl said, jurisdiction must be accepted. This is true, especially of those who are individually affected by it – be it condemned, whether it be those who lose a civil trial or something else. These are the ones who have to accept that in any case. But we too, of course, accept the sharing of power. My subjects, which I would like to address here, are already partly from the budget sub-committee. It is about – you have said this recently – that you have also talked to the Minister of Health about the fact that, for 9 000 prisoners in 2007, a total of €63 million has been spent on health care – that is about €7 000 per head – while expenditure for an average citizen has amounted to €3 000, according to an OECD study. That is, health care for an inmate is spent more than twice as much as for a normal citizen. It's a rupture that I don't want to go that way. This means that not only expenditure – as Mr Pendl has suggested the opposition – but also savings must be made. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why I hope this falls on fertile soil. Mrs Bundesminister Bandion-Ortner has already said that she has started discussions in this regard. The individual will then also be added. For example, on a visit to the Stein Justice Centre, I learned that there are own physiotherapists employed there. If a prisoner is prescribed physiotherapy, he will receive his physiotherapy within the next day, the next day. – Where else is it that an Austrian citizen gets a physiotherapy prescribed by his family doctor and starts it the next day? There is an authorisation procedure first, you have to go to the health insurance, letter back and forth, then most of them are booked out. In addition, in all cases of matter,: It must be said that the execution brings security risks to a physiotherapist or similar visits. Of course, there are also arguments that such things are offered directly in the judicial centre, but why... – But there is simply a wrong situation, but not for those who have committed a crime outside society and are favored in a form. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: But in hospital there is also this the next day!]] There is even the so-called tourism in the health field, the criminal tourism, where in one case a procedural remedyer I recommended to me, because the indications were clear – from fingerprints at the crime scene, DNA traces and so on – he said he wanted even higher punishment because his doctor in his home country told him that in Austria a therapy could be made which he could not afford in his home country. – Sad that it is – for both sides! But in itself, a judicial system cannot work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since Mr. A.D. Böhmdorfer and his term of office were also addressed to his idea of a prison building in Romania, I would like to say: That is quite something you can think about further, which you should continue to pursue and pursue. This too is an idea of the opposition, which should bring a saving in the long term. In the last few days, the Minister for the Interior has also raised the question of the threat of burglary. The Federal Minister replied that she could imagine a lot of things about the loss of housing, that this would be possible and that she was ready to talk. But one might also be able to do this about the punishment threats which are fixed in the context of the criminal dimension. The judges should also consider that they say by means of the General or Special Prevention: Now, please, let's go to the upper criminal framework, so that the perpetrators can really feel it. Another concern to me is the fact that many of those who have illegal immigration and in Austria are seeking asylum, which simply make false arguments, false facts, simple and gripping with untruths, and thereby cost the state money – on the one hand, through the procedures that need to be handled, on the other hand, through the basic guarantee granted to them. In this case, we are quite clearly talking about fraud and would think that a crime of asylum fraud could find a way into the criminal code.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72647	Mr Mag. Schönegger is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72668	Mr President. Mrs. Minister of Justice! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Security is also called the continuation and further development of legal protection for the population. “Protection by right” is therefore an absolutely wise and properly chosen motto of your term of office. Correct and fair case law is and remains a foundation pillar, a basis for a functioning and lasting democracy. Yes, it is true that even in the field of justice, the funds are scarce. – The Federal Minister was and will be required to address her plans with realistic figures and will have to do so in the future. Yes, justice policy also needs money to work efficiently. – The Federal Estimate for 2009 and 2010 provides for EUR 1.17 billion in the area of justice. By 2013, this sum will at least rise by € 170 million. On the other hand, it is especially the judicial policy, ladies and gentlemen, which can also be used in the form of a budget which is particularly high. It can become creative if it sets the right priorities of content, especially in the currently difficult economic situation. On the reform of the company and insolvency law: In this respect, correct and important steps have been taken and proper and important steps have been taken. Another reform project is the creation of a modern main and legal remedy. The necessary adjustments to the law on corruption clearly show how much everyone involved is working to improve it permanently. The problem of bankruptcy, for example, is effectively combated with the removal of procedural aid for legal persons. Charges and understandings will be simplified and streamlined in the future. Short judgments and minutes lead to a substantial discharge and thus to the release of resources. This package of measures, ladies and gentlemen, is the right step to relieve and motivate employees in justice. On the topic of planning: For the time being, the 11 011 planning sites could be held by 2010. Savings were made – and this is remarkable – but only in the area of the cabinet. However, the necessary and certainly painful savings from 2010 will be shared among all professional groups in the field of justice, and the respective burden situations will be taken into account. In addition, these savings in the planning area are also intercepted by the optimization offensive already mentioned by me. More flexible administrations, the reduction of bureaucratic barriers, the flexibilisation clause project in the field of judicial institutions: All of this brings, by reducing the jury's courtship to only for most serious crimes, a discharge and, in turn, a release of resources. The action ceilings “protection by law” chosen by Mrs. Federal Minister Bandion-Ortner is not a slogan, but almost at all levels reality. It continues to apply and must apply, and the judicial system must be kept clear from the day-to-day miscarriage. This is the only way to ensure that justice retains the highest possible and necessary acceptance in the population! While Justitia may have exchanged the eyebands against the glasses, the scales and the weight have been preserved and are also preserved for good reason.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72741	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72763	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The minister herself speaks of it, it will be scarce. – It's getting very close, it's getting very tight. ==References====External links== Yes, that house was marked by real optimism. She sprayed that optimism. I think he's turned away from reality in the meantime. The reality is that in the course of this period 170 planning sites are being dismantled and it does not, as it wishes, come to an increase in the size of 440 planning sites. Minus 170 plots! When it comes to justice, it is likely that the judges and prosecutors and the judiciary will say: It won't happen to us anyway! – The day will come when it will actually be saved, and you will experience a cry there, because all that you now announce under the title “Degradation of bureaucracy and efficiency increase” will not be easy to implement. This could be summarized under the concept of administrative simplification. Only: We've heard that for so many years now. And: SPÖ/ÖVP governments had a constitutional majority, a two-thirds majority here in the house until the last National Council election, and therefore one must already ask: So why didn't you make administrative simplification? Now there are new words again, a new expression – my previous speaker also made it when he spoke of an optimization offensive. In any case, we are very skeptical. Justice in particular is an area where internal security is concerned. The fact that you are trying to save massively there is an absolutely wrong signal! We've heard from a previous speaker of the Greens, we've got power. Steinhauser heard the accusation that a whole parliamentary group had no idea of the 2007 detention package; it entered into force in 2008. – I can strongly oppose this, because precisely because we appreciate this and we do not want drug dealers, that child abusers, that murderers will be released just one day earlier, we are strictly opposed to the early arrest of convictions following such crimes! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If one admits that one wants to release early, then please also vote the framework conditions in order to keep the relapse rate as low as possible. Although Mrs Bandion-Ortner objected to the fact that there is less money for the probationists, I fear that there will also be savings there. There is nothing in comparison with Bavaria or any other country, because all of this makes little sense when the relapse rate increases again. These personnel costs are outsourced towards an association, but this will certainly also be reflected in the direction of security in our Republic. I can also say to Mr Steinhauser that it makes little sense for the Financial Penal Code, the §s 35, 37 and 41, so to speak, to bagate and pretend to be nothing at all, because: The State must also have the right to secure its revenue. And so there are replacement sentences – and that with good reason, because they also have a high preventive character. I therefore do not think that these things should be put to the test now. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Is it better for the unemployed to go to prison?- Oh, my God!]] There's also a responsibility. And to the argument, he then becomes unemployed: We'll get empty prisons that you want from the greens, but not us. I do not know how Mr Pendl, who has always been very grateful here, is represented in his office, how he should explain this to colleagues. Maybe he'll say: With you, only 50 posts are mined anyway, 100 would have been much worse! The fact is that no judicial guard post was deleted from 2000 to 2006. – Therefore: Even if you say something else a hundred times, it doesn't become more true! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Worm:... more prisoners! Then you'll figure it out.]] – There are more prisoners when justice and police work well! At least it's best for us to be in prison when criminals are in prison and can't move freely. But if you see that differently, Mrs Colleague, this is your right. According to our conviction, criminals behind the castle and bars belong, and it must be so that the criminals are afraid of the state – and not vice versa. [[OBJECTIVES]] Total: The highest scepticism is that this reduction in staff can make progress. We cannot therefore support this budget chapter from these considerations either.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72858	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72880	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! That was the problem in those times when your people were sitting in the government: [[towards BZÖ and FPÖ]] There was a lot of locked up and locked away, but also locked up, such as Post Offices et cetera. You had to answer for that. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] That's what you had to answer! Locking in, locking away, locking up – that was the foreign exchange at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] €50 million more in the 2009 judicial budget – and that in times of savings budgets; one has to say that – are available for services such as property management, victim protection assistance, victim protection facilities or expert advice as well as increases for BIG rents. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Disc]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Not so evil!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Scheibner.]] – Getting Now You nervous, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner! – Pardon: You are not at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: I'm not nervous! I'd have written you a better speech!]] More financial resources will be made available for the necessary and important tasks to be fulfilled by the judicial system! A particularly important law – which has already been mentioned a few times today – was that 2. Anti-violence law extending the rights of those victims who have become victims of violence in the family. However, there is still a need for repair, and I hope that this will be taken into account tomorrow, when amending the Security Police Act. - That's one. What is also to be said is a change in the family law change law; Mr Scheibner has already mentioned this. For the longer term, there would be changes in the rights of patchwork families. We should also come up with modern and modern regulations. In this connection, I would also like to say that Mrs Gastinger did good work in that regard at the time. But now we must finally act to extend rights for young families, rights for so-called patchwork families. For example, I would like to mention the really highly necessary improvement of the Maintenance Advancement Act so that children do not suffer and it is the case that the State will help earlier before a procedure is concluded, so not only after that. Where I also hope that we will soon come to an end is the new Life Partnership Act, which is to be on our agenda in autumn. It must also be important to everyone who is concerned about equality policy to improve the rights of homosexual partnerships, and we are in Austria, so to speak, at the European level. The European Court of Human Rights has already condemned our country a number of times, especially in relation to our legislation in this area. It is therefore high time that we arrived in Europe. Final demand – this is also an important concern for me as a women's politician –: Before divorce, there should be mandatory legal advice so that women are not pulled over the table in divorces. That would be a necessary measure, but it is often the women who pay for it as a result of divorce. And we don't want to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72969	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e72992	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Wurm, I know that the SPÖ Group is still traumatized from the years 2000 to 2006 that your party was not in the government at one time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] – Let me now take a little note of your remarks here! Mrs Worm, were the judges not independent in the years 2000 to 2006, have they spoken other judgments at that time? [[Abg. May. Worm: They had laws of others!]] - Oh, the laws have changed so much! But somewhere, I think, you've already assumed to the judgeship that they didn't act independently when they were blue-black in the government. [[Abg. May. Worm: I don't put anything! That was another colleague!]] Mrs Bundesminister Bandion-Ortner, let me briefly address your statement that saving 169 sites is feasible. – Dear Mrs. Federal Minister, in the courts, there is already already a gap of 480 planning posts already known, with judges, prosecutors and the law firm staff. There is a staff gap of 500 planning posts as far as the judicial guard is concerned, so there are about 1,000 missing planning posts together! Mrs Bundesminister, it is quite impossible to save another 169 posts in this area. Mrs Minister, don't save your staff, because saving your staff means saving in safety. And we strongly reject this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this House, the opposition parties are to be accused of simply demanding more money, but there will be no proposals for savings from the opposition. Now here are some proposals for savings from my side for the justice department, Mrs Federal Minister, where both hands have been thrown out for years. First: Health care. – The estimated medical treatment in 2009 amounts to approximately €9 million. About €2 million is spent by the Federal Ministry of Justice for addicts, for so-called drug replacement programs. Mrs. Federal Minister, return to the much cheaper Heptodan and stop the expensive and irregular substitution treatment immediately! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Windwood.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, how many drug dogs does justice do? [[Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner: One!]] A single drug dog does justice! This is not long, for according to an article in the “Kurier ” of the 28th century. May 2009, which you may know: ‘Only hen’s dog must be on forced board.’ What is further stated in this article is already a little bit back on your house, because that's what it says: “We are still examining”, says the Ministry of Justice. "The whole thing also causes operating costs. The resources are becoming scarce, we still have to calculate this." And: “Although there is a dog, there is still a need for police support in drug use.” – quoting. Mrs. Federal Minister, do you know what the drug dog costs in the month? 155 €! Ridiculous 155 €! The Federal Minis terium for Justice costs 1 950 € for a drug dependent inmates in the month. Good. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner.]] You say that's not true. That the drug dog costs 155 € a month, but it's true! Yes. Good. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, check the contracts with public hospitals, including the so-called restricted departments! There are contracts with national and private hospitals. An example of this is the hospital of the merciful brothers. With this hospital the Federal Ministry has a contract for eight beds and also pays these eight beds, regardless of whether they are occupied or not. The medical care and medical care will then be added. Secondly, Teur purchase of leisure services. – In the largest judicial institution in Austria, expensive services are purchased in the field of leisure care in the youth performance. We have a drawing teacher, a guitar teacher, a former football professional as a football trainer, a cooking teacher, a table tennis teacher at the Vienna judicial centre. Mrs. Federal Minister, it is no wonder that you have to save on the judicial staff, the courts and the judicial staff when you throw out the money with your full hands. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Federal Minister, remember that in the countries of the European Union, the ratio between the judicial guard and the inmates is on average 1 : 2, i.e. a judicial guard comes to two inmates! In Austria the ratio is 1 : 3. And now you want to save more? So that's almost impossible! In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73126	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73193	Next speaker: Mr Köfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73215	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Savings are never popular, desired by anyone and yet demanded by everyone. And savings, not only in the field of justice, are always a renunciation of something necessary, desirable or already used. With its executive and jurisdiction, the legislative system is one of the cornerstones of our democracy, and at some point loses our people's confidence in justice and our laws, then this democracy is seriously threatened. Therefore, the saving pen must be particularly careful and sensitive in this area. On the whole, the measures put in place to implement the budget are absolutely correct. However, it must also be allowed to make a detailed criticism. For example, I refer to the fee relating to the right of visit in the divorce case. While it is welcome that socially weaker citizens can obtain an exemption through procedural assistance, no one is so truly happy with this court fee in this area. Children have the right to both parents. However, this right is emotionally burdened to want to see his physical child is difficult for both father and mother, and it should not be taxed. It is therefore positive that there are already strong signals from the Ministry of Justice to consider how this sensitive issue can be remedied. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Fortunately, another measure, which would also have to be questioned, has already been a little weakened. I am referring to the RSa letter delivery, which will be deleted in the future. In the future, letters will only be delivered without exception via RSb. - That's so good. It is especially thanks to our colleague Ruth Becher that the letter delivery in rental law matters should now be evaluated again after a year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also particularly welcome that, at the last committee meeting, the Minister of Justice clearly and clearly stated that there will not be any further closures of district courts. Ms Bandion-Ortner, Minister of Justice, disagree with that of your clear statement She was very beneficial of her male predecessor, Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer, who had planned radical closures of district courts, especially in rural areas. Justice and jurisdiction are an essential part of this rule of law. There must therefore also be a clear commitment to those courts located outside of constituencies or major cities, for such courts are probably political, economic, and above all psychological. of great importance to our people. Those who challenge these institutions risk losing their anchorage in the population. As mayor of a district city, I am unmistakably aware that, after Minister Strasser's barrages to the Gendarmerie Posts, Minister Gorbach to the Post Offices and Minister Böhmdorfer to the District Courts, there must not be any further dilution of the infrastructure to the detriment of the rural population. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73294	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73315	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I do not allow the speaking time of our club to be given. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That's an interesting note! By the way: Because before that my humanist expression mainly resulted in a positive reflection, another – I quote Horaz – : Quidquid agis prudenter agas et respice finem. – Whatever you do, do it wisely and remember the end! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we make this principle, I would like to refer once again to the abolition of the self-evident delivery of court documents. It may have been that this was not used or not in Europe, I did not review it, but it was Austrian legal practice. And if this is abolished, one has to adapt to deteriorations that are not proven in individual cases, but are statistically foreseeable. And if this is accepted as a theory, then you also have to apply the provisions of the Delivery Act and think about whether there is a change to be made. I have recently had the opportunity to point out to you, Mrs Minister, a case law which is negative in connection with the provisions of the Act of Delivery. According to the provisions of the Act of delivery, the delivery with the day of deposit shall be deemed to have been made. And now, apart from the otherwise expected house mind of the ordinary citizen, there is indeed the situation that within the time limit a court appointment is to be set, which is not expected of the person to whom it has been posted, and that the time limit is missed, and if so, a failure may occur, which can only be fought by means of a re-establishment request, which at the end of the day does not go through because a judge, for example at the labour court, says: If you don't get the deposited post piece the next day, you're doing a gross negligence, and that's to be attributed to yourself, and I refuse to re-establish! Apart from the fact that such a judicial attitude is actually a scandal, the citizen cannot expect it to be such that a court date will take place within the time limit. That is why we need to improve this by law. If you say that the own-handed delivery is lost, because anyway, even in the case of replacement service or in the case of non-domestic delivery, you have to recognize which problem field is in principle opening up and which in principle calls for improvement. That's what I wanted to bring back to my mind! In addition, the provision of 134 Civil Procedure Regulations, where applicable, also makes it easier to manage in the light of the provisions of the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is important to introduce gers. – To the extent that the invitation that you can be failed on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73379	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73400	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ms. Federal Minister, the planned change in the understanding of those concerned, in particular whether this is done by RSa, RSb or simply writing in the future, has already led to numerous reactions – including medial. Especially during the currently stressed economic situation and the resulting restrictions for the present 2009/2010 budget, savings and the focus on maintaining the important core areas of our Austrian justice are essential. Whether the announced job reduction by 169 people will really only show effects in the promille range, however, remains to be expected. Important and necessary – at least from my point of view – is that despite the planned savings measures, there is no deterioration in police and prosecutor cooperation. The StPO reform in particular led to a strong additional burden on the prosecutor's office. Ladies and gentlemen, let me, however, relativize the criticism of the type of communication that has already been addressed on the basis of a practical example from my close working environment: As mayor of the municipality of Untersiebenbrunn, I am also constantly confronted with a variety of understandings, especially in the case of changes to the land register, i.e. when buying and selling land, mostly in the form of RSa letters. On the basis of a simple, superfluous calculation of the annual costs involved in this field, I would like to illustrate this: In the context of the conversion of the basebook to a database for automation support guidance of the basebook and the cataster, a need of 669,000 registration operations per year was recorded in the project data. A comparison: A RSa letter costs approximately €6.85 per piece. I do not know whether quantity or bulk discounts can still be used by the Republic of Austria. If you multiply that, then you get a total of €4.6 million a year. Only a reduction in this area, with the normal RSb, will result in an approximate transport fee of €2.65, and the cost would be only €1.8 million. This overload bill clearly shows that there is a clear potential for savings through the changeover from RSa to RSb. An electronic delivery is envisaged in the case of the delivery of administrative documents. This conversion would open up even more resources for internal retransmission in the department. Especially within the framework of the Digital Austria platform, work is already being done to transmit RSa and RSb papers electronically. I believe that changing the possibility of the delivery of administrative documents is quite a useful project. However, this will only take place after the evaluation of the effects of the abolition. in the area of rental rights to be discussed to the National Council in one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73455	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73477	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Until 2003, Austria was considered to be a show country when it came to the issue of youth jurisdiction. Until then, we were also in possession of our own Jugendgerichtshof. The former Minister of Justice, Böhmdorfer, then broke it down. [[call to the FPÖ.]] The Jugendgerichtshof has not only brought numerous important experiences in the fight against youth crime, but has also created European top standards and, as has already been said, has been regarded as a demonstration court. The criteria that have been successful were, among other things, an extremely low decline rate through development-related dealings with young people, a preparation also for professional life and a return and preparation for a non-violent life. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's all there is now? Interesting!]] The government programme provides for a centre for juvenile criminals. On page 110 of the government programme, I quote: "As an external office of the National Criminal Court, a new court building is to be built in Vienna with the appropriate judicial body to increase the number of detentions. This shall apply, inter alia, to the purposes of youth jurisdiction and the enforcement of the youth penalty.’ [[Abg. Scheibner: Is this even coming? Is that financed? Do you have the budget for that, too?]] Of course, the attempts at the restoration of this youth jurisdiction are welcome. However, it must also be ensured that the old criteria are taken over. A youth competence centre is essential. Not only judges, but above all psychologists, prosecutors, youth welfare and judges have been the key to success. Mrs Bandion-Ortner, I urge you to implement as soon as possible the idea contained in the government programme of the renewal of youth jurisdiction. The new construction of a youth competence centre could ensure the resocialisation and reduction of youth crime. This, in turn, also means ensuring the future of our youth. With the support of our website in the implementation of this project, you can definitely expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73537	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73558	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! In conclusion, I can accept briefly those people who are among the weakest in society, namely those who are in charge of justice. There is a real importance for the body in the judicial budget with a sufficient dosage of those who carry the board of directors. And it is gratifying that despite the tight budgetary situation for the More money can be made available to the institutions' associations than before. The funds rise from 26 million to 28 million. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With a non-smiling eye, however, we see that the fees for the dispute procedure are now also being beaten in the board of experts. But unfortunately we must take this into account, because, as we know, the good functioning depends on adequate budgeting and thus on sufficient revenue, Mrs Federal Minister. I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity to thank sincerely all those who have the difficult task of working for those who are in charge of it, both voluntarily and in principle, for they support the weakest of our society. In this sense, I wish you every success! Mrs Federal Minister, thank you for the good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73606	No further words are available. This also deals with the field of justice. We'll start tomorrow, 29. May 2009, 9 a.m. with the chapter Inners. I'm interrupting the meeting. [[18:39:57]] [[The meeting would be held on Thursday, 28 May. May 2009, at 6.40 p.m. and on Friday, 29 May 2009. On 9 May 2009, continued at 9 a.m.]] [[09:00:56]] Continued the meeting: Friday, 29. May 2009, 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73665	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll take the interrupted 23. National Council meeting again. On today's day, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Haberzettl, Praßl, Gartelgruber, Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz from 2 p.m., see p. 925.]] We continue with the budget consultation. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73701	A block-time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ was decided for today’s meeting day, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 108 minutes, FPÖ 96 minutes as well as BZÖ and greens per 84 minutes. The design of the debates is known. [[09:01:37]] Internals UG 11: Internals
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73731	We now come to the negotiation of the Inner part, Division 11. The first is Mr Vilimsky's speech with a desired speaking time of 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73759	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! As part of the budgetary discussions on the Internal Chapter, I can inform you of the situation of the local police, which is symptomatic. It is symptomatic of the problems we face. The report refers to the 16th century. May 2009, the criminal accusation is the commercial theft and the theft as part of a criminal association. Trigon Dimitri and Korneev Oleg, two people from Moldova, were accused. These two citizens have an axe, flashlights, side cutters, break-in tools, knives, storm hoods to cover the face, and where continued and so continued with them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] When they were picked up, they told the police: No, no, that's not ours, and by the way, we demand asylum! – These two people have, of course, been brought to Traiskirchen, where they spend their future on asylum seekers’ status at our expense, although they are obviously burglars. It is precisely this symptomatic misunderstanding in connection with Moldovans, Georgians, Ukrainians who come to us and go on invading tours here, that has already been described, not in our party newspaper, but in broad and across the local media landscape. For example, I think that Mr Werner Grotte – after all, author and editor of the “Wiener Zeitung”, the official publishing body of the Republic of Austria – is entitled “Vienna: A city is being looted out” writes: “The main blame for the current disaster is criminalists – behind them –,” he writes, “the disappearance of border controls since the Schengen extension: Open borders promote unimpeded (theft) transport as well as the rapid return of displaced offenders, such as Romanians, who, in addition to Georgians and Moldovans, are currently putting the bulk of burglars in eastern Austria. A significant Austrian share in the criminal situation has only been found for years in the area of financial and economic crimes.” – So far, so good! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The head of the Vienna Foreign Police, Mr. Wilfried Kovarnik, also clearly writes that “many foreign offenders are successfully resisting deportation with tricks such as shaming, false papers, repeated asylum applications or hunger strikes – often over many years”. And then, when exactly to this causa by the Greens a parliamentary question was started and the head of the Vienna foreign police was accused of being racist, he stopped working. [[Abg. May. Korun: Where's that? They say it's wrong!]] – And that is exactly what shows me where the problem, Mrs Korun, is at home in security policy, namely in your policy, that you are polemizing and rushing towards everyone who calls the problems by name in an incredible way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Fekter, I agree to give you my personal conclusion from all these misunderstandings as part of the budget consultation. I would like to warn you clearly about the red-green impact on security policy, and I would also like to give you the following advice: If, next time, you are approached by MP fungus in the committee in such an incredible way, then it is good that you do not leave the committee, but instead offer this Mr Pilz the forehead, for in reality it is an order to be criticized by a Mr Pilz – a Mr Pilz, who has never stood aside from the police in his life, but always on the side of the others. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] Mrs Bundesminister, do not let yourself be driven by this unwholesome red-green influence! If you are rightly calling for more severe punishments for burglars, then it can't be that the SPÖ says: No, we don't need to do that. There's no need for burglars to be punished more! – This is exactly the wrong policy that you have documented for many years and decades. Of course it is also important to work on increasing the awareness rate – no question! – but stricter penalties have a general preventative character that cannot be disregarded. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us come to the Green Council of Human Rights, which is constantly called for by the Greens, which leads to real problems for the police. I am a lot on my way to the local guardrooms, police inspections, and you believe your eyes and you don't trust your ears when you visit a guard room, where there are police guard cells, and then you talk to the police, and you insist that the Human Rights Advisory Board is always very quick and quick when arrested people are advised about maximizing their rights. And the Human Rights Advisory Council is marching past the dilapidated watchrooms, into the arrestant area, looking to see if there's everything in order, whether it actually has a three-star or four-star hotel character, and then one hears that the arrestants can choose from under five menus what they would like, and the police can buy the liver cheeses for their own money. – This is exactly the policy of the Greens and the SPÖ, which is a bad one and which you also have to offer the forehead! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Federal Minister, I allow myself to advise you to seek the dialogue, the dialogue with the opposition party, with the Freedom Party, I agree that there are interesting quantities of cut. [[Abg. Oils: After all!]] [[Abg. Oillingers: (shown across his cheek) cut volume!]] I think about Vienna, where the Wiener FPÖ demands a security guard and the ÖVP roughly equal the city guard. – Why should it not be possible to make some progress here in Vienna, for example, to establish a non-socialistic security model and to ensure that Vienna finally has security? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not only Vienna, where one could establish these non-socialistic security models, I think of the Burgenland, I think of the Styria, and even in Salzburg it is not God-given that a woman Burgstaller is running a policy there, through which the crime rates also rise strongly. – This is something we want to give a sharp and rough rejection. In the event that there is today a distrust request against the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs for the vote, I would like to say that this mistrust request has been raised by a person who at least I do not know anyone who still gives this person the confidence: from a Mr Stadler and from a group that itself drives up the criminal statistics. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think that is a choice of words, as it is used by this group, which today will make the request for distrust, where one calls to the Minister of the State, she may disappear into the gravel pit, a choice of words that is inflated. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hörl.]] And I think without using the words of Mr Faul, he says what the silent majority of this House has been thinking for a long time. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mrs Fekter, you do not have our full confidence, you can still work on it, but you do not have our distrust either. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bussi, Bussi, Bussi!]] In this sense – Mr Westenthaler, you yourself are one of those cases that create a screw-up of criminal statistics – I can wish – I really want it! – that this unwholesome green-red influence on security policy disappears and is replaced by non-socialist models. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: After a while! Wait!]] If it succeeds in establishing a mayor's street in Vienna, I can guarantee that the crime rate will go down massively, towards zero. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73943	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Korun to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the provisions: In 2 minutes, the facts to be corrected and then the correction must be made.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e73971	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Member Vilimsky claimed that the Greens had the head of the Vienna foreign police force Dr. Kavarnik is called racist. – That is false and wrong! Rather, we have criticized Dr. Kovarnik for operating with figures in press conferences, which are not actually collected at all – see my later speech on the subject. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e74000	Mr Kößl is now speaking with a desired speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e74021	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to my previous speaker that he has really met with the presentation of the person Pilz. But now to today's budget debate on internal affairs. Mrs Bundesminister, the 2009 and 2010 budgets show a very good negotiation result! Perhaps it is not wrong to talk and discuss in a budget debate about the increased crime rates among the invading criminals in Vienna, but we must be aware that crime in Europe has increased in general and continues to rise, and Austria – at the very beginning of Europe, today in the heart of Europe – is not an island of the Blessed. I would also like to thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for thinking together with the police officers about how we can cope with this situation. The actions started have had a sense, have shown that you are on the right path here to meet this situation. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Despite this increased burglary, Austria is still one of the safest countries in the world, and we will do everything we can – I am convinced of the commitment of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs and the good work of the police – that we will continue to achieve this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In any event, this budget guarantees security for the population in Austria, and I am also sure that this budget increase will ensure that the police can consistently take action against crime. I am also grateful to Federal Minister and Vice-Cancecian Pröll for having received a budget increase together with the educational resort, which allows for a staff increase. And with this increase in staff, it will also be possible to counter crime accordingly. 1 000 additional new additions per year, thus replacing pension and additional staff for the executive service, and it is possible to implement the flexi- and karenz-pool. In 2009, 105 posts were created in the field of asylum – this is also an important contribution to reducing the backpack there and speeding up asylum procedures, which of course is a major concern of us. However, this also means that there is the possibility of carrying out the second tranche of the helicopter replacement, that the digital radio can be used completely and comprehensively, that the renewal of the fleet can continue, that the technical equipment, especially in the IT field, can also be forced, that € 3.7 million can be given to service clothing and personal equipment of executive officers, and that construction measures at 53 police stations are also secure. That is to say, with this budget for expenditure on property and personnel, it is possible to meet crime successfully. We can strengthen the police services in the conurbation rooms and along the main traffic veins so much that we are putting a sign in particular in the area of burglary crime. Today, 267 officials will be expelled for Vienna, 125 next year, and 450 who will be taken in this year are also available for executive foreign service and for the security of the population in 2011. But that also means that we have secured the means of DNA trace evaluation in the next few years in particular to combat crime. It is important to use funds specifically in this area because the evidence is becoming increasingly important. And I would like to mention that there are enormous successes in this context: 1 128 perpetrator identifications with direct allocations to 1 365 crimes could be achieved with these DNA evaluations, 605 serial crimes could be resolved. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The successful path in the field of security can be continued with this budget. I am sure that with this great commitment of our Mrs. Federal Ministers and with the great commitment and great commitment of the police officers, it will be possible that Austria will continue to be in the forefront of security worldwide.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e74086	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler with a desired speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e74107	Madam President. High house! I would like to begin by presenting a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Stadler, Bucher, which will be distributed on the basis of its size. I would like to introduce him as a cursor, he has ten points on the content: First: Introduction of border controls along the Austrian border with Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, including Germany and Italy, if necessary. Secondly, A clear one. No to the proposed asylum directive and the request to the Federal Government to prevent it too. Thirdly, To prepare personnel plans and the Federal Financial Framework Laws 2009 to 2012 and 2010 to 2013 that an increase of the police can be foreseen in Austria by 5,000 police officers, of which 1,500 for Vienna. Fourth: Re-introduction of the municipal security guards and promotion of the municipalities. Fifth, you open a bottle Installation of private facilities for housing security and burglary prevention and a funding programme of € 100 million for this purpose. Sixteenths: Setting up a ‘Special Commission on Foreign Crime’ with the focus on ‘Ethnocrime’ in order to be able to counteract this. Seventeenths: Introduction of legislative proposals to the National Council so that hate preachers, “problem gurus” and terrorist suspects can be more quickly denied entry into Austria. Eighth: Abolition of the already granted citizenship to foreigners who have become resident and have been punished by us, in the case of criminal proceedings with more than one year of judicial conviction or several criminal convictions as a mandatory legal order. Nineteenths: Negotiations with the main countries of origin of criminals in order to ensure the execution of penalties in their home countries. Tenths: Maintaining the assistance of the Federal Force, but in addition improving by the use of the Military Force & Military Police Command. I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Fekter, you have truly earned better intellectually better defenders than Mr Vilimsky. But even an intellectually better-informed defender would not manage to turn your negative list to the contrary. The failure in your department is so serious and obvious that no defense was able to make a positive balance from it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I know, Minister, that you are not solely responsible for this. Of course, your predecessor, Strasser, is a chief responsible person – even your coalition partner is open to this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] - I'm talking about your coalition partner now. Your coalition partner says on every occasion: Strasser’s police reform is primarily responsible for the current development of the crime rate. – I say: Yes, it is! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Their predecessor, now the head of state in Tyrol, is responsible for the fact that the Schengen border has been completely overlaid and quickly reduced, although it was clear that criminality control in the countries in the neighbourhood of Austria is not guaranteed at all. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a nonsense!]] – Of course, that’s true! [[Abg. Rädler: Who was in the government?- Oh, my God!]] Excuse me, but now I really have to correct you. That's even got it. Her coalition partner said two days ago at a panel discussion at the Landesstudio Niederösterreich des ORF. I'm talking about your coalition partner because you're saying "unsense." Please, take care of each other. What Mr Swoboda said about Mr Strasser is true. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And Mr. Strasser was completely crushed there and nodded to it. It doesn't change anything. The Federal Minister has so far put his head in the sand and has done nothing! - No! [[Abg. Rädler: There you were already in the government!]] [[Abg. Kößl: The statements of Swoboda...!]] Once I quote Swoboda, Swoboda is actually capable of quoting, that's the difference, because otherwise I don't quote him at all. Now we all know – even the Austrian People's Party must have overcome this – that the development of crime in this country has become unbearable. We have increases between 25.8 and 60 per cent in this country at house collapses and in housing collapses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] Did you notice that? Have you noticed that even police officers are being broken in? Not only was the handbag of the minister – I don't want to talk about – stolen, but now it's also being broken into by police chiefs. The promis is broken in. [[Abg. Kößl: Have you already been broken in?]] These are some of your voters in the “Döblinger Regimenters”, ladies and gentlemen. They already have to organize safety themselves, because your minister is no longer able to guarantee security in that country. And what does Mrs. Fekter do? - She's inexistent. You don't hear from her. You don't see anything about her. [[Abg. Kößl: Then sleep always!]] The crime rate is not an issue for the Minister of Women, it does not take any action against it. In Wolfsberg, an 82-year-old woman is robbed of her house. The police say it's just because the thieves can get over the border right away. – It is good to tighten up the criminal framework, Mrs. Federal Minister, but first you must have the perpetrators, that is the decisive one, then you can also have the perpetrators condemned. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Apart from that, the increase in the criminal framework does not fall within your jurisdiction, which is the case of the Minister of Justice. So take care of the things that are done in your resort, in the interior resort! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] There's a wide field of activity. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to spare you all this crime development, the dramatic cases, women being beaten down with a vase, are being robbed in Pöchlarn, numerous cases along the border, people who have already been robbed four times – four times! These are not BZÖ voters, but they are simply people who have the fate to live at the border where you have opened the border and no longer want to control it! Who must live with it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] The only one who acts then – that is not the woman's Minister of the Interior, although she is responsible – is the Federal Chancellor. He goes to Brussels and says he has to hold a wake-up call in Brussels. . As if Brussels were responsible. High house! The Federal Chancellor should have awakened the Minister of the Interior – not Brussels is responsible for fighting crime in Austria. This is only an original Austrian task, which the responsible Minister of the Interior has not yet fulfilled, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kößl: This is a distortion of the facts!]] -No, that's not a distortion! She puts her head in the sand and is inexistent. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Today's headline – I don't know if you've read it; I quote: “Dangerous bottleneck with the police”. [[Abg. Kößl: If you've read it through, that's nothing!]] And on top of that: “When it comes to Sundays and public holidays in Vienna, it becomes “close” by the police because of lack of reserves. - Quote. [[Abg. Kößl: 450 officials are in Vienna!]] Nothing you have in Vienna. If you use officials in Vienna, they will withdraw from the federal states, but they will also be needed. In Vienna you don't have any officials at all at all! [[Abg. That's not true!]] This is the reality because you have slept for over a year! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These officials are still not available to you. You can't send police students into a bet with culprits, that's nonsense! [[Abg. That's not true! This is a distortion of the situation!]] It turned out that the perpetrators at the Sikh massacre in Sikh-Tempel are asylumers who have had to be expelled for years, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then it turns out... – Show it again! [[Abg. Petzner shows a newspaper article.]] The Austrian People's Party does not know what a Sikh temple is, I like to admit that. But, ladies and gentlemen, what illegal asylum seekers are, you should know that now; illegal asylum seekers who have long been expelled from this country. The Minister responsible and responsible for the Interior does not know each other! The Minister of the Interior does not even come up with the scandals in her own place: neither in the case of Mensdorff-Pouilly nor in the activities of Mr. Ex's Minister of the Interior, who today, with private companies – that will fly you neither well around the ears – I guarantee you today – does private peak services – everything with the tolerance of the resort! At the Meinl Bank, for example – with your own friends! – he provides peak services for private! – In the resort no topic! There is an office for internal affairs, but this is also inexistent here, because this is a former minister. - That's how it goes. The development of claims for residence rights: a single failure of the interior area, as is now apparent; a complete misdevelopment. Or the Asylum Directive: The competent minister in the Council acts as an inconsistency. She could have stayed at home just as well. Parliament's decision is critical. – The Asylum Directive is critical. Then red and black dispute, who in the EU Parliament voted against it and who voted against it. But the competent minister, who could have prevented all of this, has been silent in the Council. [[Abg. That's good!]] Although she has looked at critically three, no one has noticed that, ladies and gentlemen! Only, Mrs. Federal Minister, will we be able to take a critical look at it. You don't pay for it, it's not your place of business. As Head of Division – admittedly, in one of the most difficult areas of this Republic – you would have to do other tasks for public security than you do. [[Abg. Kößl: You distort the facts!]] You would have other tasks than looking at critically three and ensuring that nothing happened to your party friend Mensdorff-Pouilly and Strasser. That's not your job! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, the request for distrust is more than justified. – Faith You me, we don't loosen up with the mistrust request. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] No, no, no, Don't get upset! You know exactly that we are using the instrument of mistrust very carefully and very well-informed. We have already said to Mrs Fekter 14 days ago that if she does not immediately put on the table a programme with which she is fighting crime, she will have this mistrust request. The Minister had 14 days, and she has not developed any idea to this day, ladies and gentlemen! That's the problem! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter is in a conversation – standing next to the government bank.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: She doesn't even listen!]] Mrs Fekter was not able to put a programme on the table within 14 days with which she wants to be the master of crime in that country. That means she's overwhelmed. Don't get your own minister out of this overload, from this activity that she obviously didn't grow! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Look, there's no such thing as inconsistency. Now put your heads together and say – late, but still –: Now we need to quickly develop a program! – Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Minister is overburdened. Redeem your own minister, agree to the request for distrust so that your minister, whom she has not grown up, will be redeemed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And the summit of their party-political view of the office was that the tow scandal in Salzburg had to be quickly concealed because of the elections. A couple drags 1,000 illegal Turks into this country – and what does the minister have to do? Instead of ensuring that this comes to the public, it has concealed it so that the elections are not affected negatively. – This is ÖVP department management, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. That's all right!]] In one point the SPÖ is right: You, Mrs Fekter, are actually misusing the interior area for party policy purposes, but not for the manufacture of public security. And that is why the motion of censure is more than justified! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] The Minister for the Interior is the responsible head of the department. It is not easy to steal from the responsibility of the department by saying: My God, the poor woman interior minister, she will be defended by Vilimsky! – You know very well that the Austrian population is suffering from the current security problem! You know very well that the interior is a single snake pit, where it is only about the distribution of posts between red and black, but no one is thinking about how to create public security and how to become lord of crime development! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You know very well that the Austrians are the “runners”. [[Abg. Kößl: You know very well that what you say is not right! This is a populist...!]] You know very well that the only way to become the Lord is to have additional police officers and additional willingness to cross-border controls, especially when leaving because a certain tourist class regularly goes out more packed than it comes in. [[Abg. Kößl: You know exactly that your statements are not correct, but!]] That is the problem: that you do not control, but ignore it to this day. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Kößl: You will not be chosen!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This request for distrust is therefore justified. But I'm not so naïve that I think you'll agree today, but believe me, that's not the first Minister of the Interior and not the first Minister of the Interior I've taken to the visor. [[Abg. Vilimsky: To believe Stadler is always difficult!]] Believe me that I will not leave this Minister of the Interior alone until she has put on the table a credible programme with which she wants to fight crime effectively in this country and not only care about whether the Austrian People's Party is doing well!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e74555	The motion for a resolution tabled was presented in its cornerstones and is under negotiation. I'll have him distributed due to his length. The request for distrust in accordance with § 55 GOG has also been properly filed and is under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for Distrust am. § 55 GOG-NR of Deputies Mag. Stadler, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior In the course of the debate on the report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template (111 d.e._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2009 (Federal Finance Act 2009 – BFG 2009) together with investments (200 d.B.) ==References== National Council meeting The Members who have been signed are as follows: Request: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for the Interior is hereby appointed as a member of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. 74 para. 1 B-VG, by express resolution of the National Council, does not give rise to confidence.’
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e74720	Mrs Lueger's next speech. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e74741	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It should be noted positively that the budget for asylum and xenophobia has been increased – on the one hand, by extending the EU support for the Refugee or Integration Fund, on the other hand by means of basic services. According to a statistics from the Federal Ministry of the Interior – as of January 2009 – the number of applications has increased from 1,113 in the previous year to 1,222, but is still below the value of 2006. I am convinced that those people who need asylum should also receive it, because the right to asylum is a human right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, it is deplorable to try to spread untruths to someone seeking asylum, to face someone who is unemployed, and simply to spread untruths. There is always an attempt to split the social world into two parts – the “we” and “the others”. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (a daily) Mrs. Minister, have you read?]] “The others” are always subjected to bad motives because of their course, while the “we”, who are always the good, are constantly threatened by “the others”. They are constantly accusing proverbs, inventing facts and trying to break the unwritten rules of democracy. I would like to underline this with a quote that I am now reading: They are called ‘asylants’, a good thing. The only problem is that many of us who are supposed to be asylumers are very many – what are “anxious asylum seekers”? – “In fact, professional criminals or people who find it more comfortable with us than in their home country. They deceive persecution and collect money from us”. - Quote. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is no contribution to a common solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] You're trying to polarize, and you're hot! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All people who live in Austria and have found their food point here have a claim to be protected from crime. In the government programme, the Federal Government is also committed to providing the best possible support to the police. Social peace is the foundation for internal security. However, safety as a whole does not only concern police and justice, but begins with school, family, social, economic and labour market policies. And that this must be something worth it, both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior have assured her budget discussions. Security and crime control must be the top priority. For internal security, €234 billion will be made available in 2009, which is about 100 million more. Half of the Ministry’s expenditure is due to the personnel costs of the security executive – and this increase in public employment is to be welcomed in principle in times of economic crisis. Mrs Fekter, you assured us of a plus of 1,000 officials regarding the increase in staff at the Executive, of which 450 will be used in Vienna. But since these 1,000 officials will only be there in a few years, I can only stick to my request, which I have already made in the general debate: We need an additional 1,000 police officers in Vienna! The fact that we have a personal passport shows that the police have a high number of hours of overtime. Mrs. Minister, you said in the preliminary discussions that you did not find it okay that parents who can go part-time have the opportunity to reduce to 39 hours. They are convinced that this will be shared by the team and that the police work is actually vulnerable because it means de-olidarization. I can't share your assessment and I see it as a kind of help cry from the police. As the timetables do not last even a week due to additional tasks such as deputies, demos, sporting events and priority actions, I understand the method chosen. The situation has become so severe that sometimes the minimum standard can be kept at night only if police officers who have been on day duty still have a night shift. This means additional money for overtime, but no planning for family and leisure time. Overtired police officers who provide additional services can get into life-threatening situations. It is our task to ensure that the professional environment from training to career planning has the appropriate framework conditions for the police. It does not use anything to show only plausibly what is not all right. Those who now call for the loudest have taken responsibility for the destruction. We are called to find solutions. In conclusion, I would like to draw up my request: We urgently need 1,000 police officers in Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e74829	Mr Pilz has now come to speak. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e74856	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! First – because it is essential – to the budget itself. Mrs Fekter, I would like to point out to you: Since 2003, there have been internal warnings from the budget department of the presidential section, which you have just as much as I do. I quote from one of these warnings of your own presidential section: Information for Federal Ministers, Budget Projects Ministry of Finance, Security Executive: If this budget is now decided in this way, then it can be expected – since 2003 these warnings from the presidential section have been issued every year; I quote from the warning to the Minister of the Interior – rapid rapid rapid and serious increase in crime as a direct result of reduced preventive and repressive tasks, especially as experience has shown potentially criminally that clients immediately react to security deficits. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: 2003?]] This is directly reflected in the education rate in particular. - Quote. This is in the warning papers from the presidential section to three ministers of the ÖVP, including Mrs. Dr. Fekter. Second, next warning: Intervention periods are extended for several hours. This means that citizens seeking help, especially in emergency situations, do not have the executive either because otherwise already blocked by official acts, or reached far too late, which can lead to increasingly inevitable, at least fatal consequences, such as late arrival in family disputes with the corresponding potential for violence. - Quote. Mrs. Dr. Fekter, that's three ÖVP Ministers. They have all been pointed out that, due to too few police intervention forces, death consequences can even be expected, not only in Vienna. You didn't do anything! They further discouraged the criminal police, broke down the structures, dismantled the personnel, and had only one in their minds: the black party book, but not the public security. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Among three ministers of the ÖVP, which you belong to, Vienna has become the European capital of burglary theft. They bear personal responsibility for this. That is why a request for distrust is a matter of course. Since we cannot really do something with the explanatory statement of the BZÖ, we allow ourselves to present today, for reasons of parliamentary seriality, a motion of our own. Alev Korun will explain this mistrust in many points in detail. Now for the second. 28. October 2008 – I quote –: "College Graf has distanced himself. In his work here in Parliament, Mr Graf never gave a similar idea or provided an opportunity to suspect that he would share these ideas. We therefore accept the FPÖ’s proposal to nominate Mr Graf for the office of the Third President, although we will observe very carefully how he will deal with it.” – According to Maria Fekter, on 28 March. October 2008 here in the house. [[Abg. Is it not possible for you to speak to the budget?- Oh, my God!]] Ms. Dr. Fekter, no later than since you were Minister of the Interior, you need to know the constitutional reports on the "Olympia" citizenship. A number of constitutional reports are available to you, and I agree to quote from a single constitutional protection report the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism: [[Abg. Kößl: What does this have to do with the budget?]] Information to the Federal Minister’s Cabinet in the House “Concert: Wiener Akademische Burschenschaft Olympia; Song evening with German right-wing extremist Michael Müller on 25.01.2003; Reference: Order of the KBM from the day before. ‘BAT pages refer to the above subject matter and refer to the following information:... Michael Müller... according to information from the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection/Germany (BfV) it is a German songmaker of the mainly song evenings associated with NPD events. The song, “With six million Jews, the fun...” is, however, only spread in a very small circle of family members, making executive measures for the German BfV much more difficult.” Then the BAT director goes into detail that this very small circle belongs to the "Olympia" of Dr. Graf, and continues: The association Akademische Burschenschaft “Olympia” is registered in the Office for Association, Assembly and Media Law Affairs of the Federal Police Directorate in Vienna. The "Olympia" is under constant observation by the State Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism Vienna. Then what is to be done is done: ‘Sending a representative of the authority... with the task of directing the administrative orders... directly on the spot. KRB – criminal officials – “... are attached to support. The head of the LVT Vienna, HR Mag. BACHINGER, is present in the office. 2. Send of 2 criminal officials to the event of the academic Burschenschaft OLYMPIA with the order of illegal acts in particular crimes and crimes according to the criminal code or law. to implement the Prohibition Act without delay and to implement it accordingly in accordance with the laws. 3rd. Commanding 100 security guards with the order: Ensuring the locality and prevention of conflicts. 4. Sending the DOCU Group to documentation. 5. Keeping the security guard reserve in place in order to make all necessary reinforcements.’ So, what happened? – This has been discussed and discussed in the cabinet. The cabinet has given an order to protect the Constitution. This order, which was logged by Dr. Polli by the BAT, is in an internal mail between the Cabinet and the Protection of Constitution: ‘More measures 6) The BAT of the BPD-Vienna – the Federal Police Directorate – “will provide a presentation of the activities of the current civil society in order to examine further steps towards the initiation of an association resolution process.” Now we have the following: constant observation by the Constitutional Protection, the urgent suspicion that the "Olympia" is an organization subject to the Prohibition Law, permanent reports of constitutional protection and the Cabinet ordered the preparation of an association resolution procedure of the right-wing extreme Burschenschaft "Olympia". What happened then? – Then there has been a massive intervention by the Freedom Party to prevent it from coming to a close. Then the following happened – and that is also documented –: It was politically enforced by the FPÖ, and some liberals have even boasted that neither the Constitutional Protection nor the Ministry of the Interior were allowed to do something against civil servants from 2003. From then on, the far right burs were under the protection of the black and blue coalition government. Now, Mrs Fekter, we Members of the Green Group have a simple wish, a simple wish: Send to the National Council all the reports of the constitutional protection of the right-wing extremity "Olympia" and the activity of Dr. Martin Graf in just this guyhood before! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The National Council has the right to be informed about this. We want to know who President Dr. Graf really is in the eyes of the Ministry of the Interior and the Constitutional Protection. We have enough of it to suppress this information by three ministers of the ÖVP. Place the Count's Act, present the BAT Act of the President of the House, the Internal Committee and the Austrian National Council! We want to know what we really are in the area of constitutional protection with Dr. Graf. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I find it difficult to imagine that, with the exception of the Members of the Liberal Party, there are Members of this House who do not agree to this request, because it is our obligation that we as the Austrian National Council, as a result of the official documents of the Ministry of the Interior, take a picture of who, as the third President of the National Council, is allowed to lead to the damage of the status of the Republic of Austria and to the damage to Parliament's reputation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to point out to you why the "Olympia" citizenship was not to be dissolved, why the protection of the Constitution was not allowed to write further reports and why the citizens were protected. I have an e-mail from the cabinet employee Claudia Wallner, 17th century. September 2002 to Minister of Interior Ernst Strasser and Chief of Cabinet Christoph Ulmer, subject: Constitutional Protection Report, Important: High. The text is very short: Oh, dearer seriously! The Constitutional Protection Report has just been put into the BMI-internal intranet after consultation with the FPÖ. Greetings, Claudia [[Abg. Oils: Super!]] That's how it looked! The Constitutional Protection Report with the points on the "Olympia" Burschenship was presented to the Freedom Party for censorship only before publication, and after everything had been removed about "Olympia" and other right-wing organisations, he was allowed to be published with the consent of FPÖ. [[Abg. Kößl: This is a conscious misrepresentation!]] Mrs Fekter, I ask you to clarify this too! That is why I put forward a second motion for a resolution because we want to know whether the MEPs of the ÖVP still feel committed to the liberals and to Dr Graf. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Robber ladder!]] The proposal is very short and reads as follows: motion for a resolution by Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mr Pilz, Mr Gleich, Mr Pössel and Mr De Clercq, on measures based on the unbearable statements made by Mr Glavisch-Piesczek. President of the National Council The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to take all necessary measures to ensure that Austria's reputation is based on the unbearable statements of the 3. National Council President Dr. Martin Graf, who from the National Council's point of view should lead to his immediate resignation, does not take any further damage. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Political censorship, that's what the Lord Pilz wants!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have called for a vote on this request, and there will also be a nameable vote. Of course, the Green Club Members will vote in favour, and I also assume that the SPÖ Members will vote in favour of this request. [[Abg. Street: There is only one Rules of Procedure!]] The decisive thing about the majority is how the representatives of the Austrian People's Party will behave. Do you think you're serious about your withdrawal requests? You will also vote in the National Council if it concerns Your vote goes to this request, or do you continue to protect Dr Graf and the FPÖ from the resignation, the long-needed resignation of the Third President of the National Council? We will not force the withdrawal of the House by a majority of the House today, but we have the opportunity, for the first time, to say clearly, ladies and gentlemen, not just the FPÖ, but the entire Austrian and international public: The National Council, at least its majority, wants this resignation. We do not accept that for the first time since 1945 a politician who brings with him everything that disqualifies him for the leadership of this office from anti-Semitism to right-wing extremism remains president. [[Abg. Kößl: Think about your statements!]] We will see whether the National Council, in its large majority today, is able to send a clear signal here. And that's why I'm asking you to: Voices All of you personally today, so that Martin Graf can relinquish his position as the third president of this National Council and restore the reputation of the Austrian Parliament and politics! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e75068	The two motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e75353	Mr Klubobmann's head now comes up with a five-minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e75374	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no question at all, we face enormous challenges in security policy. Austria, Europe, even one can say the whole world is facing the phenomenon of massive internationalization of crime, a globalisation of crime. It's interesting when the BZÖ solves this problem in closing borders – yes, yes! – trying to find in the recognition of citizenship. [[Abg. Petzner: Checks!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This cannot be the way we want to meet an internationalization of crime. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Apart from that, you are linking this with the opening of borders, with the extension of the Schengen area. I tell you, since the enlargement of the Schengen area, crime has fallen by 3.6% last year and has not increased! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: That's incredible!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] And you'll all say seriously that it would be beautiful to see these statistics. Yes, do you really want to say that 30,000 officials who make inputs into these statistics are corrupt, that they deliberately make wrong inputs? This is an attack on the civil service in the executive, which must be turned to the sharpest! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, there are also serious approaches to solving this problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] The EIA approaches to solving the problem are a clear international network, a stronger networking of police work. A solution according to the model of the ÖVP means that we extend the assistance of the German army at the borders, solution à la ÖVP means that we will use 1,000 additional police officers to fight the crime. A solution approach à la ÖVP means that since 2000 we have either created or at least renewed over 500 police inspections in this country, and a solution à la ÖVP means that we will assign more than 2,000 vehicles this year alone and will employ eight new police helicopters. – These are solutions from ÖVP’s internal ministers to combat this problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are facing a serious security challenge. And here you go from the BZÖ and also from the Greens and question the Minister of the Interior who has just started these measures to improve the fight against crime?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen! Maria Fekter is the very personification of a successful security policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I repeat it again, because you seem to like it so well: Maria Fekter is for us the personification of a highly successful security policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with BZÖ and Greens.]] And so you deserve our trust and not our distrust.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e75529	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. 6 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e75550	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] High house! I originally wanted to speak differently on the subject of internal affairs, but the debate up to now and the speeches given here show a little change. Mr Pilz, we liberals have to think slowly about whether we should not transfer anything from our election budget for your support! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because just as you put us free for the Austrian voters in front of the curtain, this is almost impossible to achieve by your own advertising agency. With regard to the use of the term "right-wing extremism", I should like to remind Mrs Prammer: You have just said that you will be aware of mutual terms or accusations of “left extremism” and “right-wing extremism” each with a call for order. A few minutes ago, Mr Pilz, Mr President, opposed this accusation to some Member of the House. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: He did it! That's crucial!]] Don't worry about it. This right-wing extremism concept of the Greens can obviously only have something to do with something that cannot be proved scientifically. [[Abg. Oellinger: You like that anyway!]] It seems to me like this: For example, if a person has an orderly family life when someone follows a job in order, if he is not drug dependent or similar, this is already classified by you under the term “right” or “right extrem”. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] If you complain that too few police are there to fight crime, I would advise you: Do not make violent demonstrations with your family members – I do not say: Prepare for violence, but violent! – which must be protected from other innocent citizens who use their right to freedom of assembly and the right of demonstration! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Don't pull off police with your violent actions! In addition, police officers may still be injured and will not be available for the crime in Austria due to the illness. Turn around at your own door in this regard! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, Mr President, Mr Pilz des Langen and Mr Breiten has quoted. It's just, in my mind, that the question has been raised as to whether he can read meaningfully! On the one hand, he read out, on the other hand, an interpretation, which I think is: What are you doing? You say you read about it being checked if, for example, a burger is banned. – “tests” do not already mean condemning. It was apparently checked and then found nothing like so many things from anonymous ads that you and your like are always against various people – mostly anonymous! – let go and where nothing comes out afterwards. Before, however, you have leased the media rump for yourself! This is just your diffamation strategy, which is thanks to more and more Austrians recognize. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Something completely different: Mrs Lueger spoke on asylum issues. Yes, Austria must be the country that is at the top of all its countries providing protection-seeking support, but not those who come here and lie, cheat the state and lie on the bag! Look Turn on the numbers! Look You don't go! The worst thing that exists is politicians who do not recognize the real problems in this Republic. And from your speech, Mrs Lueger, I have realized that you have not recognized the real problems in the asylum field. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just a small case-by-case example: A Czech family living in Traiskirchen – parents with five children, according to the police, should have been postponed to Poland due to the EU decision of the Dublin Convention. This was not possible because the ten-year-old daughter was missing. The executive found the disturbed and crying child at a bus stop in Baden. After the survey, it turned out that the parents simply suspended the daughter in Baden in order not to be relocated. – I do not think these people deserve any protection in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e75674	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read by Mr Rosenkranz, has been properly supported and properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e75745	Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz, I shall be given the minutes of Mr Pilz's speech. I didn't know that he had drawn someone in the house – no matter who – of right-wing extremism. But I'm going to look at that. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: He did it, especially!]] The next speaker is Mr Pendl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e75790	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very serious and sensitive issue. Klubobmann's head has expressed that the situation is probably a very difficult one internationally. But I would invite all of you, ladies and gentlemen, first of all – I mean, it is not an excuse worth saying, it is election! – to consider how we make certain choices of words. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What choice?]] It has already been mentioned today: Whether it is here in plenary or in committee, we should keep reminding ourselves that it is also up to us, how we formulate how we deal with each other! I mean, it's essential that you always get very deep in the drawer. Because it concerns the Minister: It was embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen! There were enough Members in the last committee. I mean, we all don't need to discuss at such a level here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Let me also make it clear: I was not always in agreement with everyone from 2000 to 2006 when you were involved! Many have forgotten that. We have repeatedly pointed out problems. I am glad that this Federal Government has already managed to include in its government programme the measures quoted and assembled today, and that this government is working on these implementation steps. I do not think there will be anyone against the fact that we will receive more 1 000 posts during this period! I mean, it's a step in the right direction. What are you supposed to criticize here and for yourself? It is a clear signal when we work to ensure that those who need our humanitarian aid also receive them, but those who misuse our home country and asylum law or all-eastern law at all, are brought in very fast procedures and are then returned very quickly. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Seven years!]] We're always talking about old cases. Don't forget who was in the government! And do not forget in what years the greatest immigrations took place! I didn't forget, I'm just saving myself to figure this out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In the nineties!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if you are against the Austrian legal system, you have it with us – I say that quite clearly! – not to expect our generosity! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Prince.]] In the coming weeks and months, we will look very carefully – just as we have done in the Government Agreement – that we will also work out the follow-up proposals that have been quoted over and over again. We will take a very close look at how we can handle the process of recognised Dublin cases as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these points, which were written down in the Government Convention, have already been taken up by the Minister responsible. This range of measures, which will be implemented in the coming weeks and months, could be further mentioned here. I would also like to express one thing clearly. Even though I have very often spoken critically here from this speaker's desk in recent years: One thing you can't do – that's really not unfair; Gentlemen would never do that! –: We do not need to blame the current Minister for what two ministers have done before her either! The insiders know, too. So I mean, regardless of whether EU election is, or not, or whether in a few months' time country elections are on the doorstep, we don't have to go down to the level – that's what I'd say! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the Federal Chancellor has said, of course, it needs better and stronger control at the Schengen external borders. That's not a question at all. We will, of course, review and evaluate where necessary. The fact that we will continue to use assistance is not a question either. And we are convinced that – otherwise we would not have written it into the government agreement! – that we need more staff in the agglomerations and in the most burdened regions of our home country. I mean, we're already doing that, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to thank you for the success of maintaining a budget at an economically very difficult time for the Ministry of the Interior, where there are more than 1 000 planning posts, on the other hand, a higher approach is provided for both in 2009 and in 2010. This is not a matter of course in such an economic situation as that in which we are located. One thing we should do together – you can always call in: He always thanks! –: If we start flat-rate attacks here, then we will not start them on a member of the government, but then of course we will start these attacks on our fellow Members. They didn't deserve it. I think we should together say thank you very much to the Austrian executives for their heavy service. I'll do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e75901	Next, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e75922	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Otto “Thanks” Pendl, we would have been disappointed if you hadn’t thanked today. But I missed the invitation, because otherwise you always invite us. But now, essentially: The sage of today is clearly – and it will be difficult to overcome – from Klubobmann's head. He said from the speaker's desk: Crime has fallen by 3 percent. – Yes, Mr. Klubobmann’s head, and the earth is a disc, and the SCR Altach becomes a football champion in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Clearly, these are your views that you give of yourself. [[Abg. Kößl: You can't read statistics!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler:... Mayor!]] - Yeah, that's right. That would also be appropriate. Mr Klubobmann Kopf, you don't know what is happening in this country that in the first quarter of 2009 we are now 200 000 crime cases – that should interest you as a security spokesman! – have – that's record! – that we have 67 crimes per hour in this country? [[Abg. Kößl: Are you talking about the budget or what are you talking about?]] [[Abg. Kößl: This is a distortion of the facts!]] Crime is sinking?- Oh, my God! Record value?- Oh, my God! Don't you know that we have 1,600 crimes every day in Austria, Mr. Klubobmann's head? Crime is falling, do you think? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] Don't you know we've had the highest housing and house breaking rates since we've been recording? But crime is falling, Mr. Klubobmann's head?- Oh, my God! Do you not know that we have the next “construction site” in the security policy on the current day, namely with regard to car break-in? If you haven't read this yet, Mrs. Interior Minister: The newspaper “Today” reads: “Alarm: 38 percent more car thefts” in Vienna. [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the said paper up to date.]] It is already the form of new gang crime that cars are cracked. Don't you know all this, Mr. Klubobmann's head? Don't you know we still have the slightest reconnaissance rate for this? That's what you're saying. It is a dramatic development overall, but the clubman of the ÖVP – the government party that represents the Minister of the Interior! – says crime is falling. This statement is actually to generate, Mr. Klubobmann's head – really true! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Kößl:... that you are distorting reality on and on! A distortion of the facts!]] And what does the Minister of the Interior do? – Minister of the Interior Fekter gives an interview on the house collapses in the "Kurier" of 27. May 2009, that is a short time ago. And do you know what the Minister of the Interior says? “I think the worst” is “all right.” [[Call BZÖ:Jö!]] There are two options, Mrs Innenminister: Either the loss of reality has already reached dramatic proportions, or – this is the second explanation – all the apartments and houses where there is something to pick up have already been cleared out because you have not done anything about it, and there is nothing more to get there. But I think the first variant is true. The loss of reality of the minister is so widened that she simply does not recognize reality anymore. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then it will be exciting at all, because then the Minister of the Interior will explain why the worst thing has already been done in the house collapses. She says – I quote –: “By reporting on these many house and housing breakdowns, people also “recognize that they can contribute to the protection of their own property.” [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Self responsibility!]] [[Abg. Kößl: But you cannot deny your own responsibility!]] The Interior Minister or the Security Executive under her does not protect the people – she does not! – but: Protect yourself, for no one else will help you! – This is the motto of the Minister of the Interior. And that's actually a scandal, Mrs. Inner Minister, how you deal with people! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Get up! Be barricaded! That's best. As an interior minister, I can't do anything anyway, because the worst is already over! – That is really inconceivable, Mrs. Interior Minister! I also read – Mr Stadler has already shown this – that: “Dangerous bottleneck with the police”. That's the biggest thing at all! [[Abg. Kößl: Read right!]] “When it comes to Sundays and public holidays in Vienna, it will become with the police” due to lack of reserve “close.” It says literally – I quote –: “Nightly, but”, especially “on Sundays and holidays, the ministry runs with the minimum level. That means that only about one sixth of all uniforms in the districts are in service. ‘If it’s gross, we’re fast at the limit, if not beyond,” says a staff representative, not us! [[Abg. Kößl: You have to read everything! You're just taking out a few lines!]] And it's still said, Minister of the Interior, so that all the criminal gangs and theft gangs know: You have to come on Sundays and holidays, because we are not operational as executives at all! - Now everyone knows, Mrs. Minister! Do something about it! Finally, help people in their needs as far as the invasions are concerned! That's very, very important. And that's what we demand. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Kößl: You can no longer be a populist...!]] Look away, ignore, facilitate asylum laws, even more asylum crime comes in, stay right – these are your actions! There is also a discussion on the eastern border. I think that's well done, too. First, we are told for weeks by the Minister and the ÖVP that this is not a problem. The opening of the Eastern border is not the reason why we have more crime. And now, at once, when there are suddenly such front pages – “ giants over open eastern border, 62 percent” of people “see “Invitation for Criminal Touristists” – we must leave the federal army at the border; perhaps even stronger, says the Federal Chancellor. And, of course, the minister attests: Of course, there is a problem at the border! That's where we have to leave the federal army! So what now? Is there a problem – then we have to secure and control the borders – or is there none, Mrs. Minister? We're saying that's the main problem! Since the opening of the Schengen border, crime has swung up with us. That is why we say: This border is completely controlled so that we can have more security in the country again! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. You have no idea of safety!]] But it's all very simple. The Minister has now found the remedy: stronger penalties against the invaders. At the age of one year, these must be punished. – Madam Minister of the Interior, if one does not even catch her, because we only have 3 per cent of the education rate, the more severe punishment is useless! – We welcome it anyway. But even if you catch her, it's just a throughput these days. If a culprit is caught these days, what does he have to worry about? – None at all, because there is the Bergerian detention package. That is, in a very short time, he will be free again and will grinse in the face of the next policeman – who will arrest him again – because he will be released in a few months anyway. This is not a policy of security! You have not only failed in security policy, but you have already ended, and that is why you have received a condolences wreath from your group today, Mrs Minister. I congratulate you on that. That's your policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is another method that the Minister has, an answer as to how she will now eradicate crime. Her answer is, she's doing crime surveys now. Great! That is, the perpetrators, the few we catch and the ones that will be released immediately will now be asked about the motives. Why did you break in? – Mrs Minister, I do not need to question anyone! The reason is personal enrichment. That'll be the answer. That is not an answer to crime in this country or the budget! It is a budget full of contradictions, a budget that is not right in the back and in the front. And the fairy tale... – Yes, Minister of Finance! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Prill: You don't know each other!]] Your fairy tales of 1,000 policemen more is a pure invention! Tell me the page in the budget where that is! There are no more 1 000 police officers in any job plan, in no budget. The police union has already said that they cannot be financed at all. That there will be more 1,000 police officers is the biggest reproach you claim and that is not in this budget at all! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] They say that there will be fewer asylum seekers, but the budget has suddenly exploded from €141 million to €181 million for basic care of the asylum seekers. Why? What do we expect in the field? Or: Even in one's own house is not saved; Mr Grosz always shows how money is being poured out of the window. Just a small example: There is a post “technical equipment”, and half a million are simply erased over the table. Even if the Ministry of the Interior is renewed, it is not saved, but outside with the police officers, in the guard rooms, even if the kitt already falls out of the window frame and almost break it apart, there is nothing invested, there you leave the executive in the lurch. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: I don't know!]] – This too is not okay, Mrs Minister, that is also to be rejected! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Kößl: Do you even know what you're talking about? - Probably! Unimaginable!]] Mrs Fekter, you have failed, your group has failed, you have already resigned from security policy, and therefore it is good that there is Ewald Stadler and the BZÖ that a distrust request against this minister is being filed today because she has completely failed. [[Abg. Kößl: This is a distortion of reality!]] [[Abg. That's really a shame! That's a total shame!]] Another thing: Ewald Stadler, together with the BZÖ, convened a meeting of the National Security Council for next Wednesday – an emergency response against a Minister and ÖVP who has failed in security matters.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e76259	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the GOG provisions.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e76283	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We know our colleague Westenthal with the figures...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e76299	Mr deputies, the actual correction! You have with the corrective...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e76314	My previous speaker, Mr Westenthaler, said in his speech that there had been 200 000 crimes in the first quarter. That would be up to 800 000 crimes in the year, and that would, I believe, be world record. – That’s wrong, colleague Westenthaler! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's it!]] On the contrary, it is true that there have been 195,000 known offences in the first quarter; both traffic accidents and cases where, for example, someone needs a police officer appear in these statistics as well as various burglaries. [[Ironic cheerfulness at the BZÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Please, 195,000!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Theft as well!]] [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Sit down, not enough!]] Mr Westenthaler also claimed that the government and Mrs Federal Minister are trying to facilitate asylum laws. – I’m correcting: According to the Government Convention, no relief is envisaged. On the contrary! The Federal Government is striving to strengthen the relevant provisions!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e76434	The next item is the speech by Mr Hornek. 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e76479	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A few weeks ago, a fire brigade spread fear and horror in my home region. This young man has lit three warehouses, cremated a social establishment, a large tableware that produces the popular Matador toys, made the ground and ground by a fire bristle and caused a damage of one million €. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: BZÖler!]] He broke down the tires on firearms. Ladies and gentlemen, only the excellent work of the National Criminal Office of Lower Austria and the police officers of our district is due to the fact that the young man did not do what he wanted to do. He was arrested before, so our police and our country criminal office prevented him from killing his mother, his father, and his primary school teachers, or police, on his mental list of deaths. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an excellent performance! I would like to thank the officials for their commitment, for their enormous commitment, for what they have done within a very short time. – A warm thank you! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Security is a very important concern for the ÖVP. 1 000 police officers more, clear focus in the budget, international networking to increase efficiency means 3.6 percent reduction in crime. I am surprised at the BZÖ's request today. BZÖ and security and police, what does that mean? – When I browse the media of the last day, I find: Process. – Is Westenthal coming back soon? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wait!]] Politically colored justice? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is your legal understanding!]] Does the former BZÖ chief Peter Westenthaler stylize? This leaves the Vienna Oberlandesgericht unimpressed? – Of course it is unlikely. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website Mr Westenthaler, you will not get flowers for this, but perhaps the song: Say goodbye quietly to Servus! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Shopf.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I'll sit in here longer than you, don't worry!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a few pages further one can find a Mr Huber under the title: It is embarrassing that BZÖ politicians wanted to convert Italy-Trip to Parliament. – I cannot understand at all that Mr Huber is so concerned that when he travels to Italy and then returns, he has problems with the executive, the justice or the like. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: That's not right!]] It's all inexplicable to me. Only one thing, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be: if you have problems as a Member of Parliament, you will subsequently make distrust applications so that you can have it more comfortable! There will be no such thing in this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I'll sit there for even longer than you, don't worry!]] We trust our Mrs. Dr. Fekter, our Federal Minister for the Interior! It is the optimal occupation, and we will certainly express our trust in it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e76597	Now comes Mrs Mag. Korun with 10 minutes of desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e76618	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests at the gallery! Granted, the task of the Minister of the Interior is a very difficult one and a very sensitive one, because the Office of the Interior is to control essential parts of the state monopoly of violence, it is about safeguarding the fundamental rights of all the people who live in our country. It is about effective crime control, but it is also about humanitarian protection for persecuted people, about immigration with its integration measures. That is why this office needs a high level of responsibility, including professional competence, but also respect for the Constitution and fundamental rights and humanity. Today, after a number of months in office, Mrs. Dr. Fekter sees that she has massively failed in essential areas of fundamental rights, the fight against crime, asylum, but also integration policy. This is also the reason why we Greens are today submitting a mistrust request against Minister of the Interior Fekter. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] To the failures in security policy. – Now you can say that when Mrs. Dr. Fekter took over the office, there was a police reformed by party interests. It could be said that this was the “merit” – under quotations – of its predecessor Ernst Strasser or of its predecessors and predecessors, but then it should have been the reform of the reform. Not only did she not do that, but it was only in December 2008 that proven criminal political structures were broken down by the Vienna police, for example, and politically wanted emporses were lifted into key positions. It is also true that internal critics such as, for example, but not only Herwig Haidinger are to be intimidated and put to death by disciplinary measures and sanctions. Ms Fekter believes that she can become lord or wife with far-reaching surveillance measures of increasing crime. She tries to fight crime with online searches and mass DNA tests. In doing so, she would have to know for herself that this will not succeed and will not succeed. Some of my previous speakers have already mentioned it: We have an increasing rate of crime and a rapidly falling or declining rate of information on crime crimes. In Vienna, for example, we have reached a total of 3.2 percent in the event of house collapses. Given these facts and the fact that security policy would work very well in Austria, it is only cynical, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, there are also tragic statements by the Minister of the Interior. For example, she claims to be able to succeed in preventing amoctats through online search – I quote. Anyone who knows a little about these actions can tell you that this is not only false and will not bring success, but that is also quite ridiculous. Ms Fekter has also tried, by means of evidence, for example, through reports by Amnesty International and presented structural racism in the police structures in her office... [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: This is a lie!]] . It not only refuses to mention these problems but, in the future, refuses to address the problem in these areas. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is actually an order call “This is a lie!”]] The problems are not recognized, and victims of some police acts, some of them official acts, such as, for example, US teacher Mike Brennan, are also to be discredited by targeted press work by the Ministry in public opinion. – This is not a problem-solving competence, Mrs Minister, but it is a head-in-the-sand policy, and that will not solve the problems in your department and in your area of responsibility! [[Congratulation with the Greens]] To failure in the supply of asylum. The Minister of the Interior should act as head of the department responsible for asylum, for the protection of people from persecution within the meaning of the Geneva Convention on Refugees. What does she do instead? – Through targeted statements, she operates mood-making, flat-rate mood-making against asylum seekers and asylum seekers. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Who?]] Here is a very concrete quote from Mrs. “Asyl is the emergency reception and business refugees are spa guests.” – For example, in the “Press” on 27 May. November 2008. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Go, please!]] Another quote: “Asyl weavers must not ask for help here and then dance around the authorities on the nose.” – The quote from the “standard” of the 8th century. ==References== [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The woman minister is almost never concerned with people who are really looking for protection from persecution, but it is always about so-called asylum abuse. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] Asylum seekers are constantly being put up as potential criminals, as so-called economic refugees, as schinasylants. Ladies and gentlemen! We have the situation that worldwide less than one percent of the people seeking protection in the EU are applying for asylum. Worldwide, 32 million people are currently fleeing persecution. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – This is populist, Mr Commissioner, what you are saying. No one, not the Greens, has ever said that all the persecuted should come to Austria. By the way, that is not the case either. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Perhaps you could lock up your ears and really listen to less than one percent of all refugees worldwide come to the EU! [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Most of them stay in very poor regions and are provided there – from countries that are anything but rich. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Die Bettelwirtschaft...!]] In this case, less than one percent of those seeking protection in the EU, the Minister is barred against uniform standards in the EU. She says all the time, Austria is very attractive to asylum seekers, so they come here. – Mrs Minister, this would mean that you should finally work to ensure that there are uniform standards across the EU so that all EU countries are equally attractive – to remain in your logic – so that the number of asylum seekers and asylum seekers is evenly distributed across all EU countries. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What are you doing? - That's the opposite! They claim that Austria is so attractive, and do everything in your power to prevent it from coming to the Council of Interior Ministers in Brussels, that there are uniform rules. The failure in the area of integration must also be addressed briefly. They are calling for a national action plan for integration, and this is precisely covered with zero euro. In the 2009 and 2010 budgets, there is exactly zero euro for the implementation of this great National Action Plan for Integration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury.]] They themselves know that there are problems in the area of integration that need to be addressed urgently. - That's what we call greens. In view of this holistic failure in your department, I hereby make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Incredible!]] This failure in the fight against crime, in the area of asylum, in the area of human rights and fundamental rights can and must no longer be seen as a National Council. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e76832	The request for distrust just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e77035	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter is speaking. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e77057	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear guests at the gallery! Security is a fundamental right for people in Austria, they have a right to be able to live in security here. Thank God Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It was only recently that Vienna was elected the city with the highest quality of life worldwide, not in Austria, but because of an international ranking. [[New applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] More than 30 000 staff at the Ministry of the Interior work for this fundamental right of security and strive to ensure that the Austrians, as well as our tourist guests, experience safety. My goal is to worship my dear Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is not only one of the safest countries in the world to make it the safest country in the world, and for that we will make safety our goal. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ]] The fight against crime was and is the ultimate goal not only of me, but also of the Federal Government. That is why the developments that we are currently encountering require a corresponding counter-tax. In the Federal Government, we have set the priority goal of strengthening security even in times of painful financial and economic crisis. If we want to master the crisis, we have to make security. I have intensive – intensive – with the Federal Minister for Finance! – Budget negotiations have been conducted, and we have come to an excellent result for the interior resort and thus for the people in Austria. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Can't you speak freely?]] For the first time, a global budget allows medium-term planning of financial resources. This means that we can set priorities in the area, that we can use the money available to us where it is necessary for the fight against crime. We can also form reserves and thus align our strategies in the medium term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We are a parliament, not a reading!]] The total budget recorded an increase of 200.6 million in 2009. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr Westenthaler, listen, because you certainly haven't read the budget! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Speak freely!]] The total budget 2010 has a plus of 219.3 million. This allows us to pursue our strategies. In absolute figures, the €2.343 billion is available for security. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who wrote this to you?]] For the year 2010 there are 2,362 billion €. I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chanceller and Minister of Finance Pröll for giving him such a high priority in his security budget that during this legislative period, we are able to increase the staffing level by 1,000 new posts, and that we have received medium-term personnel planning, i.e. 1 000 training plans per year, of which Vienna receives 450 – i.e. the largest share. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP]] Taking into account the recent tragic events, I have also ordered more staff in the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism to form a special commission against religious extremism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The staff offensive in the field of police training places results in an increase of 20 percent per year. At present, hundreds of young police officers are completing their basic training – an education that ranks in a top position in international comparison. But I am also concerned about the training of executives, the training of the team is a very, very serious concern. We want to put international signs there. That is why the police now have a baccalaureate study; we have also newly established a master's degree for police executives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To do this, we also need to have the team working flexibly. I would like to thank the House for the fact that the flexipool law has already been passed. With 1. June 2009, there will be a flexipool, that is, after the training in the police school, the young inspectors will come to the flexipool and can then be flexibly used where we need it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Turn over!]] This measure, ladies and gentlemen, is also an active promotion of women at the Ministry of the Interior, because, for example, mother care is no longer a problem for service planning in the future; of course, this also applies to the father's care. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The proportion of women in executives is currently 12 per cent; we increase it gradually. It is true that the proportion of women in police schools is already much higher – on average, it is well over 30 percent. I am very proud that in Upper Austria we currently have a course with 13 girls and 12 boys. This is a good development for the police. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, in order to have the team in operation where we need them, and then when we need them, an adequate load code and performance code model is necessary. This will be available in 2011, and then we will make optimizations. However, in addition to human strength and motivated teams, a good police force also needs appropriate equipment, which is why it has a certain amount of work to do. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance once again for paying very high attention to this area and increasing funds for the expenditure on matters. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: such a shame!]] This enables us to provide the police with the necessary infrastructure and tools. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A real mogel pack!]] Modern infrastructure and good working conditions are, on the one hand, an important motivation factor, and on the other hand an efficient tool to provide secure police work. Mr Finanzminister, Mr Hohes Haus, it is also necessary that we take care to protect our policemen, who do good work and, Mrs Korun, are not structurally racist – I am very determined against this accusation! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary that we also protect our police that we support them in daily work. I was already at three funerals of police who died in the service this year, and I was on two sick beds of police officers, against whom there were targeted murders by heart strokes. That, Mrs. Korun, you need to know! [[Abg. May. Korun: Yes, that's bad!]] [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: What do you want to tell us?]] [[New call of the abg. May. Korun.]] You need to know how hard the police work is. Two thousand police officers are injured during the year. [[Prolonged calls to the Greens.]] I would also like to hear from your mouth that this will also be observed. [[Lively applause with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] We therefore provide the executive resources so that it can provide its work for the population and for the service of the population as a service in the state of Austria. This also includes vehicles. We are gradually upgrading, 1 940 leasing cars are already in use and will increase their number to 2 200 this year. For this we use € 13.8 million, and the fleet will be upgraded again in 2010 with about € 19.5 million. At the same time, in the Sachbudget we also took care of the service clothing, the personal equipment and the equipment needed by the police. Priority work, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, we also have asylum law, foreign law and integration in front of us in the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to say this very clearly once again and I will say this again and again: Asylum for those who need it, without If and But, but economic migration is something else. Whoever abuses our asylum system, which is a very humane system, by crime or illegality or otherwise by extremism and radicalization, has not deserved this system. [[Lively condolences with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] We will therefore call on all those who misuse our asylum system and then carry out radical terrorist attacks. This has not lost anything in our country! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why we make a right to stay?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the creation of the Asylum Court, we have also put in place effective accompanying measures and have undertaken a massive increase in staff in the area of tourism and asylum. In the area of the Bundesasylamt we have brought more efficiency with 54 employees, in the area of the foreign police with additional 105 planning points. I must thank the Bundesasylamt for setting up an excellent quality management system: Quality assurance in the event of interrogations, quality assurance in interpreting, quality assurance in state documentation, quality assurance in dealing with the reasons presented, quality assurance as well as in the care of those seeking asylum. No matter how well this quality management is now internationally recognized, UNHCR has turned to the Federal Asyl Office and wants to implement this system as a best practice example in the UK and also in other countries in Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I do not allow the first instance – namely the Federal Asyl Office – to be permanently responsible for the long-term nature of the proceedings. [[Abg. May. Korun: Take a third!]] The length of the stay during various procedures is largely caused by the fact that some enter an application marathon, which from the outset has no prospect of success, and we will put it off! [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Korun: You don't even have numbers on it! That's not what you're up against.]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of integration is clearly to be separated from the asylum rail, which is a aid rail – with regard to those who can provide reasons for escape, who are being persecuted and whom we want to help. [[Abg. Strache: These are free ideas!]] Integration is for those who are already there – some already in second generation and many of them Austrians – and for those who are allowed to stay here. [[Abg. May. Korun: What do you have?]] We must make special efforts where we still need action. There are deficits and problem areas: Think of the language, think of the qualification, think, Mrs. Korun, also of the question of emancipation, of how to deal with women and their dignity occasionally! [[Abg. May. Korun: zero euros!]] [[Abg. May. Korun: Yes!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, exactly!]] That's a big concern to me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. May. Korun: zero Euro budget!]] I am very concerned that, together with the National Action Plan, we are making efforts to eliminate deficits, to set up measures and then to create a sense of union between people with migration backgrounds and the majority of society. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What do you have in the budget? Before you talk about it, explain it to us!]] [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Budget, explain this once!]] [[Abg. May. Korun: not budgeted!]] Mrs Korun, you know very well that integration cannot be ordered from the ministerial side – from the top. [[Abg. May. Korun: But you can take action!]] Integration must grow from below, in the communities, in the cities, in the countries and in all ministries, in all areas. [[Abg. May. Korun: Yes, too!]] [[Abg. May. Korun: Where are the budgets for this?]] – The budgets, Mrs Colleague, are in the respective areas of responsibility. [[Abg. May. Korun: So the countries and communities should pay?- Oh, my God!]] The kindergarten, for example, is not the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, and I did not manage the educational budget either. What the municipalities do in the context of their spatial planning activities, I did not manage either. [[Abg. May. Korun: That's what the municipalities are supposed to pay for?- Oh, my God!]] But, Mrs Korun, we manage the pots co-financed by the EU, which are currently on the alert, and we will also be awarded the projects there with a view to a priority range. [[Abg. May. Korun: Cute financing!]] However, we will also look specifically at the efficiency of the projects, for if, for example, infrastructure institutions can get money for language training and then fail to show success, they will not get any more money in the future. [[Further calls to the Greens.]] There is an efficiency management appropriate! [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] As it has already been discussed in the debates today, I would like to say a few words about the police's infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Black ÖVP ministers have, since they were in charge, a massive offensive in the renewal of the police services – thank God! ............................................................................................................................. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Everything recolored!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, exactly!]] For example, since 2000, 522 police inspections have been rebuilt. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I too will continue this good tradition. There will be more than 50 construction projects in this year, which will continue next year. Furthermore, together with the BIG, we have large-scale projects in planning, which will become budget-effective in a later period of time. These include the general renovation of the Rennweg-Kaserne, the establishment of a competence centre for third-country nationals, the first reception centre in South, the establishment of an operational centre for compensation measures in Wiener Neustadt and the construction of a technical building at the State Police Commando Styria. These are also contributions that we can make in terms of infrastructure for support and economic recovery. Ladies and gentlemen! The main objective, however, is clearly to combat crime at the moment. That is why we will also bring to work entirely new strategies and modernity. With the new leadership in the Federal Criminal Office, a completely new strategy process begins. It is important to us that the new strategies are known in every strip car. The findings from daily analyses and forecasting instruments, which we have scientifically developed with Joanneum Research, must, through the analysis centres of the federal criminal offices and the Federal Criminal Office, take place precisely into the strip planning of each district. Then we will stop with this networked strategy of criminal energy. Criminal statistics are also being re-established because the current form does not allow any statements on the structures of the perpetrator and the nature of the victims affected. We must, however, allow the perpetrators' behaviour and the victim structures to be integrated so that we can get better in the field of prevention. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, let me add a little bit to Schengen and to this ever-increasing measure: Border beams down! That's right. Today there is prosperity in the border regions, to the extent that we have not been able to imagine it before! [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Plassnik.]] [[Abg. Hear: That's right!]] The quality of life of the people in the border regions – both over and over – increased in a dimension, as was not the case for decades before. This visible upswing and these jobs, all of them, ladies and gentlemen, do you want to endanger by closing the borders again?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Hear: That's right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Make sure!]] [[Abg. It's about controls, Mrs. Minister! This is a temporary suspension!]] With regard to security – that is right – there are challenges, but these challenges are to be overcome, not by building walls and dropping beams. That's what separates! [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Sagittarius! Protect property!]] Border bars separate friends, border bars separate families, and they exclude people from quality of life. That is why this is the wrong way! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The challenge to safety, ladies and gentlemen, we must meet, we must face it. But it's a pretty dull answer if you think we can only get more security through a border bar; quite the contrary. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steps: Action packages!]] We have opted for a concept that brings about a threefold, wide-ranging security system for the Austrian border areas. Previously, there were only border controls at a border bar, where many were awakened – also the criminal energy! It was also before the border opening, it is not that we had lived on an island of the Blessed at that time. [[Abg. Strache: Today we have record values and a security emergency in this area!]] That is, there is now a dense, kilometre-deep network of police controls on both sides of the border. In these border regions, mixed police strips are patrolling around the clock, which did not exist before, which we carry out with the neighbouring countries. [[Abg. May. Worm: compensation measures!]] Our police can also prosecute criminals alone in neighbouring areas, which, in turn, was not possible before, but which is now possible through modern state agreements. [[A number of people leave the visitor gallery.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now people are going home! They're all going home!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Now people go home!]] Secondly, our eastern neighbours were integrated into a very modern, newly established EU arrest system, namely the Schengen Information System “SIS-one-4-all”. This enables our police, for example, to check suspects from the Schengen area on the laptop immediately if there is something against them. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It wasn't possible before. There was a need to act bureaucratically, there was a lengthy correspondence about Interpol – now it goes with a push of a button. This will enable our police to immediately initiate arrest measures when suspects are inspected from the Schengen area. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (pointing to the visitor gallery) You drive people away!]] In this way, Mr Westenthaler, we have been able to search for fake documents, stolen cars, suspects and illegal arrivals in relatively large numbers, and we are proud of these successes! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have not only one measure, which reads as follows: Border bars down!, we have several measures, because – third – we have helped to build a very modern border security system at the EU's external borders in our eastern neighbours with our know-how and together with European funds. The EU is supporting us in this process, and we are also fighting for it together in the EU. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This security system offers a triple security ring for Austria, and it is also a sign that crime has not increased immediately after the border opening, but it has still fallen after the border opening. It was not until last autumn, in October, that we discovered a phenomenon regarding the intrusion. This has risen to the peak in January, and we already have a flattening of the curve, starting in mid-March and in April. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We face the challenges of security, but we also want to raise the quality of life in the border area, strengthen it and enable citizens to travel. We protect safety by means of measures other than border bars! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Our priority actions, ladies and gentlemen, we will intensify. We have very significant declines in the invading crimes in Salzburg and Upper Austria, and I hope that this will soon be the case in Vienna. We share priority actions, overcoming federal states, but we also have priority actions with our neighbours. That is, under the participation of police from Vienna, Lower Austria, Burgenland, but also Slovakia and Hungary, we will secure the border area more efficiently. But crime is connected and borders are loose. We must therefore also set up international strategies. All the major challenges of our internal security today have an international dimension. International cooperation is part of our success strategy. This applies to international terrorism, which applies to cross-border crime, which applies to asylum, but also to migration for work reasons, and this applies in particular to international disaster protection, where Austria plays a very exemplary role. I thank all Red Cross helpers and Blue Light organizations, who are not only doing excellent work in Austria, but also internationally recognized. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Modern border management allows us to have 26 million arrest data in minutes across the EU that we can use to check whether criminal energy is doing something with us or not. Just 3.9 million DNA data are available to us to find perpetrators. There have been 6,000 hits since 2006! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, since murders could be resolved, body injury crime resolved, sexual offences resolved, many detained people could be identified. Because of this police cooperation, perpetrators cannot quickly cross the border and are gone, but we catch it together in cooperation. Let me just say something about the fight against terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Terrorism, radicalization is something that we have believed to be spared until too long ago. The last Constitutional Protection Report included a contribution to terrorist cells in Austria, and I have reaped a tired smile from my colleague Pilz, who has so amusingly enjoyed the fact that this is in the Constitutional Protection Report. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Take the work of the police and also the work of the Federal Office for the Control of Terrorism and Constitutional Protection seriously! If we point out that we also have cells here, then this is something we must take seriously – what the latest attack has shown. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] We will also have closer networking here with the Constitutional Service, with the intelligence service of the National Defence Department. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: There is no constitutional service! There's no such thing!]] A draft law in this respect is already in the country's defence department. I hope that we will get the House's approval to cooperate with these two services. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We will set priorities where they are necessary so that in the future people in Austria can experience security. That is why we will make safety concrete, and we will eliminate and create order where there are shortcomings.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e77979	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78001	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Women Ministers! Mr State Secretary! The Minister for the Interior has said that not every border signifies more security, and I would like to support it. There are many measures that have been put in place, the so-called compensatory measures, but the most dangerous, ladies and gentlemen, are the limits in the mind, which are also often present. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And the beams in the eye!]] Mrs. Minister, let me also congratulate the city of Vienna, as a Tyrolean, for being the most vital city in the world, a beautiful city, a city worth living. For this, the city leadership under Michael Häupl and, of course, the Vienna police were also thanked. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: If you leave everything open, you can't be quite closed!]] A thousand more in these two budgets: This is an important and necessary measure for security in our country. And you will also experience them, even if you do not see them in the numbering work now, Mr. Westenthaler, you will see that we will receive these thousand more police officers. In Innsbruck we have a relatively “radial” – under quotation marks – North African scene. Some of it has already been responded. For example, an own specialist inspection was set up to be the master of this problem, and the number of police officers was increased from 20 to 34. It was responded when hotspots were set up, when protection zones were set up in the Rapoldipark and video surveillance took place at the station. We're getting this scene pretty slow together. A very important measure in this respect would, of course, also be the readmission agreement with the State of Morocco. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Why is there no such thing?]] There are also negotiations here. That's what we're working on, that's what we're working on. Mr Gahr will make a request in this respect, so that we can support it from Parliament. Mrs. Minister, you have already mentioned that there are already a lot of police officers employed inside, i.e. 12 percent. In various courses, the trainees already have 30 percent female. I've recently been on a sample: We've been able to kill 50 percent of female police women. That was a nice picture. They have made a good figure, and among the outstanding above all the women who have received particularly good testimony. Congratulations also to the police who serve on site! In so far, Mrs Minister, I think it is good and right, and there a woman has needed that this karenz pool, this flexi pool, is now finally set up. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: There's no such thing as that!]] This is important – but not only for women, because that would be discriminatory again. There are also many police officers who have to provide their services elsewhere due to their use in special units and other uses. Therefore, this possibility is a very important, essential measure for all those who serve people, for security in our country. Another point, Mrs Minister, is also very important to me, which is the question of violence in the family. Here we have decided, together with the Ministry of Justice, with the Minister of Justice, the Action Package II. The intervention agencies against violence in the family, against violence in the family circle, are again donated with the corresponding sums. Here, Mrs Minister, it would be important for me to see that what is contained in the Government Convention, namely the corresponding cost participation despite the savings budget, from a special budget, in an emergency home of forced women. We must also take action there, too, because we really have a pioneering role in Europe in this issue, in the fight against violence in the family, in the fight against violence against women. Let's continue in this sense! We have a lot to offer here, but we have done a lot as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78101	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78123	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! High house! In the interior, in the executive, in the administration of these authorities there is much in the arrogance, and of course it is not as perfect as the woman minister has tried to present to us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not, or at least, the most important, the Minister of the Interior, the officials of the Ministry of the Interior, and indeed not the executive debt, but also, to a large extent, the framework that we have put in the house here, the Myriade to laws, the Myriade to regulations that significantly impede the work of the authorities and the police These are the laws on foreigners, the laws on asylum, the provisions on the right of humanitarian residence and a variety of other laws that make it difficult for the police to deal effectively with the problems ahead. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That is why, Mr Stadler, wherever you stay or are, I find it quite absurd, in agreement with Mrs Korun, to file a motion of distrust against Mrs Fekter, the woman minister, who has actually shown in her long report today that she is standing where we also stand with our demands that she has taken on a lot of what the Free Party and, until recently, also the colleague Stadler has called for. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not our problem, and that is not our “enemy. ” Our problem lies in the regular work that colleagues – like Mrs Korun, like Mrs Pilz – are constantly forcing us here in line with various people from other political groups and in line with media-friendly nature. I want to return to what Mrs Korun said, and I would like to make a small trip to the world of asylum. We are always accused that Austria is doing too little, that Austria is still not enough human, that Austria is not open enough that Austria does not fulfil its international obligations or only partially. Let’s look at the numbers, for with numbers a system can always be performed very well, as it is called in “Faust! ” Austria has about 11 000 to 20 000 asylum seekers per year; the number of asylum seekers varies. Of this, there are 30 to 35 percent positive performance, 20 percent then remain over the way of deportation protection in the country. That means: 50 percent are considered to be absolutely unwarranted. This does not sound so bad, but it has to be put in comparison to what other countries are doing, and it has to be noted from the point of view that Austria is a country surrounded by a ring of safe third countries, by democracies that is over 1,000 kilometres from the first country, where one really has to fear being persecuted politically. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's look at our eastern neighbor, let's look into Slovakia. In Slovakia, for example, there were 2,643 asylum applications in 2007, 14 of which were done positively. If we look into the north, we look into the welfare state of Denmark: 1 852 asylum applications – done positively: 98. Let's go to the south, let's go to the front, to the unsafe neighboring states of Africa, let's go to Portugal: In 2007, 224 asylum applications, done positively – Mr Oellinger, what do you appreciate? - Two. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Very right. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter speaks to the next to her sitting Federal Minister Dr. Bandion-Ortner.]] [[Abg. You should be careful about this, Mrs. Minister.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Prill: She does it without you!]] But if we also go over the Mediterranean, we go to the Levant, we go to a state that feels itself the only democratic of the region and that is surrounded by certainly not safe third countries, we go to Israel: In 2006 5 382 asylum applications – done positively: three. In 2007, 1 425 asylum applications – done positively: five. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, and Mrs Minister, we can say that Austria is overshadowing its role here and that there should be no room for lifting our rules and supporting or signing EU-wide provisions, as happened by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, provisions that also force other states to adopt and exceed Austrian standards and thus not to distribute asylum seekers equally to all states, but to break all the dams everywhere and to deliver Europe to this problem without any protection. We have therefore prepared, on the well-known problem of the European Commission's proposals already approved by the Council of Europe, for a uniform minimum standard legislation on asylum, the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: “The competent Federal Ministers of the Austrian Federal Government – in particular the Federal Minister for the Interior – are invited to reject at European level the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers in the Member States in the sense of a restrictive asylum policy.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78229	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78337	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78358	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In the first place, I should like to point out: According to the statements made today by our Mrs. Innenministein Fekter, I note that she is not in question for a minute, whether she is personally, professionally, politically, whether she is working and whether she is working for us in the course and her commitment to safety, but that we are behind her that we are working with her for safety. And that's why it's supposed to be here in the House – and not applications that are purely populist. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Worm.]] It is in the internal budget that, despite the difficult situation and situation – that the positions and situations in security are changing – it is clear – the budget resources are being used precisely. As a Tyrolean Member of Parliament, I am grateful for the fact that we have come to a request for a joint effort to deal with a specific problem raised by Mr Worm, namely the Moroccans in Innsbruck. Yesterday, the “Tyrol daily ” wrote quite vividly: “Morocans now deal in buses. Police pressure shows effect: More and more dealers are trying their luck in the Vienna drug scene.” It is not a question of moving the problem to Vienna, by exerting pressure, but of dealing with the solution of such specific problems together, to recognize the situation and to respond properly to this situation. Therefore, I would like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Worm and Mr Gahr on further measures to improve the situation of foreign and criminal police in Innsbruck in connection with the so-called North African scene. The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for the Interior is invited to continue to improve the security situation in Innsbruck City to ensure that in Tyrol, especially in Innsbruck, the existing staff level corresponds to the planned staff status. In particular, it may be possible to take factual and legal precautions to ensure the unscathed deportation’ – I believe that this is an issue that we need to deal with even more strongly – ‘to ensure that persons who have been illegally detained are able to expand the means of repressive arrest and to limit the circumvention of orders by way of inability to hold back.’ I think it's about showing the population and giving the feeling that we're getting in control of such things that happen there. It's that. Something quite worrying, because there are all kinds of things happening. Young girls get kids here, and the Africans become sedentary here. And it's not that easy to find ways and ways. You have to deal with reason here, but also with human dignity. In this sense, I would like to thank Mrs. Fekter, the Minister of the Interior, for her genuine efforts to respond to today's situation properly and efficiently after the team04 reform. One should not always think about the money, but the point is: How do we use the means and the heads specifically and properly – for the benefit of security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78436	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78510	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78531	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! In her opinion, Mrs Federal Minister Fekter said that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world and she wants to make this Austria the safest country in the world. – Only, the security situation in Austria, Mrs Fekter, goes in a different direction, especially in the last four months. You won't disapprove of that. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] – Mr Vice-Chancellor, you know exactly what the situation is. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: It's getting better!]] The security situation changes dramatically and alarmingly. The criminal charges are up quickly. The most affected is the state capital Vienna. Overall, crime has increased by 14.5 percent in the last four months, the number of housing collapses by 17 percent, and the number of single-family house burglaries by 65 percent. In figures: 3 667 apartment break-ins, 1 010 burglaries in family houses, 5 681 car break-ins – in just four months, ladies and gentlemen appreciated! That's alarming! Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, it is not about letting down borders, but about strengthening control at the eastern borders of Austria. That's what it's all about! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is also provided for in the Schengen Agreement in such a way that, if a country's internal security is at risk, increased border controls are carried out. It's not about letting down borders, Mrs. Federal Minister! No, it's about increased controls, and that should be in your mind. We want to make Austria the safest country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want to protect Austrians from crime! An alarming trend is the reconnaissance rate, which decreases in an alarming manner. Due to the lower level of staff in the executive, the education rate is declining, the number of unexplained crimes is increasing and the investigations are much longer. Therefore, it is necessary to support the executive in terms of increasing the staff level accordingly in order to ensure security in Austria again. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you look at the figures in the establishment plan, you see that 1,000 additional posts should be set up, 600 additional planning posts should be saved – no one knows what is really going on, what this really looks like by the year 2013. We need more than 1,500 executive officers in Vienna alone, who are increasingly involved in crime investigation and crime investigation. The situation is heightened by outpourings, demonstrations, mass raptures at events and so on. We are not in a position to bring the executive officers there. It can also be staged that the criminals can then beat somewhere else. Of course, the crimes take place in the country. On the night of Wednesday on Thursday, the sports and adventure pool Spittal – the mayor Köfer will be interested in this – has had a break. The thieves did not take a prey, but left a trail of devastation there. So it cannot go on, the situation is really worrying, Mrs Federal Minister! To make Austria safer, this simply means increasing the number of executive officials, ensuring the necessary personnel in-house – to combat increasing crime and to increase the rate of crime reconnaissance.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78626	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78647	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I originally did not want to speak on the subject of security budget. Maria Fekter has shown impressively, first of all, her current balance sheet today, the balance of her work and its predecessors, in responsible role in the Ministry of the Interior, and secondly, that we have set a clear political focus after very tough negotiations. If today this budget is decided in the House, then there is an absolute political priority for the internal security of Austria in the Ministry of the Interior, including in the field of justice: Even in the crisis, one of the biggest financial and economic crises that have caught us, we set a clear sign of greater security in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister Maria Fekter also mentioned that Austria is the safest country in the world. – It was a hard work to get there. Thanks also to our executive officers. It is a shame that Mr Westenthaler is not here because he would be very interested. Mrs Fekter also pointed out that many officials, 2,000 a year, I think, were injured by the number, Mr Westenthaler, in the Austrian Security Service. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kuzdas.]] – You said that now! But these things must also be addressed, together with thanks to our executives. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Our common goal, ladies and gentlemen, can only be at such a stage in developing this high standard of safety in Austria. There can never be enough security! This is also our roadmap, I think, clearly defined for the future: More than 1,000 police officers, victim protection against crime as a valid principle of Austrian domestic policy and also the fight against criminal gangs and organizations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Strache, if you say: Close borders – and the matter is getting closed!, then there is a very clear other answer from me cross-border terrorism, cross-border crime can only be dealt with in a cross-border manner, i.e. in the European context. [[Abg. We're in control!]] This is the task we have to organize! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: And that's why we have the highest crime increase in Lower Austria, Vienna and Burgenland?! The removal of the Schengen border is the background to this situation!]] More European Union, more cooperation in order to put international gangs and criminals in the crafts, that must be our answer – and not to stop the shooting and thus nothing at all! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the real reason why I have spoken is that the two motions for censure from the left and the right, if I may say so simply. – The fact that such applications come from both sides clearly and clearly shows that our security policy, implemented by Maria Fekter, is gold-right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In such a situation, in my view, there has been no loss of mistrust by Greens and BZÖ. [[Abg. Bucher: But you will not prescribe us whether or not we are allowed to file a mistrust request! We're not that far yet! That's unheard of!]] We are at one of the most sensitive phases of the country in terms of social compensation as regards the culture of discussion and the need to keep the country in balance. And Maria Fekter is doing this at the head of the executive very, very well in this difficult responsibilities triangle between security policy, asylum and foreign law and integration. It has made sure that the tasks are carried out accordingly in this triangle. [[Abg. Bucher: As prepotent as you are here, that's incredible!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Maria Fekter also stands for hardness and enforceability, no question at all, but that is exactly what we need in times like this, where it is getting closer, where crime has increased – thanks to God, too, it is easy to fall again, because Federal Minister Maria Fekter and her team have acted energetically and efficiently! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister Dr. Fekter does not deserve Your distrust, but all of us trust in one of the most intense situations that the Republic has long experienced, and that is a task that we have to represent accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: We decide for ourselves, I don't need you to do that, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Such an arrogance, that is inconceivable!]] In addition, if I follow the debates in the last few days, including in the House, there must be a clear statement: Not the left-handed fist and the disguised left-wing terrorists, but also the right hand stretched out to the “German greeting” will lead Austria into the future, ladies and gentlemen, but the quiet hand of Maria Fekter with her team, which ensures that you conduct proper politics in the middle and find and develop the right answers for the future together. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz:... Austrofascism...! That's hotze from the government bank!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, on a topic of the last days: There is much talk in Parliament's debates about extremism, from left or right, in these hours and days politically, religiously motivated. I would like to make a proposal here: In the context of the government information budget, we have planned €5 million, and I propose, in view of these debates, that in the fight against extremism from the left and right, against racism and anti-Semitism, we set a clear focus on this government information, in which we will put information in the coming months. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's what I'm going to do. This is the right signal in the Enlightenment, in the fight against what is going on in some places.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78819	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78864	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for this announcement. I can assure him that the Socialist Group fully supports him in this matter of information and information. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Two motions for censure: How seriously these mistrusts are to be made is seen in the presence of the representatives of BZÖ and Greens. The BZÖ has a total of 21 Members – 7 Members are present here. It doesn't look any different with the greens. [[Abg. Brosz: Where's the cap?]] [[Abg. Bucher: This is a budget debate, Mr Colleague, and no urgent question!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, both motions for censure have, as it were, been closed. I say this with all the emphasis. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly on the BZÖ's motion of censure or in general on the argument of Mr Westenthaler. Although I do not want to give a lecture on the difference between crimes and crimes, recommend him to read, for one should be clear to everyone: that the theft of a “Kronen Zeitung” is not to be equated with a murder or rape. It is therefore insidious to call all the crimes displayed as crimes. This only serves to insure the public. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] But also the argument in the motion for a censure: I see this motion of censure calling for the border to be rebuilt as an attack on the border regions. Mrs Federal Minister Fekter made this very clear: A comprehensive approach to the fight against crime is necessary, and this concept has been presented by the Federal Minister here. A word to Mr Dolinschek, he meant that the intelligence rate was falling. – I'm correcting: After the first quarter, the education rate increased in Austria, in total Austria. But also a clear word about the Green Group: On behalf of my group, I would also like to reject the accusation of structural racism in the police. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, this is an attack on colleagues in the police who are doing excellent work! We know the problems police have; Mrs Fekter also pointed this out. And because we believe it is necessary by the Socialist Group that precisely these problems are also presented, namely, how often police officers are injured or killed, Mr Pendl and I will put in a parliamentary question to you, Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, so that you can clarify this and that this will become known here in the House. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria's domestic policy has great successes, especially in combating trafficking in human beings, because when we talk about trafficking in human beings, we talk primarily about women and girls living in sexual slavery. The EU Commission wants to fight trafficking in human beings more closely. According to the EU Commission, 1.2 million people worldwide are victims of trafficking in human beings, most of them being exploited as part of prostitution, 43 percent, or as labour force 32 percent. National legislation on the fight against trafficking in human beings should now be harmonised and the powers of the investigators extended. – Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I guarantee our full support for this project at European level because the victims of trafficking in human beings have to be protected – and those who trade in human beings who operate illegal towing have to be punished accordingly!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78972	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e78993	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Fekter, your appearance in Parliament today was simply embarrassing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kößl: This your pre-potential appearance is embarrassing! I just want to tell you that! That's unimaginable!]] If Mr Korun refers here to an amnesty international report, which speaks of structural racism, and Mrs Federal Minister Fekter has nothing to do with it but to suggest that we are dead policemen, this House is unworthy of it! That's a scandal, that's a derailment! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have an interior minister who sits in her ministry and cannot solve the problems there – and if she does not solve the problems soon, we will have to solve the Fekter problem here in Parliament. That's it! [[Call the ÖVP: You?- Oh, my God!]] The Federal Minister Fekter is accompanied by an eerie panseries. Panne 1: Complete underestimation of the far right criminal scene. There was the explanation that it was a mutual provocation. Then we discussed this here in Parliament, and the Federal Minister made it clear that she does not mean the incident in the Ebensee concentration camp. We take note of that. She was a little wretched and we're supposed to have her there somehow – how am I supposed to say? – want unfair stuff. [[Abg. Kößl: What does it mean to be “disgusting ”? That's a premise from your side!]] The fact is that half of the commentators of the national newspapers have understood this, but we take note of it. Although Mrs Fekter is not a political newcomer: It can happen once a mistake, and when it happens and that is clarified, then it is accepted. But, Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter – now she is gone; obviously she does not want to stand up for the debate – I ask you:... – Then please listen to me when you are on the move! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Is there anyway!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: (on the right front in the hall and again on the government bank pointing Federal Minister Dr. Fekter) Check out exactly!]] [[Abg. Kößl: [O Muhammad], that is a consequence.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: One meter!]] I ask you, Mrs Fekter: Where, then, are the mutual provocations different? – In this debate, you referred to the situation in Upper Austria, and I have considered: What could you say? Where is the “recital provocation” in that incident where the wall... – No, you did not listen to me. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Now he repeats it again!]] I accepted your clarification on the Ebensee concentration camp. See, Mrs. Federal Minister: don't walk, but listen! What is the provocation of that incident, where the Mauthausen concentration camp was lulled? [[Abg. Hornek: With your person!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: At the left chaots of the 1. May!]] I ask you: Where is the mutual provocation? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kößl: You and the fungus, you are...! ... against the police!]] Second point, Mrs Bundesminister, another incident in Upper Austria: The green countryman Gunther Trubswasser, a wheelchair driver, is threatened with murder on a Neonazi side. The wheelchair driver is called turbid water, and it says there: That deserves water from the water, and next to it a syringe is drawn. – This is a very clear reference to euthanasia. I ask you – it was an incident in Upper Austria –: Where is the ‘ mutual provocation’? Is it perhaps your opinion that provocation is seen in the fact that Mr Landtagsreiter has made an advertisement according to the Prohibition Act? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: At the left chaots of the 1. May!]] Is this the ‘ mutual provocation’? Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, your problem is quite clear: You have completely misestimated the situation, you have no reasonable explanations, and you cannot offer solutions in the case of the right-wing extreme criminal scene! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point, Mrs Bundesminister, is the murder of a Chechen asylum seekers. First, the authorities have failed to protect them. You said that first, that was denied. When this was no longer to be concealed, the Ministry of the Interior's crisis management started – and suddenly the killer was moved to the vicinity of the Mafia. – What did you want to do with it? Did this give the impression that such individuals are less protected or that they are themselves guilty? - I'll ask you that. Next point: Increase in burglary thefts. The solutions of the Federal Minister Fekter look such that the penalty limits are increased. Every jus student in the first semester – he makes sociology – knows that this does not help. Check there at the university, sit in the introduction lecture! [[Abg. (Kößl) fearful. That's terrible!]] Everyone knows that the deterrence that the danger of being caught is the biggest preventive measure, but there is exactly your problem if you have an information rate of 3.2 percent. [[Abg. Kößl: (newly pointing to the speaker)... unlikely!]] Another point where you, Mrs. Fekter, once again shone through “competence” was the “targeting” proposal to find out with an online search Amoklaufer before they run Amok. Again total ignorance, Mrs. Federal Minister! Since you should contact the sociologists in the first semester, they will tell you that these amok runners are usually completely inconspicuous. – Now I ask you: What do you want to do? Do you want to send a “Trojan” to every Austrian and every Austrian? Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, a unique panseries! They are only lucky: the whole situation is being topped by the Third President of the National Council. There is already a question of whether this is perhaps the reason why the EIA does not want to agree to a change in the Rules of Procedure because it lives very well with the fact that the Pannsserie is being overlaid by the Third President of the National Council Graf. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, if you take your withdrawal requests seriously, you will agree to a change in the Rules of Procedure. In two points, you are totally unbelievable: The first point is the ÖVP as a party that protects minority rights in Parliament – something more ridiculous we have never heard before – and the second point is the excuse with the “argument” regulation! Occasional legislation takes place again and again, because there are always reasons and occasions for changing laws. The bank package, is that in your view, according to event legislation? [[Abg. Head: Please read your own representative Walser!]] I ask you: Is the bank package occasion legislation? – Of course, it is an occasion legislation because we have an economic crisis! [[Abg. You have no idea! No idea at all! You confuse pears with apples!]] Please note: This EIA does not want to respond to political crises. You have to ask yourself the question: Are you standing before the Third President of the National Council Graf or behind the reputation of this Republic? [[Call the FPÖ:Yes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e79338	Before I give the floor to Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti, I would like to address Mr Peter Pilz, Mr Pilz, in an interlocutory call to Mr Vice-Chancellor: [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Pilz) Listen!]] “This is Hetze from the government bank!” and you have used the term “Austrofascism” in the direction of Mr. Vice Chancellor. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Pilz) Insanity! Step back! Get out of Parliament!]] – I disapprove of this form and grant you according to § 102 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[==References====External links== Dr. Pilz and Deputies of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP:... a shame!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: The mushroom is a shame to Parliament!]] Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e79434	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister and Secretary of State! High house! [[Ongoing calls and calls between Green MEPs and ÖVPs.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Mr Pilz, I really do not know whether I should be horrified at you and your group, whether I should laugh at it, or whether I should take this as a campaignist – because what you are doing here today is really unbearable! [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Horrified!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Pilz, now you've gone out, I'm sorry, but the allegations and allegations you're leaving here are really unbearable – and normally you should go and not other people! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] When I think of it alone: They call for the disclosure of dossiers and files here. – Well, then we will start with your act and your file once! And then you'll see how you've been acting for years, Mr. Pilz, namely: You're really a state pest! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] You are a danger to the population – and you want to...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e79526	Mrs Colleague, I give you the opportunity to take back this term and to formulate it differently.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e79541	Mr President, I would like to take note of this. You want to destabilise the order, Mr Pilz, and you want to destabilize the state. That's what you want – and nothing else! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] That our Federal Minister Dr. Fekter has done a good job in recent years, that is not just the statistics and the newspapers. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... the Metternich also attached to the dolphin?]] I quote: Vienna scores internationally with quality of life and prosperity. The international consultancy firm Mercer, which put the Federal Capital of Vienna at the top of the world among 215 comparable metropolises in terms of quality of life, drew 39 criteria. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Backboneless!]] Political, social, economic and environmental aspects played a role as well as personal safety, health, education and transport. - Quote. And: In 2007 we were third in number, in 2008 in second place and this year, we are number one. This shows that our minister is doing great work! And the criticism of the opposition goes completely empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e79598	Next speaker: Mr Mayerhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e79629	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What makes me happy at the beginning is that today so many young people have come to mind who have been able to convince themselves of the action and behaviour of a green Member on the ground. And they will come to their conclusions at the next elections, I am absolutely convinced of that! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I should like to put forward a motion for a resolution to improve the situation of very young police students, namely their income situation, which is urgently needed. Mr Mayerhofer, Mr Herbert, Mr Vilimsky and others have tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Windwood.]] Now about the state of emergency in Austria. The crime tornado moves through Austria, criminals overrun the country. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP.]] – What does this state mean? Who cares? And who needs action? – Ms Fekter, you need action, and it is a danger in delay. This state puts the citizens in fear and concern, and the executive in Austria is in alert. Since the opening of the East, this has become an emergency with the citizens you are responsible for with your security policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] - That's right. Let's come to the facts. The objectively recognizable explosion of burglary, robbery and theft get the citizens to feel massively. The long-lasting negation of these devastating facts – yes, colleague, you can disturb as you wish, “Mr. Chief Inspector”! – you have to blame yourself. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Gritish]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Members Grillitsch and Kößl]] And I should also like to draw your attention to the number of victims in the formerly safe, beautiful and quiet tourist country of Austria – because I always hear my colleague, Mr Hörl, with loud calls that take special care of tourism. [[Abg. May. Hakl: He does!]] Yes, the tourism industry in Austria will also be particularly damaged if this wave of crime is not inhibited and stopped. But now to the state of the safety executive. When will this Ministry of the Interior in ÖVP hand stop this crazy “police reform” for more than eight years? – The basic evil was the unaccepted precautionary duty in the area of the insufficient admission of police students to police schools. Why did you miss that? You just should have looked at it: When have the birth-like vintages been recorded?, and then you should have calculated, and then you could easily have determined the real needs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But there has been a saving on corners where there must be no savings, namely in the case of a basic need for the Austrian population, for security. It should be noted that: The decision whether a citizen should be included in the state of the executive – and that is what I am now saying on the topic of “politicist with migration background” – is not the question of whether a person has migration background or not, nor can it be whether a young colleague can support eleven or twelve lies, but only what basic setting he/she has on this profession. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And since, in turn, very much like this “guarder”, as it used to be called, the police student, stands to this state as a whole. I also say this particularly with regard to the incidents at various fishing celebrations and in the performance of vows at fishing celebrations in the military. On police work: Police generally do not want to become administrative officials. They want to stay police; for that they have been taken up. This is usually the case – I am not speaking now of the injured or sick or partially ill police officers who have to withdraw. Police want to be led by leaders who have social competence, and not by media-spoken despots, who - and this for years - annoy whole hundreds of police officers. If committed police have the wrong to have a political opinion that does not cover itself with that of the ÖVP, then the most diligent police officer is then and when and ever more often not appropriate. This is a stupid story, but – I would like to say – it is massively unfair and makes the mood in the corps together. I would also like to say that. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] If the underestimation of police officers becomes so extreme when physical attacks are to be done on a policeman with 100 € in the way of a division, this also shows a certain attitude of this leadership – and these laws that have been passed here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not particularly motivating for a criminal official who really works up in the crime scene and does great investigation work, if he needs to know that due to lack of money obductions are not carried out. And here I also quote a president of judicial medicine, who said, the city will soon become “an optimal region for the perfect murder. ” – This is the conclusion, Mrs. Minister. And these are not gratifying states, but that is really suspicious security policy – and this will not please Austrian citizens. Your security policy, Mrs Fekter, does not fit into this time! You didn't respond! We'll ask you to do this! And I ask you to conclude – and perhaps also the gentlemen up there: The organ mandate is not a proof of activity! He's out! With these labour values and key figures, may we be able to do the work that is now often and very, very common: Intrusion, theft and these things belong to appropriate key figures – and not how many moped drivers I have on the circular “skinning”. [[In the case of the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Commission of the European Communities and the European Economic and ……]] That can't be! This is annoyed by the Austrian population! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e79767	The request just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e79825	Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti, the chance that you will take back the use of the word “state pest” towards Peter Pilz, has not been used. I therefore give you a call for an order and cordially invite all the ladies and gentlemen not to ignore the good practices of dialogue with great commitment to this chapter inside. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] [[Abg. Singer: (in the direction of the "Nicking" of the "Ormskauf" (Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti) “I take this call for order and I am proud of it!”, Ms. Fürntrath! - Congratulations!]] Next, Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e79878	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Right ahead of the Green Group: As an officer of the Austrian security executive, I would like to be vehement and strongly opposed to the accusation that the Austrian police are tending to be racist. [[In the case of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as members of the FPÖ and the Agg. Windwood.]] I would ask you to take note of this. That's not fair. And I was just thinking that in recent years the Greens have also changed their opinion on this – but they are on the best way to fall back into the time when in the 1990s they showed with the “striking hubs of the nation” what attitude they have to the Austrian police. But maybe that'll change too. I would like to say to the liberals: Mr Mayerhofer, of course I can imagine that you have a problem with the fact that there should be migrants at the police. But I think this is an outstanding and very important idea and it is necessary. And if you have nothing else to do with the fight against crime – and it is simply so, nothing else comes from your side – than to blame the asylum seekers and rebuild walls that have been torn down effortlessly – we are now celebrating 20 years of fall of the Berlin Wall – then this is not really a serious contribution. That is not how we proceed in the fight against crime! That won't help us at all. I therefore believe that through these methods we are increasingly leading our country into isolation, and we are not only contributing to the fight against crime, but also to the fact that social security, namely in terms of the economy and jobs, is being lost by the isolation of our country. And unfortunately that is the case. Mrs Bundesminister, a thank you also for the fact that there is more executive officials that there will also be more budgetary resources for further education and training. The Security Academy has been more taught. The Master's degree is necessary and important – it has been discussed intensively ten years ago, but unfortunately it has not been implemented – because here too the principle is: Education is the key to success. We must not forget, however, that the health aspects of the Austrian police must also be taken into account. There should not be any increase in the burden of work, burn-out is more and more on the agenda. We must ensure that this hamster wheel topic, where the police work and work and do not know how it goes on, is mitigated by simple measures, and, Mrs. Federal Minister, above all, you should also go to the leadership level of police officers on the ground, because there are good proposals here. But I think we are – as I have heard today from you – on the best way there. There's nothing to do with making a distrust request here now. The BZÖ stands out here and makes the Bock a gardener by allowing Mr Westenthaler to philosophy about Austrian security policy, ladies and gentlemen. I think that's a number – with the best of will – that's what makes you laugh. In this sense, I would like to thank you and also thank you very much for the excellent work done by the police in these times, which are also dangerous times – we have heard, there are also many injured ones.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e79936	I shall give the floor to Mr Oellinger for an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e79960	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fazekas, in his speech, said that the Greens had called the work of the police racist or tendingly racist. I should like to make the right point, Mr Deputies: Mr Vilimsky, in his speech today, has raised the same accusations as you to the address of the Greens and has already been corrected. Mr Fazekas, you too: You should listen and not just take over what the FPÖ tells you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e79999	The next speaker is Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80020	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs Fekter, I cannot spare you the accusation of polemization. They blame us on our motion for a resolution on enhanced border controls, we wanted to rebuild walls, we wanted to raise borders again. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Sure!]] – It’s just missing that you’re going to assume that you’re going to pick up the iron curtain again. Mrs Fekter, you know exactly what we are asking for, and if you have any idea of matter, you know that we want more border controls, i.e., sporadically at the border crossings. This has also been done with the EURO, which has also been done at the World Cup in Germany, and the successes have been very good. That proves that we are right on this point. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I see on and read that today's paper says: ‘Alarm: 38 percent more car thefts” – mainly in Vienna. Where are these cars being spent? How are these moved? I'll tell you about an example from Vorarlberg. There a truck from Pfeiffer has been stolen, it has been transported to Belarus. There the owner found him and had to cause him to be expensive. – This is how the security system works in Austria. Mrs Minister, this is the wrong way! But I would also like to say something about burglary thefts. Mrs. Minister, in Vorarlberg, there was a serial breaker recently, in mid-May, better said there were several. They happened to travel to Vorarlberg on a stolen vehicle from Italy. These were gentlemen from Moldova, these gentlemen were already there in autumn, or in winter. And now that's what I'd like to give you. In Vorarlberg you have carried out a really legendary, very good police action: A warrant was carried out with the unit, the police school was involved, there were a lot of police officers on the street and hunted these serial breakers. With the success – you have to count the police in Vorarlberg very high – she has caught one of these perpetrators. But that cost a lot of overtime, people. If you want to get into this There is no investment in the budget in the area, so such funds will no longer be available for future intrusion series. And we know where that will lead. Then these rulers can leave 1: 1 – border controls are no longer available – and continue their work. Mrs Minister, this is absolutely the wrong way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What's particularly bothering me: With each problem, you come with “1,000 police more by the year 2013. ” – Mrs Minister, these 1,000 police officers must stand for so many things that they must be burned up and sent to retirement before they get out of school. It's an insanity what you're putting on these people! Now I would like to talk about asylum issues. This is also the subject of our motion for a resolution. Mr Stadler and I were in the EU Subcommittee at the time and warned you to agree to these EU asylum directives. We have tabled a motion for a resolution, but it has been rejected by the EIA-SPÖ majority. And now you wonder – where is the Lord's head?Use custom fonts; Mr. Kopf is not here, he will have his reasons – what ÖVP says in Vorarlberg: ‘ÖVP submits its own application for asylum policy (...) EU decision at the beginning of May (...) Among other things, asylum seekers are expected to obtain work permits after half a year. (...) Pushing back the easings (...) The state government – and there is the ÖVP in coalition with the FPÖ – “will urge the Federal Government to demand that asylum locks be withdrawn within the EU. The applications are also identical in content...’. The FPÖ has submitted its own application, and then the ÖVP felt obliged to submit one too. And now it's about a point you took over from me: In my speech at the National Convention in Vorarlberg, I mentioned that criminal perpetrators, asylum seekers, must be sentenced more quickly and then reduced. This is also contained in this request. Mrs Minister, we can't be so wrong! If the ÖVP requests this with a request in the Vorarlberger Landtag – by chance we have country elections there – then the Federal ÖVP would have to go here, have the backbone and say: Yes, we agree with this motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Budgets, it is correct. Now I would like to address another problem. You have seen the problem with the asylum seekers in Vienna. This time it was Indian, the last time it was Chechens, murders and nods. What's going on? – I didn’t see you trying to improve anything here. Many of these asylum seekers have only arrived, which must have been postponed for a long time. So something's wrong here, Mrs. Minister. In this respect, you have clearly failed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to give you a small example from the practice, from the Burgenland, because the border controls and the assistance of the German army are again in the conversation. I hear from the local population what this assistance brings: The Germans patrol with the weapon for self-defense, but they are not allowed to do any more. You write down a few marks and you report that to the police. – If one is always talking about the security feeling and then looks like security so that when a citizen country mowers the lawn in front of the house and he turns off the lawn mower because he goes into the toilet for a short time, and when he comes out again, the lawn mower is no longer there, then there is something wrong, Mrs. Minister. There must be done! Finally, I would like to say to you: Today we have the world digestion day, I have heard on the radio – this budget is not digestible.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80091	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80112	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! It is apologised that there was nothing constructive from the opposition until now, but only criticism and panic. Allow me some thoughts on the two requests for distrust. At Mrs Korun's speech, there was nothing surprising about it, the speech qualified itself. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It was excellent!]] The BZÖ's request for distrust. Mr Stadler is in himself a very good speaker, but today I had the impression that he was relatively inhibited in his explanatory statement of the motion for a reluctance. It is likely that the bad conscience has gone through, because the mistrust request is only because of that. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that blue and green do not find anything appropriate to the work of our Mrs Federal Ministers shows that this work cannot be so bad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Right-hand or left-hand chaots and harmless: I would like to see a little more objectivity and balance in the discussion and reporting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] For example, if I were to report on the demonstration on 1st. May think in Linz, so I have to say: The FPÖ is only too happy to blink with the right eye, while the dark spot in the left eye of the greens continues on. I will not let go of the impression that both parties must cover in-depth weaknesses with populism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, I should like to refer once again to the successes of our Federal Minister, Dr. Fekter, and to the good outcome of the negotiations that she has achieved. €200 million more this year, €219 million more next year, which shows that there are real opportunities, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, in the field of personnel. The additional recordings in the executive sector, for example, will allow 400 officials to make more service in Upper Austria in the next few years. One more thought on the asylum area. The additional posts in the field of asylum will allow for faster processing of applications, which is very valuable. I come from a community where we have been hosting asylum seekers for decades. I could tell you a lot about this – time is not enough – even about personal fates. I know asylum seekers who really want to integrate, even so far that they volunteer in associations. We would like them to be able to remain in Austria too, i.e. a positive outcome of their asylum process. I experience day after day how these people also suffer from uncertainty. It is once again in the state to help. It is not long ago that we have decided on additional possibilities in the right to stay with regard to humanitarian stay. How many applications have been submitted so far? – Two applications! That means, no more and no less: Some good people like to talk, but if it gets serious, then they're gone again. However, to our Federal Minister Fekter is left. I thank you for your commitment and for your commitment to the benefit of our security, and our Minister of Finance, Mr Pröll, thank you for keeping his word.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80180	Mr Herbert is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80201	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Let me begin with the following statement: An association, such as Amnesty International, throws the police, but also the prosecutor's office and the courts, but especially the police – whose profession I also belong to – present institutional racism and presents it publicly placid into space. – I can tell you that, as I have said, this is not only an unsustainable assumption, but also a lack of any objective basis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the downgrading of a profession – which, as I said, I am also a member of and also personally affected – and therefore strongly reject it. But it is also evident in the whole debate – what I have heard here from my previous speakers and from reactions to this – that there has obviously not been much change in the problematic access of the Greens to police and state power. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Greens have clearly indicated here that they welcome this report in a benevolent and unanimous manner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] [[Abg. May. Korun: That's where incidents are called!]] But now on the real topic. Mr Hübner mentioned earlier in his speech that fundamental changes to the rules and conditions in the interior area are absolutely necessary. I not only agree with him in this regard, but I would also like to take this into account in the field of safety executives. Especially in the field of security executives, it would be urgently necessary to design the framework conditions for large cities and agglomerations – here, in particular, Vienna – in such a way that one could finally effectively combat those exploding crime figures in the statistics, with appropriate personnel and material effort. Instead of comparing Vienna, as before, with the other eight federal states – with their rural police structures – we should put this in the foreground so that not much effective work of the executive, done here by the police to an extraordinary extent. In particular, it would be necessary to address this metropolitan, problematic crime situation. It is clear that in a large city, in an agglomeration centre, it is not possible to react with rural police structures, as they are currently mentioned in the Security Police Act. But this also means that the police are finally relieved of the superfluous office and administration activities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are a major obstacle to the implementation of the core police tasks, namely police executives, stripping, and prevention work, which is becoming increasingly important. The population also has a right to find a police officer, a police officer who does not suffocate in the administrative jungle. In addition, it is also important that this additional effort, which is becoming increasingly involved in those services – regardless of whether this additional burden is being incurred in a conurbation centre, in Vienna or also at a service in the rural area – is finally calculated and offers a material and also an ideal incentive in the form of an allowance. It takes into account the need for a better remuneration to take place on these services, in which more work is done – regardless of whether this takes place in the country, in the city, in an agglomeration centre, in Vienna or elsewhere. That would be an important approach. In addition, I do not wish to mention one more point. With regard to those service, remuneration, but also pension requirements, which involve an executive service, which also includes many activities on Sundays and holidays or a large part of the service during the night, the design must finally be carried out in such a way that it continues to be carried out after the end of the service period. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Bundesminister, I can invite you to support this request also in the department, and hope that we may find a way together, perhaps, how we can effectively combat the exodus of crime – especially in Vienna – in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80287	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80348	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80369	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners! This debate shows very impressively that security moves people – be it here in the house, but especially the people at home. If you listen to these emotional debates here in Parliament today, and if you realize, above all, that many people are constantly addressing the sense of security on the one hand and, on the other hand, of course, also the increasing level of crime – that is not a question – you have to take this development seriously. [[Abg. Grosz: Especially your “emotional” speech!]] You have to take people seriously, especially. I think we all agree. But I am not the opinion of the opposition, which always thinks that problems that exist not only in Austria, but also internationally, can be solved with polemics. I don't think of it either, if you keep building up enemy images and simply saying flat-rate that all foreigners are criminal. [[Abg. Singer: We don't say that anyway!]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: You got it wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is very dangerous for a society because it divides a society. I think you should be more aware of this in your choice of words. Mr Hübner spoke today about the numbers of asylum seekers, has referred to asylum applications and recognitions. I would like to tell you, Mr Hübner, that this does not mean that these people are all criminal. That's not what it means! That means they sought asylum in Austria. And if they get asylum, there are good reasons for that. You should think about it once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] I don't want to talk about this – really not! – but I invite you to a differentiated discussion, which I consider extremely necessary in this area. I also believe that it is necessary to create proper working conditions for police officers. You have to relieve them of administrative tasks. That is also necessary. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Bravo!]] There must also be staff increases. They are also necessary. All this is happening now. If you look at the budget, you'll see that we have more money in the interior. There is €100 million more this year. We thus have a budget of €2.34 billion available this year, and next year we will increase again: €2.36 billion. That is nothing, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. [[Abg. Grosz: That's nothing!]] - No, I don't. You will see, Mr Grosz, this increase and the implementation of the flexipool and the karenz pool will help the police to find better working conditions, to relieve them, to actually make their contribution to the fight against crime, and to ensure that they can do so. This is what we all want, because the sense of security is one that we really need to give to people. And you just can't take that on your light shoulder.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80480	Mr Grosz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80501	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I may make the following request at the beginning: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Stadler has the The content of this request is already explained in detail in its statement at the beginning of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Hornek has put himself on this speaker's floor and has tried to explain Mrs Fekter's security policy. All that was left with me was the following statement: The criticism of the BZÖ cannot be voted because Peter Westenthaler has had a process on his neck for two and a half years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] This gives me an opportunity – and I am very grateful to you for this statement; I am also grateful that the Minister of Justice is here today – not to talk about this process, but about the judicial administration in this country, on the basis of an example. The case of the Thüringer Prime Minister Dieter Althaus is certainly known to you. This Prime Minister has caused the death of a woman and mother by whatever circumstances, and that is why a child is half orphan and a man widower. The trial, which has been handled by your judicial administration, Mrs. Minister, within a few weeks, has come to the conclusion that it is apparently punishable and tax-free in this country that one can cause the death of a person and, without further scandal, pay €33,300 in transit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian judicial authority for law enforcement is worth a life of 33,300 €, including pain money of 5 000 €, and a process of 24 hours. [[Abg. Eßl: That's absolute nonsense!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen Hornek, we have been experiencing a political process in this country for two and a half years because of a supposed false statement that took place two and a half years ago, with media coverage, and I am already wondering: Do we really have no other problems in this system of judicial administration and law enforcement, and also in executive service, than to constantly abuse the judicial system to cool the moth, as you, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, do?- Oh, my God! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] As we are now talking about party-political influence, Mrs. Inner Minister, I would like to point you out the following – keep cool! [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hornek]] Drink milk! Let rest! –: The Council of Europe's report clearly identifies the party-political impact on the executive authorities in Austria, particularly in the area of anti-corruption and other areas. This report by the Council of Europe, which is on the table, is a printed proof, Mrs Innenminister, that, instead of taking care of the security of Austrians, you are daily, every day fumbling how you can take the executive in Austria into political hostagery. [[keeping a manuscript in height]] That's your kind of security policy! And we will certainly not support these. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Crime is on the rise! – Clubobmann head, reality as always: Crime is falling! – Peter Westenthaler, here at this pult: [[Abg. Hornek: This is a fact!]] Crime is on the rise! About 200 000 committed crimes in the first quarter of 2009. – And the SPÖ’s defense argument: Well, it was only 195,000 crimes in the first quarter of this year that were reported! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Yes, Mr Maier, are you still to be saved?- Oh, my God! As you are dealing with 195,000 crimes displayed in the first half of the year that have been directed against Austrians... [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: You are a demagogue!]] What kind of morale and security need do you have, what do you think, how to protect Austrians in Austria? The crime rate has been increasing since 2008, with the arrival date of this Minister. And Klubobmann's head was perfectly right: The crime rate fell slightly by 2008! But then there came Minister of the Interior Fekter, and the crime rate has increased. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] That's what statistics say that can't even falsify you. While crime explodes, Minister of the Interior Fekter abuses the executive for her party policy purposes. [[Abg. Amon: Mr Grosz, is it a little more serious?]] That is a fact, and this also confirms our mistrust that we are bringing in here today. Finally, a few words about my understanding of the ministerial selection here in Austria. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Measure blood pressure!]] – Dear ladies and gentlemen, stay calm! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I fully understand that we in Austria have entrusted an excellent entrepreneur, a successful Styrian entrepreneur, Martin Bartenstein, with the role of the Minister of Economic Affairs more than 10 years ago. That makes sense. That's solid. That's what I'm talking about. You can stand up to your policy, no matter how you want, but it is coherent. The intermediate, the preliminary experience he brought with him. It also informs me that a judge has been entrusted with the judicial administration in that country. That makes sense to me. She has the preliminary experience, she comes as an independent judge from an important pillar of the state, and she is now the supreme lawyer of our system. That's what I'm talking about. I also understand that we had a foreign minister in Austria, Ursula Plassnik – you can calmly clap once if I introduce Bandion-Ortner, Bartenstein and Plassnik here, or have you already agreed by your own Members? – who is an excellent, recognized diplomat. It was, of course, appropriate to be Foreign Minister of this Republic. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller.]] Also that Mr Matznetter was the Secretary of State for Finance is logical and gives me some insight. He then failed politically, but he paid the contribution to the office of a finance secretary because he came out of the profession of a tax advisor. That he was apparently a cave worse is another chapter. Mrs Fekter, do you now explain to me what you have been able to do in this ministry to lead the presidency? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Explain to me in a long lifetime as a professional politician without any idea of practice and reality what has enabled you to be the head of the Interior and Security Department of this Republic! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hornek and Mr Ing. Kapeller.]] The only thing that has enabled you to do so is to have yourself, Mrs Fekter, become the victim of a theft. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] But far from it, with your qualification, it really can't be if we have an interior minister in this Republic who has failed throughout the course. That's why I'm looking for you: At last free us from your policies! Step back and open the way for a resort tour that really takes the security needs of the Austrians seriously! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80730	The application submitted is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80804	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80825	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! I will not let go of the feeling that Mr Grosz, when he comes to the speaker's desk, does not want to deal with content, but wants to provocation. This is how everyone is distinguished in his activity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the subject of security, which is now on the agenda. Mrs. Federal Minister, your statement, which you have made here once again, is nothing more to add, they are clear, they are striking, and it is clear that Austria, as a minister for security in Austria, does not need to be afraid of you. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] Because the opposition parties, in particular the BZÖ, have said here that Austria is so uncertain, I would like to refer to the many newspaper reports from the last few weeks, where Vienna is the safest, most vital city and where Austria and Bavaria speak as the safest countries. [[Abg. Grosz: Sure not, most worth living!]] I ask you: No matter where we go in this world, can we go somewhere in this world as quietly and as comfortably during the night through a big city as it is in Vienna? Let's be honest and admit that nowhere – and everyone will confirm it – is so safe and that you don't feel as secure as you do with us in Austria! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria is a tourist country where – and one of Austria’s main advertising agents is “The Safe Austria” – you can feel safe on holiday. There are no hotels with security forces going up and down the street so that tourists can feel safe. We in Austria do not need this because we are a safe country! And that with you, Mrs Minister, Austria will continue to remain one of the safest countries in the world, of which we are sure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I would like to remind Mr Grosz of a statement from him – I quote from the Stenographical Protocol of 19. May 2009, that is not too long ago; I would also like to ask the President to review this – where he said: “In fact, it is now more profitable to pursue burglary as an appeal than to practice a decent profession in that country.” [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 3 percent education rate!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if this is preached outside, if one of the highest representatives of this state tells the people that in this state it is more profitable to carry out criminal actions than to practice an ordinary profession, then I really must say: For me, this is a call for criminal action! I believe that this is a criminal offence. [[Abg. Grosz: 3 percent education rate! That's it! Yes, it is!]] Mr Grosz, be aware of your responsibility! Estimate our decent and safe Austria! Don't follow it abroad! Let us be proud that we live in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80915	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e80937	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor claimed that Austria is a safe country. - I don't think so. Austria is not a safe country! You don’t have to take the “Kronen Zeitung” from yesterday and read it there: 90 Break-ins and no one explained, to know that the security situation is by no means the way you have found it beautiful here. We must note that since the opening of the east borders and the opening of the eastern borders and the south-east borders of this country have become more uncertain, because organized bands from the south-east are flooding our country. You must also note that more than half of the prisoners in Austria who are in prisons are foreigners. And if you add those who recently have an Austrian passport, the so-called migrants, then it's more than half. The rate of information on crime, ladies and gentlemen, is falling. The murders of the Sikhs last week have proved that the multicultural society, which in particular the Greens always praise as a model, is in fact a multi-criminal society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, those who have approved the immigration flood of the last 15 years are, of course, also responsible for increasing crime in that country. A commentator from the “Kronen Zeitung” found this to be quite correct yesterday. But also among the domestics, the politically motivated violence is constantly increasing. It is always – and that is what I see from the speaker's mouth of this National Council – extreme, left-wing, green, communist student organizations that are violently obsessive. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Hello!]] It is always left-wing groups, the so-called, the self-proclaimed antifascists who interfere with the rallys of democratic parties, such as the Freedom Party, and who take action against political dissidents. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] I have never heard that students of the RFS or members of the Freedom Youth ring are acting like your clients, for example, at Graz's main square. Last Friday, for example, the left-green mob at Grazer Hauptplatz has re-emerged. There was an event of the Freedom Party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] And this time too, stones flown, eggs flown. There were again left-left, so people who are close to your clientele, your political party. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany May. Steinhauser]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you know exactly what I am talking about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There came to tumults. A young man was injured in Graz in the Schmiedgasse. Police inspection has locked in for its own security. Mrs Bundesminister, we ask ourselves: Why is this always happening in Graz, while other Styrian cities are safe at our events? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] We expect you, Mrs. Federal Minister, not to respond with party-politically motivated joy to these abuses, but to really follow our ads and also... – Mrs. Federal Minister, that will be [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter speaks to the next to her sitting Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner.]] You can't wait to talk to your neighbors, and you can't listen to the Members. I notice: The Freedom Party is a constitutional and a law-reliance party, we are not a free will in this Republic. Make sure that our events are protected – before we have to take this protection into our own hands!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e81041	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e81063	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Kurzmann, I hope...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e81099	Excuse me, Mr. Kurzmann. Mr Heinzl has the right to be heard. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann goes back to his seat.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e81127	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to say to Mr Kurzmann: I hope that we do not have to take your conclusion as a threat that you will take over security in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I just wanted to make it clear! So no threat? [[Abg. Singer: Come with us for our events!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] They leave the internal security of Mrs Fekter and the executive. If you think so, I agree with your opinion, because there she is in good hands, Mr Kurzmann. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunately a fact that the number of burglaries in Austria has increased enormously this year. I would just like to give an example from my hometown of St. Pölten: Every day in St. Pölten, in the conurbation centre of Lower Austria, there are on average three burglaries, and people are truly suffering daily from the increased crime. I believe that it should be our common goal to avoid further damage from the population and also to relieve officials on duty. High house! From the year 2000 to 2009, 70 urgently necessary police officers were dismantled in St. Pölten alone. And, Mrs Fekter, in the context of the budget debates, you have announced that you will ensure that in the near future 1,000 new police officers will be trained and put into service. I urge you to hire 50 of these new police officers in St. Pölten! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The crime knows no bounds. The fight against international crime also calls for international cooperation in the fight against crime. I would like to say once again from this speaker's point of view: It was good and right that German Chancellor Werner Faymann and our Federal Minister Dr. Spindelegger spoke together to the European Commission this week on the issue of “security across Europe” and also on the topic of “internal security in Austria”. It is a command of the hour to strengthen the EU's external borders. Finally, I would also like to thank the police for their really important and sacrificing work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e81191	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e81213	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs Israël (PPE). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report. And that's why you're smiling very much, very much, valued woman interior minister on the government bank. But if we look at the exploding crime figures, there's really nothing to laugh at. The facts, ladies and gentlemen, are depressing. It's high season for breakers and pickers. 21 300 Intrusions in the first quarter of this year – that's a lot! That means 240 breakdowns a day. Now, every six minutes will be broken in. The population is worried and afraid of their property. The collapses in single-family houses in Styria alone have increased by 43 percent this year. 43 percent increase in typhoid breaks in Styria! The low reconnaissance rate, ladies and gentlemen, animated in addition to burglary. These numbers I have now mentioned impressively confirm that the alarm bells have long been ringing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The alarm bells should ring with you on the government bank because in recent years SPÖ and ÖVP have failed together with their security policy. [[Abg. Grosz: That's it! Impressive!]] You, Mrs. Fekter, have made a break-in paradise with your party colleagues Strasser and Platter and the previous red Interior Ministers with their open borders Austria. A self-service shop was created here. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a missing security policy to the detriment of our country. That's incredible! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What are you responsible for, Mrs. Interior Minister? – More and more groups of perpetrators are moving their field of action to the West to make rich prey. They are well organized, cheeky, lightning fast, and beat as burglars. It is brutally spitted out, and the raids are becoming more and more threesome. The collapses are occurring in agglomerations and are increasing near the border, because the thief can be spent quickly. As an example, I can cite the offences in the small border town of Bad Radkersburg. This spa town with spas and tourism companies has become a self-service shop for criminals and thieves! This has been repeated in hotels in the last few weeks. The new park café has been broken in. An armed and masked robbery was carried out on the bet café. Imagine today at the border: an armed and masked robbery! But what really hits the barrel is the thing that happened on the construction site for the new deployment center. There a construction crane was partially disassembled, of which the supports and the coloured metal were stolen. It is likely that the perpetrators quickly transported their prey over the near open border. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Here a carefully controlled external border would have prevented the collapse or made a little more difficult. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we call for the reintroduction of border controls. We have said this several times: Border controls have been reintroduced, and 5,000 police officers have to be employed in the middle of Austria in the medium term. Finally, a sentence on your definition of quality of life, Mrs. Federal Minister: They want to maintain quality of life in the border area. Then I may ask you to open the new operational center on Friday, 5th. June 2009, at 3 p.m., come to Bad Radkersburg. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Grosz.]] This appointment has been coordinated with you. There you can talk to the affected population, the population will open up their hearts to you, and you will tell her what is happening. There are problems there that citizens want more protection. The citizens there are afraid of their possessions and good. That's how it looks in the Styria!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e81277	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e81301	Mr President. My dear ministers! Mr Minister and Secretary of State! Mr President, 3 minutes to speak on this issue is a little short. [[Abg. Grosz: Then leave it!]] But I will try – after initial answers that are to be given – also to argue objectively. Mr Colonel List, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for your impressive holiday report from Johannesburg, because what you have been talking about now must be Johannesburg; this city does not exist in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Grosz, you are right! [[Abg. Grosz: The crocodile then snaps back to...!]] As a business administrator, as a lawyer and as a long-term national councillor, our wife, Minister of the Interior, is fully integrated into the series of the outstanding ÖVP ministers presented by you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What training and training should there be for the management of the interior? [[Abg. Grosz: Maybe a polity?]] I really want to know. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Dear Mr. Grosz, what profession do you exercise that you have the ability – according to your own words – to talk to us about security and internals? – We would like to know quite clearly about you. [[Abg. Grosz: As a crime victim! I broke into my apartment twice! A car break-in, two house break-ins! Thank you, Mrs. Interior Minister!]] [[Further calls.]] Now to colleagues from the Greens. I would like to mention quite clearly – there are not very many of the Green colleagues here in the hall –: You are not the moral authority that you always tell us what is right and what is wrong here in this House! They're too much. It is not possible to take hostage the entire political spectrum represented in this House! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I understand you, because your next request will not be the replacement of President Graf, and not the replacement of Mrs Federal Minister, but your next project will be to get a two-thirds majority in order to lift the four-percent stand for entry into the National Council, as the electorate will run away from you. You want to bring these people on so that you can use this chair for yourself, that is fact and also fact! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Now on the real issue and also on you, Mr Westenthaler, if you still support this mistrust request by your party against the Federal Minister: You too are contributing to the fulfillment of criminal statistics! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where? Where? Well, where?]] I would like to give you an example, my dear colleague. You're registered in a case, but you're certainly not a threat to this republic, I know. [[Abg. Grosz: But the threat to the Republic is on the government bank!]] Therefore, you need to read the criminal statistical figures and the numbers of the monitor as they can be read. If both you and colleague Hagen mention the exploding number of autocrime published in the newspaper “Today” – a 38 percent increase in Vienna – then the numbers from the criminal monitor are recorded in a minute. If a crime is displayed, it appears there. Of the car thefts in Vienna, for example, 27 percent are cleared or set to zero in the four following hours, for two very simple reasons: 27 percent of the “stolen” vehicles in Vienna are either picked up in Erdberg because they are towed off, and have therefore disappeared from the monitor in four hours, or – and this is also a measurable fact – the woman takes the second key and takes away the car of the drunk man. These are facts! [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] In addition, Mr Peter Westenthaler, on the burden of crime in Burgenland: In 1998 there were 11 000 crimes; in 2008 there were 9 000 crimes. There, crime will decline as it is generally valid for Austria: Theft by burglary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[The speaker shows a graph with a diagram that represents a falling trend.]] If you look at these red lines – and we would have an annual criminal statistics and would not be so publicly effective in our police system that we are staging monthly – you will see a linear decline from 2004 with more than 13 000 burglary thefts until this April with just over 9 000 burglary thefts. [[Abg. Street: Are you talking to your colleagues?]] That's a fact! [[Abg. Grosz: Is that a fever curve?]] You, too, Mr. Strache, confuse the numbers of the monitor in an unfair way with the crime statistics and use the number you just fit to insure the people in our country. [[Abg. Strache: Talk to your executive colleagues!]] [[Abg. Strache: Do not sell your executive colleagues for stupid!]] I ask you to stop the uncertainty policy, because the time of the crisis is not enough for people in our country to be insecure! To do this, it is also not necessary that you constantly pour security policy, security police oil into the fire. [[Abg. Strache: The break-ins are increasing! Increase dramatically!]] I would also have a request: They are increasingly talking about more police officers, more forces, the excellent work of the police – but they are making vice versa You do this work with your statements at the same time bad! [[Abg. The police are being abandoned, Mr. Colleague!]] I only know one thing: The police are on the right track with Maria Fekter. [[Abg. Grosz: On the wood road! God protect Austria!]] The numbers of the crime burden are declining, and you will use the numbers that are correct in future, and not just polemic!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e81596	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e81618	Mr. Kapeller, you are police representatives, and therefore it is already funny that you do not know what your own police say about your minister. Double-sided in ‘Austria’: “Police Uprising.” [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Your own police union representatives say that serious mistakes have been made in the Ministry of the Interior following the opening of the Schengen border because they have not responded because they have done nothing because you, Mrs Fekter, and Mr Strasser, have broken the police. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller.]] And you, as a police representative, are still defending it – that's an immeasurable one! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The police outside will know what they have to do with you, Mr. Colleague. Ms Fekter: The motion for a reluctance is also based on another facet that I can finally address today, namely the Causa Mensdorff, in which Mrs Fekter remains inactive. [[Abg. Grosz: A giant ÖVP scandal!]] I understand that you remain inactive, because this is an ÖVP scandal, in which you are not only involved, but also Minister Ernst Strasser, your predecessor, who in the Causa Mensdorff not only has a few bodies in the basement, but whole cemeteries! [[Abg. Grosz: Greyish! Deceptively!]] And the ÖVP is trying to cover it up. An up-to-date example is found in the daily “Today”, on whose front page today reads: Fall Mensdorff – Judge in the visor. The judge at the public prosecutor's office. – In that respect, I am also pleased that the Minister of Justice is here today. The Minister for Justice writes in the reply of a parliamentary question, which I have put to a judge, who – like ÖVP people – has invited himself from Mr Mensdorff to various hunting events that she has responded in the form – and this has to be imagined! – that she has forwarded these documents and this request to the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna. [[Abg. Grosz: Black Politjustiz!]] That is, the Minister of Justice must turn justice against a person of the judiciary! It has come so far in this country! [[Abg. Grosz: This is the black political justice!]] This also shows the drama of this causa and also the drama of the ÖVP, which is massively involved in this causa Mr. Ita, who can be invited; [[Abg. Grosz: And that in the 21st century. 19th century!]] Mr Ulmer, who is invited and now manages the EU election campaign for Mr Straster; [[Abg. Grosz: There are the Chinese more democratic!]] Mrs Doris Ita, who is still in the ministry today; Members of the Schüssel Cabinet, all of whom were with Mr Mensdorff, ask again and again what advantages Mr Mensdorff has had in order to maintain such intense contacts with Mr Strasser, for example. [[Abg. Grosz:... perhaps the woman minister will also show you once so that she knows how her policy looks!]] Why did he do that? – The Minister has also indicated that the investigations are under way. What do you have to hide at this Causa, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? [[Abg. Amon:... what you brought!]] People outside need to know that the ÖVP is always in contact with people and that the former Minister Strasser is in contact with people who are in charge of justice, who are being arrested, and that the Minister, the current Minister named Maria Fekter, refuses to inform persons who have the public prosecutor's office in high functions of the ministry, such as Mrs Doris Ita, against whom you have not done so far, although investigations are running and there are records. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: This is a submission, Mr Petzner! That's a premise!]] There you are just as delicate as in the area of crime control, as in the area of reintroducing border controls in the sense of the security of Austrians, as in the area of finally implementing the reform in the area of police, and urgently ensuring that we get more police again. You don't do all that, you refuse it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They say it's all wonderful, there's no problem anyway; Mr. Kopf says that crime is falling. – It’s all peace, joy, eggcake! People outside don't believe that. They no longer feel secure in their own four walls, because they experience every day and get involved in their environment, that they are constantly breaking in, that the number of crimes is increasing, and that Austria is becoming increasingly insecure. That is why I agree with the demand that Mr Grosz has already formulated: Mrs Minister, step back, in the sense of the security of the Austrians and Austrians and also in the sense of the police, who urgently need the help of politics and who has to make up for what you and your predecessor, Minister Ernst Strasser, have done!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e81814	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e81835	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Dear ladies, dear Lord on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated guests at the gallery! High house! Before working as a member of the National Council, I worked with the Vienna Police for around 26 years in various functions and departments. That is why I know many dedicated police officers – the correct name is “use officials” – who tirelessly ensure security in our country every day and every day. During these 26 years, I experienced a time when sufficient personnel and resources were available. However, I have also experienced the fact that staff and resources have been continuously reduced. [[Abg. Grosz: Under Straster!]] Estimated Minister of the Interior, especially your predecessors have broken down a lot of porcelain, especially at the Vienna police. They were also given a happy police reform in Vienna. However, I must state very clearly that this Federal Government and the Federal Minister have recognised these issues and are working with full commitment to their resolution. The Government Convention therefore also provides for 1 000 officials for training. Dear Minister, you're making important strategy decisions. They have responded quickly so that priorities can be Vienna will be set up and increased service allocations will be carried out from the federal states. You have also addressed the offensive in the security of tracks – especially in Vienna there are 130 specialists in the state criminal office – and you have made sure that relatively quickly special tracers – they are 320 – are trained and used. More staff in the search for tracks leads to more intensive search and better evidence. This is very important in today's time and therefore more money and more staff are being made available for the DNA analysis. It is therefore necessary to ensure that all traces are evaluated even in the event of unexplained crimes. Another important point is the rapid training of professionals, especially in the field of tool tracks – these are the traces found in the case of burglary thefts. It is also important to provide professional staff. Third point: We need to inform and raise awareness of the population, including the media, in order to be able to assign to the owners of the prey, which is found in advance or inspected. Since it is important to get individual number of electrical appliances, mobile phones et cetera. A fourth point – which is also very important, and since we need to strengthen staff in the internal and judicial areas – is the depleting of the enrichment. This is the area where the perpetrators meet enormously. I would ask all the political groups to work really constructively. It is about not falling into polemics, but rather working constructively on a common solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e81870	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e81891	Mr President. My honourable members of the Austrian Federal Government, especially highly esteemed Mrs Innenminister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is very clear in the whole debate: The coalition parties have an excellent interior minister, and the BZÖ has a problem. This is precisely your problem. [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] We have an excellent interior minister. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is your problem, and it is also the whole kind of debate of such transparency! You are swimming with a view to the forthcoming election to the European Parliament on 7 July. June the skin of it. [[Abg. Grosz: (by hand a small distance to the ground signifies)... so small!]] They tremble formally – you notice this with each of your speeches – to move in, and that's why, of course, you're trying to happen now somehow. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Where is the Stadler?]] There's every means right for you to attack the Minister of the Interior inadvertently. I have to tell you, that's not all right. Take it back! It's wrong what you're doing. You are thus damaging the safety of Austria, I am telling you in all clarity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Grosz, your idea was great. I really want to say that she was Reinhardt-Seminar-suspected; I congratulate her on that. Only: Such ideas usually take place on the other side of the ring, not here. I would also like to say something about your request. I looked at him very carefully. The idea of your application is obviously that we are again issuing the motto: “I am san!”, “Be fine, stay together!”, “Be among us!”, “Close borders!” and you believe that we can fight crime with them. [[Abg. Petzner: Mr Amon, you deliberately say the untruth!]] Maybe you don't really understand the problem. [[Abg. Petzner:... but reintroduction of controls!]] I'm trying to picture it to you: While crime is playing in the European Cup, you want to compete with the Regional League. So we will not be able to fight crime, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In fact, this, of course, concerns the place of the Minister for the Interior, because we have to deal with security challenges, that is not a question. That is why support is needed. Ladies and gentlemen, when I think of the debates of the last few days – and I think I have followed a large part – I would recommend a total disarmament of words, because these radicalisms, which we experience, from any side, of course, start with words, and it is simply incredible. Mr President, I think it is inappropriate what you have said, even if it was a reaction to the President of the Israeli Cultural Community. As a third President, you simply have a different responsibility for me to deal with words. [[Abg. Blast: No defense right, no verbal!]] That's my deep conviction. I think this is wrong, and I would also appeal to you to take back your statements. But I would also like to say very clearly: I consider the statements of the President of the Israeli Cultural Community to be extremely problematic. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] A comparison between Adolf Eichmann and Günther Platter, comparing a Member of this House with Goebbels, and calling a whole group “Kellernazis”, I therefore think that it is so problematic because it is just like a demise of the Third Reich. [[Call to the Greens: He didn't!]] [[Congratulations on the part of representatives of the ÖVP and the FPÖ.]] I would like to warn at this point, especially in the interests of the young people – perhaps even such young people who have not been so intensely concerned with history – of drawing up such comparisons because they do not comply with the reality of the Third Reich in any way! Otherwise, a completely false impression arises, a completely false picture for young people when they hear such comparisons, ladies and gentlemen! That is why I appeal to everyone to be restrained by such comparisons! I call on all of us to be a little disarmed by words, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e82041	There are no further words on the inner chapter. This is why this subject area has been dealt with. [[13:01:43]] Agriculture, forestry, the environment and water management UG 42: Agriculture, forestry and water management UG 43: Environment
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e82075	We are now entering into negotiations on the agricultural and forestry, the environment and the water sector. The first speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e82108	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the situation of Austrian and European agriculture is a worrying one. Today, as a clubman, I have deliberately spoken about this subject area, because last week several hundred dairy farmers demonstrated themselves before the German Chancellor's Office in Berlin, some of them even went into hunger strike; now there are also protests in France. Here in Austria, too, the farmers from the IG-Milch held a protest march from the Heroes Square to the Parliament just a few weeks ago, in order to draw attention to their problems. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] These are big problems. Farmers today find themselves in a situation threatening to exist; they receive some hunger wages – I deliberately say, “Hungary wages”, since the price for a litre of milk has already fallen below 30 cents today! The farmers are right to say: We want fair prices in this area; we want 47 cents per litre so that we can live good, half good again! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This must, please, be of great concern to all of us here in this House, we must become aware of this problem and must not look away from it! I therefore support the IG milk and the fair milk prices that are required, but also the quantity limit for which the IG milk comes. The quantity limitation is the environment and the environment. Nevertheless, the European Union intends to remove this limit on quantities and to allow overproduction quite consciously, so that in the end the milk is produced or poured away for feeding – so that prices can be pushed down again and the farmers can be destroyed. What is that, please, for a irrational policy behind it?- Oh, my God! Will the farmers be deliberately destroyed? Will one deliberately create a situation with which the self-nutrition of our country of Austria is based and broken so that we become dependent on other products – for example, on Polish beef or, I don't know, on the sow from anywhere and from the milk from anywhere?- Oh, my God! No, that can't be our interest! To maintain self-nutrition in the country, to ensure healthy and non-genocidal food, all these areas are important and we have a responsibility here in this House! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today I deliberately go to court with one party or another very critically, because the abolition of the milk quota in Austria is the responsibility of the ÖVP-Farmerbund, and it has for a long time no longer represented the interests of the Austrian peasantry. – I say that quite consciously. [[Abg. Eßl: You're wrong, without him there would be no more farmers in us!]] If we talk about the agricultural budget today – I know that there will be excited calls from one side of this House, no question – then of course we will not be able to discuss the Raiffeisen Group as well. This has already – you simply have to say this critically – created a group of your own in this House. There are many Raiffeisen board members here in this house. One could set up one's own club, and Ferry Maier is the secret clubman of this representation of interest. I say it very consciously: There is a group in which Mr. Konrad has long removed himself from the original idea of a Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen. I don't think that's right and not good. Unfortunately, under Advocate General Konrad, the cooperative idea of God is no longer lived. However, I want to know that exactly this cooperative idea is coming back to life! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eßl.]] Mr. Konrad has built up a media and real estate empire in his network, but the Austrian farmers are not interested in it. I'm going to show you this in concrete terms, so you'll be happy to report and prove the opposite if you can. – But you certainly can’t, because you know: What I'm saying here is right! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Eßl and Mr Hornek.]] How does the Raiffeisen system work? You can see that in Lower Austria. There, the ÖVP Council of State Plank had to make room for a farmer's and raiffeisen men, namely Mr Pernkopf. Mr Plank, in turn, was disposed of in the Raiffeisen Group, so it fell soft, not a question. The background was ÖVP-internal pit fighting in Lower Austria. The ÖVP Councillor Sobotka, who is apparently not willing to sell the hypo Lower Austria to Konrad, is now, as you can see, already actively moving away as the Council of State, while in turn making the media close to the Raiffeisen Group such as “NEWS” and “Kurier” an active mood that this Councillor Sobotka will soon be history as well. [[Abg. Höfinger: Deputy Head of State!]] That's all the method. That is why Plank was dissuaded so that the Raiffeisen-Man Pernkopf in the Lower Austrian state government can now enforce the Raiffeisen-Interesen-Interessen and, subsequently, Sobotka, who is not sprung, should disappear as the Council of State – so that you can implement the concrete interests that you represent as the "Raiffeisen-Fraction" in this House. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You just have to work that out critically once. You can call in so excited! [[Abg. Hoefinger: You're a star-differ!]] There are, of course, many rumours in a row, not a question. You can't hear for nothing that Vice Chancellor Josef Pröll should be successor to Konrad once. [[Call the ÖVP:Sol!]] This rumor won't come from about. Today, in all cases, there are 330 000 cooperative banks, self-help organisations of self-conscious farmers. This is indeed democracy in the immediate field of work and therefore a proper and important development of agricultural self-organisation. But in Vienna, a few top managers started out. I say quite consciously: When I talk about Konrad, I talk specifically about the Raiffeisen group Vienna-Nederösterreich, the Eastern Austrian group, and about no one else. This group is outstretched. A welcome system has been changed so that today, in this area, a mixture of late Communist gigantomania with a price of cooperative socialism and a missionary missionary awareness of a few managers who perverted the cooperative idea! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] He was perverted, I say that quite consciously. Mr Raiffeisen would turn in the grave today if he had to see it. [[Abg. Eßl: That's it!]] The cooperative idea is revitalized! The Raiffeisen sector goes a special way in Eastern Austria, where in the second half of the 20th century the Raiffeisen sector is located. In the 19th century, a huge diversification of goods created by the best-ordered cooperative warehouses was created, accessible to everyone, with clear competition from private businesses. This has never happened in Western Austria. This would not have been the case for small and medium-sized enterprises in the private sector, and that would not be the right way. [[Abg. Höfinger: Bad read, colleague.]] In the Western Länder there are self-confident craftsmen who do not accept this. The Giebel Cross in the Protection of Anonymous The common economy is today a product that acts in the market, but especially in Lower Austria, the warehouses have developed into an all-encompassing supplier, where everything can be purchased from the concrete blender to the suit. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Under the Cover Coordination, powerful organizations were created at the national level, namely the Landesbanken, and at the Austrian level the Raiffeisen Central Organisation. A skillful mixture of the cooperative law of 1873, which was based on the idea of self-help, with the organizational law of the capital companies, created powerful economic bodies. Those responsible also understood how to be very comfortable: A mixture of cooperatives, GmbHs and AGs then eventually developed into the Moloch Raiffeisen, which is present today, in which ownership is anonymized, in a huge number of cooperatives, who, however, have surrendered their right over delegated systems to a special functional apparatus. This is the reality we are talking about; and that is also the criticism we are practicing. It must be possible to highlight this once critically and to discuss it openly and honestly! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] The large number of simple cooperative members – and there are many – of the regional Raiffeisenbanken formed and form the basis for powerful economic groups that accumulate economic power by optimizing the legal standards and are intrusive, distortive and organisational! [[Abg. Eßl: Well read, but nothing said!]] Of course, it is also true that some of the Raiffeisen Group is still in control of itself. There is also a company-owned control, which is carried out in cooperative units. These are very, very critical circumstances. The result of this accumulation of power is difficult to represent concentrations of companies whose activities go far beyond the core business and range from agricultural machinery repairs to numerous media. Raiffeisen is increasingly interested in media, whether this is the share of the “Kurier”, “NEWS”, the “profile” or the daily “ÖSTERREICH”. Of course, by means of loans that are granted, there has also been an influence there away from the core business. Raiffeisen has developed and muzzled into a state in the state – of course without democratic legitimacy for it, but also without defined private property. Raiffeisen has been comfortable and has created an environment in which one believes it is possible to define politics in this country today – for example, who becomes chancellors and who becomes vice chancellors and how politics is to run. You have to work this out very, very critically. The principle of the well-being of the community and the common economy does not prevent it from acting with full force, if necessary, in accordance with the criteria of Manchester liberalism in this sense of business. I say quite consciously: This is a very naughty Raiffeisen self-consciousness, which has also been absorbed in the architectural landscape. We see it every day when we pass through the lands of Lower Austria, where the silos of cereals, as far as their height is concerned, are now surpassing the towers of the parish churches at Weitem, so that the Raiffeisen Group with the Giebelkreuz also stands symbolically over the cross of the church! Billions will be invested in representation buildings! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hoefinger: This is a presumption!]] I understand your excitement: If Heinz-Christian Strache defends the cross, if I guard against the fact that the cross disappears from the school classes in Vienna today, and on the other hand that Nikolaus is to be banned from entering the kindergarten, then greed, word distortion and criticism come. But I say: You too should have the courage to defend the cross in this case and not allow such developments to take place today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with BZÖ, Greens and ÖVP.]] It's a shame Mr Stadler isn't here now. That's really very, very sad. He does not even know the difference between cross and crucifix. After all, he has permanently falsely claimed that I would have held a crucifix somewhere. Of course, the crucifix is only one if the corpus of Christ is also attached on the cross. This is a witness of poverty for the Lord who is always great as an intellectual – or as a pseudo intellectual – and if he screams great, then the tonality and volume of his voice has something to do with intelligence, the higher the decibels in this room are. This is a testimonie to the Lord! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] But back to the subject: I understand that They are excited by the Austrian People's Party on this issue, but it is important that we really deal with this issue. I would also like to be ready for discussion. Mr. Ferry Maier from the Raiffeisen sector also invited me to a discussion. – I would like to accept this invitation. Let's sit together, let's talk openly about it, and let's say it openly: Christian Konrad's Raiffeisen Group has now partially replaced the feudal lords of the Middle Ages. You just have to critically edit that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] Apparently, there is also a need for a new farm exemption to resolve an intransparent power cartel that has arisen there – from Raiffeisen, but also, of course, in connection with the ÖVP Farmers' Association and with the Farm Chamber; this is a very existing unit, which has led it in a wrong direction. That is why we support the representatives of the IG-Milch and the free farmers in the country who do not like these structures! You just have to imagine what the farmers are doing today: An Austrian cereal farmer has an average loss of €3,650 per year. Due to the structure of raiffeisen and the warehouses, where the grain is ultimately referred to – of course! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] You'll be paid, please, only months later. The farmer does not get the money for months; today the farmer has a loss of an average of €3,650 per year! – Well, simply because a grain loss of around €33 million per year was reported in 2008, and because the farmer has to wait for months for his money. [[Abg. Hoefinger: How do you get these numbers?]] Only the loss of interest that the farmer suffers here fits exactly into the faulty system you operate! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] The Raiffeisen Group makes a profit on the back of the farmers instead of going here and saying that with the profits of the Group one should finally favour the cooperative members and distribute the profit towards the cooperative members who support and raise milk prices and provide direct assistance to farmers in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] But that's not what you want. What does the Mr. Konrad do with the sour money generated by the Austrian farmers? I'll tell you: The Raiffeisen Central Bank of Austria has accumulated a banking network from Albania to Ukraine, representations from Mumbai to Tehran, branches from Malta to Beijing to Singapore. In all these countries Raiffeisen has not brought the cooperative thoughts! On the contrary: There the pure neoliberalism and capitalism is lived, there is nothing as far as cooperative thoughts are concerned. No, you act just as capitalism can wish. [[Abg. Eßl places a copy of the magazine “FORMAT” with a picture of the street of parliament and the headline “Der Zündler” well visible on the table.]] Mr Christian Konrad is in the term – I say this quite consciously – to keep this state, to influence and control it. He already has a party, the ÖVP, and the media and propaganda equipment needed to do so he already has! Although this group is economically in the best conditions and the Raiffeisen-Group Vienna-Nederösterreich, the holding group of Konrad, has also achieved an annual profit of € 700 million in this area – it is therefore economically good to stand there! – you go here and you take very fresh €1.75 billion in Austrian state aid without having to resort to the core business before! You make some big profits and you're financially good at it. You should go back to the core business, please! What does the farmer need to take part in the casinos of Austria today?- Oh, my God! For what does the farmer need shares in the “Kurier”, the “profile”, at “NEWS” et cetera?- Oh, my God! This is not in the interests of cooperatives, that is not in the interest of the members! If one were to think seriously, then one should resort to the core business! It should be the responsibility of the State to demand this before giving state loans. It should be a principle that, if a government grants state loans, certain rules should also be defined in advance, but that is not the case in this case! How to hear – I have already indicated it today – the current vice-chanc Josef Pröll is to become successor to Conrad once. The office of vice chancellor is now to be an intermediate station as a “putt of the CV”. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] As a trade traveler, Pröll has already been very active in the Raiffeisen Group in Eastern Europe, where he is toured – and that, as you can hear, in the Raiffeisen jet. Pröll was already very busy on the road. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] I deliberately say: It needs a free farm, it needs a new farmer's liberation. We should discuss these problems openly and honestly. I'm available to sit down and talk about it. In any case, we want to free the Austrian farmers from the grip of this mixed group. That's what we want! This mixed group mixes everything. [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: They mix everything!]] We want free farmers! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we are making a request today to revive the cooperative principle. The profits of a non-profit cooperative, which enjoys antitrust and tax advantages, should again be borne by the members who have cooperatives. These should not even be given a pair of sausages and a silk beer once a year when they experience a general meeting, no, they should be profitably involved, they should get price support again with the profits made by the Group. The cooperative principle should benefit members and farmers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Don't make fun of the peasantry! Look, that's exactly the point: They are always funny when you defend the peasantry and when you stand up for the peasantry. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: The legal speaking time is over!]] Yes, my family is partly a rural family. Don't make fun of the peasantry! Take the farm stand seriously! They have already given rise to it by 30 000 farmers who have been incarcerated in recent years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e82558	Ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time has already been exceeded. The application is not yet available, it has to be submitted again anyway. May I ask you to finish your speech?
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e82574	if the extent of non-member transactions is disproportionately large. I thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e82604	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e82625	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! And sometime there were people who believed that Mr. Strache was dangerous. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Mr. Strache! [[The speaker brings to the seat a red and white-red cow with the label “A fair milk” from the speaker’s desk.]] [[Abg. Strache: Now give away the “fair milk”! Don't you want to support it? A sign that you do not support this important concern!]] We are talking today about agriculture and the environment and about vital issues. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Mr. Strache, it is really amazing that you build your cooperative philosophy on a pair of sausages and a beer. That was what you said about your assessment of a cooperative meeting. I'll invite you to: Once you go to a normal cooperative meeting, ask questions there, go, look at the Annual Report. - You'll be surprised. You will learn more there than in your own party, because in this one you won't tell you what's going on anyway. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We in Austria are very happy that we have set up agriculture the way it is. On the one hand, we have high-performance plants, and on the other hand, we have businesses that can carry on their traditional demands and offer everything we need. They can do this because they are accommodated in a cooperative organization in addition to other significant private business partners. They can find the way to the market in their cooperative organization – big and small alike – and that is what every farmer knows, and that is the advantage we know. Just the exponents of the IG-Milch, which you so cherish and care for, called a year ago the farmers to leave the cooperatives and sell their milk themselves. I have in Lower Austria a farming group that has followed this, and this farmer has cancelled the sale of milk to the private trader. These farmers have a quota, but unfortunately no more customers for their milk, and they hope that sometime – they have founded a cooperative themselves – they will be able to stay in another cooperative with their milk. Do you know why that happened? – Because your IG friends said: We sell the milk where we get most. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not true!]] The cooperatives have said: We sell our milk through products into the market, through good products, which are also worth the money to the consumer over their good price. The result is that while the cooperatives could never pay the highest prices in this short period of time in which the IG-Milch has distributed milk, they can pay better prices today than all those who have moved to the shipping market in Italy. I bring another example: the Lower Austrian dairy NÖM owned by Raiffeisen-Holding NÖ-Vienna. It has its location in Baden near Vienna. There, milk is processed from more than half of the Lower Austrian farmers into products that are exported half. This dairy is able to pay a milk price which is more than half higher than the milk price in Bratislava, 60 kilometres away. Faith Do you really think that the milk in Bratislava is not processed by good establishments? [[Abg. Strache: But the cooperative thought has lived! You have to pay the price!]] – A farm with a milk quota of 12 million litres – this quota has a dairy farmer, my chamber-president's colleague in Slovakia, who supplies there – receives half of the price for the large quantity of the smallest farmer in Lower Austria from Lower Austrian Dairy NÖM. Mr. Strache, cooperatives are working well. This was not a speech on the agricultural budget, but it was a speech about what really matters to us farmers. Mr. Strache, leave this subject, stay with your subjects. The foreigners we don't believe in you, and your cooperative stories aren't at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e82713	The next speaker was Mr Huber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e82734	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Dear viewers on the ranks! The IG-Milk is also supported by the BZÖ and by me a hundred percent, because this time it is really about existence. Farmers should ask themselves if they should not even step into a milk strike, because that there is only a method behind this price decline, one can easily prove. Yesterday, the Tirol milk reduced the purchase price of its milk by 2 cents to 26 cents. The evidence is quite simple: In July 2007, the Tyrolean farmer received 44 cents for the milk. In trade, milk cost 97 cents. Today the farmer gets 26 cents. And what do you think about how much the milk in Tyrol costs in commerce today? - There's a broadcast on this: Today, milk costs as much as in 2007, 97 cents. So, it doesn't even benefit the consumer, it only benefits the dairies. I have to give you the right, that's where Raiffeisen is very much behind it. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] The ÖVP has been very disputed on this question, which has been shown last week. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I have made a request regarding voluntary milk delivery ban, you have rejected it, but Landkreisesrat Landeshauptmann Deputy Steixner yesterday demanded exactly my model – to promote voluntary milk delivery ban. The Tyrolean Agricultural Council, your party colleague, Landeshauptmann Deputy Steixner also said that this is the only way out of this misdeed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: No, I was there!]] – Mr Federal Minister, there it stands. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: I was there!]] We also need reforms after 30 years of ÖVP agricultural policy, because not only the milk price is a problem. It can't be that the Italian farmer – please, farmers, listen to everyone! – paid for 1 litre of diesel 47 cents, and the Austrian farmer 1 €. How do you want to explain this? Is that fair? – That’s under any criticism! Furthermore, our farmer pays 20 percent VAT, while the Italian farmer pays 4 percent. But there is another difference: Throughout the meat sector, the Italian farmer – you can look at the statistics, but I hope you know it from practice – gets 47 percent more than the Austrian producer. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Hornek.]] But what is the reason for that? – The reason is that there is free trade and not those producer communities of Raiffeisen-Genossenschaften. There, I think you finally have to take steps. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Today you can prove whether you want to change something or not. The next is the milk quota and the salutation; the salutation is immediately abolished as I have demanded. [[Abg. Grillisch: This is stupid!]] - It's not stupid! It simply doesn't work for people who have sold their quota to deliver right away just because they're farmers' alliances. I can't do that! Stop it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The next thing, Mr Grillitsch, is that all the products produced in Austria, where the animals were fed with genetically contaminated soya, are finally to be marked. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The other request is – Mr Federal Minister, the money is available in the budget! – that we finally put the farm premiums in front of us. Farmers no longer have liquidity. I do not want to repeat, but you know how it is, for example, in Tyrol, where the President of the Chamber of Agriculture says: We're just more debt consultants. – Yes, if we don’t act now, when do we want to act then? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you think everything is not like that in Tyrol, then I can tell you yesterday the Council of Agriculture and the Head of State said that it is a shock for him. He is now taking up all my demands, including the demand I have been making for a long time that the public hospitals must buy milk from the local milk producers. You've rejected all of this. Now it demands the ÖVP. – How disputed are you then?- Oh, my God! And then former Commissioner Franz Fischler goes here and advises the farmers that they should all look for a side job. That is the right answer to the job situation in the current economic crisis! That's incredible! I think you should find peace once again in the ÖVP and then take up our solutions, because these are really solutions, you can't dispute. You understand her, so please, take her up too! It cannot be that our farmers are so disadvantaged. You're talking about a Europe. Your colleague, you're talking about milk prices in Bratislava. There the worker costs 250 €. [[Call the ÖVP: Is not true!]] In Tyrol, the worker costs €2,000. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What do you want to compare?- Oh, my God! Earth apples with pears? – Please compare the regions of North Tyrol and South Tyrol! Nordtirol is ruled by you – and look at South Tyrol! In South Tyrol they get the double for milk, the diesel costs half and VAT they pay 4 percent. And with us? – Such regions can be compared, but don't compare Vienna to Bratislava!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e82899	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e82929	Ladies and gentlemen! About a month ago, a meeting of European parliamentarians on climate policy took place. In three of the four presentations that have been shown there, exactly this graphic that I have now shown has appeared from a McKinsey study, in which the question is asked, which actually costs avoiding greenhouse gases. This is a pretty interesting picture: What you see on the left, the beams that go down, these are measures that bring us money that generate money under the line and make life cheaper. This includes the insulation of buildings, fuel efficiency in commercial motor vehicles, measures in the area of cooling, water heating, fuel efficiency in general, sugar cane agro-fuels and measures to reduce losses in standby. All the beams that go up on the right are measures that cost money – above all industrial carbon capture and storage, biodiesel, gasification of coal, retrofitting of coal plants on CCS, new coal power plants with CCS and co-incineration of biomass. These are all things that cost us something. I think that a budgetaryly intelligent climate policy will, of course, first address the measures on the left and implement those measures that bring about something that can be expected quickly, which, in a national context, will also bring money that brings value added and jobs. Although we cannot implement everything – with so many subsidies, the local peasantry will not succeed in growing sugar cane and thus producing efficient and sustainable agrofuels – there are many other measures that we can do and can do. The budget also contains a great deal of attention to the measures on the left – to those measures that bring us something that is expected to bring us financially. There are certain things budgeted and there are fishing points and first steps in the right direction. This graph also makes it very clear that a whole group of stakeholders is in demand, must cooperate, and in the sense, Mr Minister, it is also very important to have a good, truly broad, accordd federal climate protection law. It was one year ago such a review. That was more of a pipe-creper at the time and not a really good law. It didn't really include the stakeholders. I very much hope that the last year has been used by the experts in your home, for example, to hold discussions with the countries with a view to developing a long-term perspective for a federal climate protection law, which includes everything necessary – all areas, all countries, all other ministries – because the last draft was clearly insufficient. In this context, Mr Berlakovich, I have two specific questions. On the one hand: When are we about to expect such a completely renewed federal climate protection law? When will this go into review? And on the other hand, Even if I assume that the law will certainly be a good law, which is also efficient and will help us to get our greenhouse gas emissions really under control in the direction of 2020 and 2050, there is still a lot of people who are entitled to Fear that we may not fully achieve our commitments in the Kyoto period by 2012 and that it will be necessary to take appropriate compensatory measures of a particular nature. I would be interested, since the five-year forecast in the budget covers the entire area of the current Kyoto period, as is the case in financial terms. Let me focus on a very different subject, namely the question of waste exports – also in Austria, a subject on which there is a lot of money. The United Nations expects us to produce around 50 million tons of electrical scrap worldwide each year. That's the fastest growing trash stream. Although it is prohibited to export electrical scrap in all OECD countries – which must be used at home in their own country or at least within the OECD – it is in fact so that 70 percent of this scrap is shipped more or less illegally to Asia, to Africa, and only one third is really disposed of here. These 70 percent that are exported are then declared as second-hand goods, although it is actually quite clear that 90 percent of this second-hand war is no longer functional. What is for us electronic wealth waste is deadly manual work for people elsewhere in disposal, trying to get some more copper wires out of any equipment, in areas where slums and garbage are now growing together. I really urge you to ensure that there are better controls in this context. There is certainly a need for budgetary precautions, but even if the world's waste management is in crisis, we cannot afford to export our problems elsewhere. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e82989	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. Fixed speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e83010	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! I am glad that Mrs Bayr has finally spoken on the subject of the environment. This is not only about agriculture, but also about the environment, and I think it is significant for the environment policy that not even the environmental speaker who spoke before had something to say about the environment. The first thing I noticed about this government: There is no environment ministry of its own, and also in the budget speech, the vice-president and finance minister has made it clear that there will be no focus on the environment in the budget either. This is now clearly reflected in this budget. There are positive approaches that allow us to expect positive environmental effects and impacts on our climate protection, that is the climate fund, that is environmental promotion, but for these two instruments, more projects have already been submitted and requested than we will have available in the next few years. These are instruments that are not only positive for the environment, but that can, above all, promote projects here in Austria and create jobs. Take these instruments Now you're going to get rid of the thermal renovation that makes sense. My colleague will talk about thermal renovation later. Thermal rehabilitation is also something that needs to be done in addition to what is now being done in the area of environmental protection and energy. Unfortunately, this budget will not allow for any fundamental structural changes, but we would urgently need them. Today, it was read in the “Kurier” that despite the economic crisis, the oil price reached its high year. Mr Minister, I do not know how you believe the oil price will develop after the economic crisis?- Oh, my God! It is quite clear that we need to take other ways that we need to rely on public transport, on electric mobility, on renewable, independent energy sources. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So we need fundamental changes and not just individual measures. The resources of this budget will certainly make it possible for some great project and it will also be possible to take some photo with the project promoters, but necessary changes will certainly not be possible. On the contrary: The focus in this budget is on funds with which we are freed from our Kyoto commitments and with regard to CO2 emissions. These are funds for which Austrian taxpayers and tax payers will benefit, for initiatives that are set up abroad. Climate initiatives abroad are also necessary, especially because of our historical responsibility, because of our high energy consumption, which we have had in recent years, but for our own climate change targets, for our own economy, funds are necessary here in Austria in order to finally create jobs. In addition, environmental policy in Austria not only focuses on free purchase, but also Austrian tax resources are provided to allow industry free allowances for a free CO2 emission, and that free CO2 emissions are financed from an environmental budget, I find actually a scandal. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] In addition, it is also a contradiction to free buy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The media noted that Minister Mitterlehner calls for softer environmental conditions for industry. That's going to be discussed. In the Nordic countries, on the other hand, it is already recognised – and this has been noted there – that economic success is also possible in the long term only through sustainable development, and sustainable development now includes the environment and can only work in accordance with the environment. Minister for Agriculture, you are also responsible for the environment, and I call on you to also strengthen the environment and the eco-sector in Austria, which is a future industry and can also provide jobs for many young people. Work for an eco electricity law, even if it does not directly fall within your area of responsibility! That's what we need at last. The government is now stopping the eco-sector from finally bringing back more movement and creating jobs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Also work for a better anti-atomic policy in the European Union! When I look at what is planned in different countries now – in Slovakia, in the Czech Republic, in Russia, in France, in the UK, in many countries in the European Union – it is quite clear that we need a strong anti-atomic policy in Austria and also in the European Union, and Austria simply has to take a pioneering role and work together with other countries. I also call on you to participate in projects, environmental impact assessment procedures. You have a reduced budget, and I do not know how you will do it, but I hope and I expect the Austrian Ministry to be very clear about the procedures for various nuclear power plants. Again – I have mentioned it more often –: There are a lot of people in Austria, in NGOs, in citizen initiatives that work for more environment, for quality of life in the different regions. That the Minister of Finance, even though he was once the Minister of the Environment, does not make himself strong for the donation of NGOs or for the improvement of citizens' initiatives, okay, but I would expect you to be more committed to facilitating even these people's most voluntary work. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am certainly not a black painter and, in principle, a very optimistic person, but I do not think that we can handle the major challenges facing us in the environmental field with this budget. We are also falling back on the environment. Mr Bayr has already referred to it, there is a need for action in the Climate Change Act, in the revision of the Air Emissions Protection Act, we are in the back, the NOx Action Programme and, and – there is a whole list – and I have the impression that Austrian environmental policy is only taking place if we are invited by the EU to do so. – And that is not enough for a former environmental model country! Unfortunately, it is not surprising, because since 2000, we have lost our own Ministry of the Environment, and I therefore believe that Austria and Austrian environmental policy or what we all imagine under Austrian environmental policy urgently needs an own and independent Ministry of the Environment with energy competence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To conclude: Mr Graf, I personally believe that you are inappropriate and unbearable for the office of the Third President of the Austrian National Council, and I demand that So you're going to step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e83089	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e83110	Mr President. High house! I regret that some speakers have actually made very little reference to the agricultural and environmental budget in their opinions. It is a shame because, like many other budgets, these budgets have been negotiated under very difficult conditions, under the difficult conditions of the economic crisis, with the challenges for the labour market and the economic packages plus a tax reform. And yet I have managed to negotiate a budget for the Ministry of Life, which is as high as ever. This applies both to agriculture and the environment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is clear that agricultural and environmental initiatives are to be extended and continued, but on the other hand, because costs and requirements are increasing, of course, in the area of management we are saving massively. I start with myself in the field of representation to the sections of my Ministry of Life. A warm thanks to the officials for going along this path in order to cover our initiatives at all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the one hand, I am concerned that we can allow farmers to work, that we can provide them with planning security, on the other hand, but on the other hand, we want to be able to continue on our way to achieving the climate targets, and in the end also to create the transition to renewable, alternative energy. Mrs Brunner, if you say that this budget has no focus on environmental policy, that is not true. – This year’s budget has a plus of € 290 million and next year’s € 256 million, i.e. the environmental budget has an increase of 50 percent. So where do you see here that nothing is done for the environment? That's not the point alone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It is also about efficiency or non-efficiency!]] By the way, it is a matter of simply continuing our environmental policy path consistently – whether it fits you or not. It is true that the whole debate is covered by climate change. Climate change is obvious, it used to be controversial, and now it is out of dispute. It will concern our regions, but it will also, quite massively, affect other regions, for example, if we think of the African region. If there is no more rainfall there, if people cannot feed, then one understands that there are hiking movements, because people simply flee to areas where they can live. Climate change is therefore a global concern, and we are doing everything we can to protect climate change not only here in Europe. After all, we are the only region in the world that has a programme to combat the effects of climate change. The major climate and energy package was decided last year. We – for example, the Swedish Environment Minister, who was with me recently and who has the Presidency in the next half-year, and I – are currently trying to get the Americans to boot into Copenhagen in the context of a global climate agreement by the end of the year and then, in the wake of China, India and the emerging countries, to reach a global climate agreement. This is very important and that is why we are trying to do our utmost. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What are you doing in Austria?]] Of course, renewable energy plays a central role. You know, I'm for an energy-autarchy Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But what are you doing for it?]] I think this is a fascinating vision that we produce heat, electricity and fuel in our own country. I already know that we will need fossil energy further, that we will need the gas that oil, but we will definitely advance research in order to be even more successful and become more independent from abroad. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The Minister for Economic Affairs and I, we are working on the overall energy strategy for Austria, where it is a matter of having a discussion where all those who can supply input – the NGOs you quoted, the stakeholders, the social partners, the energy companies, the biomass organisations – are involved. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: When's that coming? When's the Ecopower Act coming? Where is it?]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It hasn't even been discussed yet?- Oh, my God!]] We will have a plan towards the end of the year to implement renewable energy sources in Austria, i.e. hydropower, wind energy, solar energy and biomass. I think that's a right way. This brings jobs in their own country and also value added. It is clear that we want a climate protection law. We are working on the revision of the old draft and on the involvement of all stakeholders and all those involved. Because it will not be possible to do so without the involvement of the institutions in the Federal Government and in the countries, this will be put at a broad level. However, our efforts in the field of the environment are also something different, for example, on the promotion of environmental technology. Green jobs in economically difficult times are the answer to economic crises. There are a number of companies in Austria – I am not talking about agriculture – in the economic sector, which successfully achieve exports, increase in trend, and find and hire new workers. Therefore, I force environmental technology and also drive to other countries in order to make orders for Austrian companies there, together with the company representatives, so that Green jobs can be created abroad and bring value to us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Create jobs in Austria!]] We have restructured the climate and energy funds here in the Hohe Haus – now two ministries are responsible, in addition to BMVIT, the Ministry of Life – and we have recently presented the programme for this year together with Mrs. Colleague Bures. I quote only in my area that it is my intention to continue several successful initiatives and, for example, to set up a new photovoltaic support. I think this makes sense because we are not yet competitive there. We also need to improve in the field of research in order to become more competitive. In this context, I say quite clearly: Yes, we need an eco electricity law to be able to expand renewable energy in Austria. It's out of the question. The thermal renovation that we have started together with the Minister for Economic Affairs is an extremely successful action. We presented it in mid-April. It is estimated at the end of next year. We currently have 6 000 requests from households and 280 to 300 requests from businesses. It will probably be exhausted in the next few months. The crucial point here is to now set impulses for the medium-sized economy and also to operate climate protection – extremely successful! It runs very well and is very well accepted by people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is still a lot to be said about the environment: Ensuring water resources, protecting from natural hazards, ensuring orderly waste water disposal with the communities in this good cooperation, as was the case in the past, and many other things up to the conservation of national parks and a development in the field of water management and environmental protection, where there is more resources, because we have a lot of investment there. On agriculture: The agricultural budget is also higher. As far as the agricultural budget is concerned, I have to say that we are securing farmers' money. You have debated a lot about the IG-Milk. This is only a partial aspect of the problem, because it is not about the IG milk, it is about the dairy farmers in Austria, about all dairy farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You see only the segment of a group that is also trying to achieve something, but there is a much larger and wider action, namely all dairy farmers in Austria. Therefore, it is right for farmers to take action on the world milk day and point to the high-quality Austrian milk in its width, not only to a certain action of a milk group. However, in the milk sector we have, Austria has moved Europe. We have fought since the beginning, since I am in this function, to secure the dairy site of Austria. The fact is that milk production has increased throughout Europe as a result of the good price situation. Then the Asian market broke out, the Eastern European market and, above all, the food industry says, because milk prices are too high, we replace milk in the recipes with vegetable oil. In European ice cream production there is vegetable oil... [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Don't talk about it! That's absurd!]] Mr Pirklhuber, look, your screaming does not make the situation any better either! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We no longer have an ice cream industry in Austria. This operates throughout Europe and replaces the recipe with vegetable fat due to the high milk price. Another thing that has now appeared is what we call art cheese. On a pizza, where everyone assumes that cheese is on it, is an imitation on it, a mixture not of cheese, but of vegetable fats. That's what it's all about. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Change the causes! That's a wrong policy! That's the problem!]] I have noted this in the last Council of Agriculture Ministers that I demand a European labelling system, because where cheese is on it, cheese should also be inside, both on the pizza and in the lasagne. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's just supposed to be product-truth. If the consumer wants an imitation, he should be able to have it, but he should definitely be informed about the products in it. And we have moved the European Union. It intervenes in the market to clear up to buy out intervention and export refunds in order to stabilise the milk market. I will not pass on the increase in the milk quota due this year. I keep them in the national reserve in order not to induce additional production. Then, when the market has stabilized, the quota can be released. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I remember – also in support of Josef Pröll, my predecessor in this office: In the previous year, there was the Health Check, and Austria was against the decision to increase the quota. The vast majority of the countries of the European Union – this is still the case today – are for the abolition of this system, and we are fighting to achieve stabilisation. In the last Council of Agriculture Ministers on Sunday – and I am proud of that – the French-German-Austrian initiative was only mentioned in Brussels. It is these three states that join forces in the fight and in action to improve the situation for our dairy farmers. Above all, the agricultural budget – with which I complete the subject – has this purpose, and it will fulfill it: that farmers will receive their benefits. And that's why: Financing – and I succeeded in doing so – of the mining programme, the environmental programme, the investment programmes, so that we can continue a sustainable ecological path of our agriculture. It will also expand and continue to support the education and training programme in our agricultural schools, because we see education as a key factor so that farmers can continue to exist in the future. My aim is to collect all the funds available to us in Brussels – Austria is the best way out of all EU countries – and to make it easier for our farmers to manage more successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e83340	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e83361	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! We have a debate on agriculture and the environment. It is about the budget, but it has not yet been mentioned that our farmers ensure that all the people who live in Austria can be supplied with the best, most tasty, healthy, safest food all year round, so that they can work with their hands to create a landscape that we know to use as a recreation room that is absolutely necessary for tourism, so that they also have to be thanked. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: These are also achievements they provide!]] Of course, the benefits – as you are right, Mr Pirklhuber – which the consumer rightly demands, but in order to be able to provide them, there is also a need for a stable political framework. It is therefore also necessary to be able to obtain the money from Brussels, through a good, secure agricultural budget, which is available to farmers. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There's nothing against that!]] Of course, farmers also have to cope with the effects of the volatility markets. It is the agricultural raw materials that are subject to certain fluctuations. These are challenges – thanks to: volatility – which they naturally have to cope with, that is the market economy environment they have to face. [[Abg. Singer: Volatil!]] And, of course, it is also necessary for planning security to be given through an agricultural budget. I was standing in front of savings markets last weekend with the farmers – and do it this weekend too – we made a milk action, a milk offensive: We have contacted consumers and informed them about the milk and milk quality of the Austrian farmers. I tell you, it is actually a topic that where cheese is on it, cheese should also be inside, that if our consumers expect cheese products, they should also really be served with cheese products. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Singer:... said last week!]] This is not so easy to reject, Mr Pirklhuber, and to say: Don't focus on this now, that's not the issue today. - That's the matter! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No, I didn't say, don't focus this!]] – We have to deal with this because hundreds of tons of vegetable fats and other ingredients are processed into cheese-like products without passing on corresponding information to consumers. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It's not the cause of the crisis, Mrs. Colleague, that's it!]] It is important for us that we can rely on an agricultural budget. After all, we also have a lot of young people in our agriculture in Austria: 12 percent of farmers are under 35 years of age, which is a good sign, there is potential. They are interested in being able to run agriculture to the best possible level – in the EU average it is only 6.7 percent. 39 percent of farms are run by women. Agriculture is also increasingly more female, as more than 50 percent of the people employed in agriculture are women. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Not anymore!]] These work with all their strength for and in agriculture. And our agriculture is becoming increasingly ecological, and we need to continue working on it. Therefore, I welcome all the measures that will be best budgeted and implemented in the future in rural development: not only our environmental programmes, which are important and correct – which are also essential in the biological field – but not only our compensatory allowances for disadvantaged areas, but all the other measures that are important for the investment and regional offensive for rural areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] I congratulate the Federal Minister on this ambitious agricultural budget, and I am convinced that he will also work to ensure that this two-pillar model of the common agricultural policy has a future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e83505	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. Fixed speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e83541	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Appreciate listeners! Today, a few honourable Members have brought Taferln – and I have only one question that I have already asked in the Green Report: If everything you hear here from the ÖVP side was so successful and so good, am I wondering how to get there? [[The speaker holds a table entitled “Since the EU-BITRITT 50 000 farmers; “Thank you!” Farmers’ Federation!!!” both in the direction of the MPs and in the direction of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich and then present them to the speaker's desk.]] Since 1995, 50,000 farmers have given up their farms. That's 4,000... – Cry when you're out here, but be quiet now! [[Abg. Eßl:... Politik!]] 50,000 farmers have given up their farms since accession to the EU – that is twelve farmers a day! And then you're talking out here about a successful agricultural policy, saying it's all palette, all right?- Oh, my God! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eßl.]] This board should actually encourage you to go in and think a little bit. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eßl.]] Today you speak out, saying: Yes, that's the EU, you can't do anything there! – Mr Minister, you say that you are committed to doing so in the EU. You have told the farmers – not you, because you were not ministers at the time, but the officials of the Farmers' Federation, including Mr Grillitsch, have been there – when the farmers come to the EU, everything will be cheaper, then we have great export opportunities, then we have a level playing field. [[Abg. Grill:... Internationalization!]] - We don't have all of this today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Especially the milk discussion shows all your helplessness and the excuse for the EU. [[Abg. Grill:... Renationalisation?]] By deciding that you have abandoned the milk quota in Europe, that you have not put in a veto, you have massively damaged the domestic dairy industry and destroyed the livelihood of tens of thousands of farmers! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] Minister! You say we never talk about the budget. We have received from you this budget draft: Budget 2009/2010. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] I heard it, because I'm milk farmers myself, from you: We receive €50 million as a milk-to-conjunction package. – Do you know what this budget says? There it says: Market regulatory measures: Milk cow premium 2009: 0 €; 2010: 12 million €. 50 million € have been promised in broadcasts and in the farmer's newspapers, and now 12 million € are planned for 2010. And there is one to believe you? – And about planning security, please, nice, not at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: These are just some...!]] [[Call:... co-financed]] – And even if it’s co-financed, where are the 50 million €? Then talk about the investment offensive in this budget! . We have now received a letter stating that the percentages of investment support have been reduced. I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, to comment on whether it is true that the investment subsidies, which partly accounted for 35 and 30 percent, have now been reduced to 20 percent in May, and what you intend to do as Minister. It's not planning security, and it's asking her! We demand them as farmers, and you can't give them to us? Unfortunately, you're always just talking about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Then I still have something interesting, because you always call the IG-Milk as a grouping. Now I will read to you an article from the “top agrar. ” This is what your own officials, Mr. Minister, farmers' federal officials from Styria – Mr. Grillitsch, you come from Styria – think: “We cattle keepers do not feel represented”. – Do you know what the farmers' federalists say there? “You have to listen more and more often that the Farmers’ Federation is only there for the delivery of birthday wishes.” – That, please, say your own officials! [[Ironic cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] You really have to go inside and think about whether this is really good. Ernst Maierhofer, you know him for sure, this is the local farmer from Mürzzuschlag, says: [[Abg. Grillitsch: I know that!]] “The Farmers’ Federation must hear and take seriously the concerns and concerns of its members. Only in this way can he fight seriously for our concerns!” They themselves criticize you, please, and you go here and say: It's all palette, it's all the best! – That’s not the case! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] But it's still going on! You too, Mr Grillitsch, there is an article entitled ‘A Ring to Last’ from the ‘dlz agrarmagazin’. The Minister is even passing you as a farmer's Federal Minister by saying that everything he is negotiating with SPÖ in the agricultural sector will be negotiated directly with Members of the Gäßner, because you simply are not. In the financial committee you forgot to ask a question to the Minister for Agriculture, the signature under the IG milk farmers' demands, although you have promised to do so, you have now taken your own party, i.e. the ÖVP, out of the list of speakers in the short term, and the Minister is now no longer negotiating with you, but he is negotiating directly with Mr Grasser. [[Abg. Grill: That's not true!]] And I wish Mr Grasser a lot of courage and a lot of strength to enforce the interests of the farmers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls:Gassner]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Don't ever say grass to me again!]] We will also – and I say that again, although it is not popular with you inside here – again and openly recommend distribution justice in the promotions, if the average farmer receives only more than €10,000 in subsidies and you put millions of funding into foundations and estates: The company “Smoker” gets €9 million, the company “Power Horse”, which is not a horse farm, gets €400 000 promotion, a company Hofer, who always criticizes her because it reduces the prices for milk, has collected €220 000 in subsidies, and that from the agricultural budget! That's a huge piggy, and that's why we're resisting it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have to get away from the promotion of land and quantity, we have to go to work, because that protects the local peasantry! But there is also a lot to be criticised at the AMA, because 40 million euros from the agricultural budget flow into the controls alone. No European country has as massive controls as it is practiced here in Austria. Here the farmers are persecuted by the AMA right into the bedrooms! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals demand that the Farmers' Federation, the ÖVP, and also you, Mr Minister, not only go into words and explain how “paletti” is everything. You should stand behind the farmers because to lose 50,000 farmers in 15 years is not an award for you. – Work decently for local agriculture!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e83802	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. Set speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e83824	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Federal Minister! High house! Given the picture drawn by the EU in connection with agriculture and rural areas a few days before the EU election, I feel obliged to correct this picture a little – especially the one that is repeatedly drawn by Blue and Orange. I quote from the Ministry's report on this budget – a literal quote: ‘EU funds’ are ‘essential cornerstone of agricultural financing’ in Austria. [[Abg. Singer:... even, we don't need the EU to do that!]] 3 billion € in agricultural budgets and budgets for rural areas include almost half, i.e. 1.35 billion euros, EU funds, ladies and gentlemen. – The role of the EU in the context of agriculture and rural areas in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, how the funds are distributed, there are, of course, differences between the two government partners, differences of opinion, here there are many different things: The Social Democrats are committed to a fair distribution of these EU funds and agricultural support, especially for the smaller farmers and not only for a few large ones who cut off the bulk of these funding, for example for dairy farmers, for the whole rural population, for ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Hornek: The municipality of Vienna, for example!]] €557 million is intended for rural areas, which is a tremendous boost! For us, the rural area is, of course, the peasantry, but also the rest of the population, these are small businesses, that is tourism – they are all supposed to benefit from this funding. This is an approach which the Social Democrats represent on this budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I bring a little example: For example, if the famous wine terraces in the Wachau are renovated with EU funds, this is important not only for the wine-growers, for the wine-growers, but also for tourism, for culture, for the cultural landscape and for the whole population. Therefore, my final sentence: Let us not put our own light under the umbrella, and let us not prevent a positive presentation of the European Union in the context of agriculture and rural areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e83888	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e83910	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, I can devote myself to the oil crisis, namely the Styrian nuclear oil crisis because of cheap pumpkin seeds from China. This problem has long been known and evident in Styria, in my home country, in the home country of pumpkin kernel oil. Second-class Asian goods flood the market there, and the Styrian pumpkin core farmers remain on their excellent quality, sitting on their pumpkin cores. The main responsibility for this is the oil mill owners, because many whitter the big business here and buy cheap cores of lower quality from China, Hungary or Romania. The purchase price is up to 50 percent below the domestic high-quality cores. Unfortunately, we do not yet have a law prescribing the designation of origin of the main ingredients for food. . Here we would need to take a lot of action, this problem should be dealt with quickly, and our support is safe here too. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this context, I should like to address Austrian and Styrian quality: For example, if we bought 30 percent more agricultural products from Austria, according to Kepler-Uni in Linz, gross domestic product would increase by €3.2 billion a year and create 30,000 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, this would be a good approach, and, Mr Federal Minister, it would be a really good approach for the Austrian and Styrian farmers to take supportive and fruitful measures here, because looking at the budget does not exactly look pink for the future of the farmers. [[OBJECTIVES]] The fact that the Austrian and Styrian farmers are more incarcerated has already mentioned Mr Jannach, who has been 50 000 farmers less since Austria's accession to the EU. – So, this number is already remarkable, and you have to repeat it again and again. The milk price falls into the cellar, the wood price has not recovered since the storms “Paul” and “Emma”, the livestock price has also fallen over the last few years. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But this is the economic crisis!]] [[Abg. Eßl:... as good as long ago!]] – No, it’s not as good as it has been for a long time! I myself come from agriculture and I know what is being paid for livestock at the moment, Mr President of the ÖVP. The price-performance ratio here, as has been said, has not been true for a long time. Everyone who has worked or worked in agriculture knows what strenuous activity agricultural work is and how little one gets for it. Many come over the rounds just once, and at the end of the day they don't really have much in the bag. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The farm stand is up-to-date, is financially improved and supported – but what farmers really do can never be paid in money anyway. As far as EU funding that expires in 2013 is concerned, there is no further approach, and I would ask you, Minister, to invite us from the opposition to negotiations and discussions on this matter. In conclusion: I do not see a rosy future for the Austrian and for the Styrian farmers with the budget for agriculture, especially with the allocation of these, and the so-called EU agricultural policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e83988	Next, Mr Hornek. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84009	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Environmental technology is the most growing sector in Austria. Annual growth of both sales and exports is 12 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Sales have almost quadrupled from 1993 to 2007 to €6 billion, of which 65 percent go to export. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We have all this... to thank you!]] Environmental engineering companies are small and medium-sized enterprises that have found lucrative niches on the world market, resulting in 20,000 employees for Austria. Taking into account employees in environmental services and renewable energy, there are about 180 000 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve climate change objectives, an increase in the share of renewable energy sources to 34 percent is essential. Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government has triggered a real boom in the field of thermal rehabilitation with the support of the environment in the country: Up to 200 applications are made daily. This is an important boost for the construction industry and therefore contributes heavily to job security. In the field of renewable energy and thermal building renovation, up to 70 000 new jobs are created in Austria in the short and medium term. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: It could be more!]] Unfortunately, Austria has become a electricity import country, so I support all renewable electricity production variants in Austria, especially the hydropower. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In total, more than €13 billion will be invested in the area of the expansion of hydropower and the expansion of renewable energy sources and electricity distribution networks. [[Abg. May. Gässner: (in the direction of the Abg. Grosz, who is standing at the government bank and speaking to State Secretary Dr. Lopatka)... on the government bank? You don't belong there!]] In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary that so many bureaucratic obstacles are reduced. – We all have to work together on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84093	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Fixed speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84139	Mr Federal Minister, of course it is not just a question of seeing the negative! They have put forward a positive argument and said: There is enough money for the agricultural sector! The agricultural budget itself cannot therefore be described as a problem from the level. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Then you agree!]] I would like to say one thing to Mr Strache, who has not been present,: Schuster, stay with your performance! [[Call the ÖVP: I'll give you that right!]] In recognition of the fact that he throws himself on the rails for the farmers' interests, one has to insist on the following: He accuses the Raiffeisen Group of the instrumentalization of farmers for the interests of the Group, the officials, but when he looks into the mirror, he must be quite open and honest that he does nothing else: He abuses the fears of the people for his political purposes. [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this question of over-participation in the cooperative sector would be really worth being discussed, and it would be good and necessary, because dialogue capacity leaves more than to be desired, as would the transparency of this sector. This would not only be desirable for farmers, but also for many consumers. Finally, it is about trust – and trust can only arise where openness and transparency prevail; but this is not the case, unfortunately, as we see in the bank package. It would be very nice if we knew how this €1.75 billion really looked for the Raiffeisen banking sector if the Minister of Finance put all the facts on the table to see how the interest rate development will be et cetera. This is a point, Mr Federal Minister, which is going off in the whole agricultural policy debate. So I'm going to put this milk pack, this liter of milk, because it's about: Dialogue with farmers who make a state marketing price because they are committed to fair product prices because they are trying to make public work for their interests. [[The speaker turns to the government bank and places himself there before Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich a tetrapack with the label ‘A fair milk’.]] These are the farmers who at the same time deliver AMA marketing contributions, with whom employees – and that is all right – distribute milk packages here in front of the meeting room in the house. These are the farmers who make this free of charge, volunteer. And to recognize and appreciate that would be the minimum that could be required of a fair, dialogue-oriented agricultural policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Talk to these farmers, finally invite them to a round table and don't further excite them! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] Now to the agricultural budget. You said it was too little to talk about. Point one: not understandable to me: 75 percent reduction in quality improvement measures. 75 percent, this is quite specific – I have mentioned it here in the house – Bio Austria, a organic farming organisation, a flagship, a hanging sign; reduced from € 840 000 to € 200 000. They say: Yes, we will make the funds available anyway, they get equal! – But what did you answer me in writing? In concrete terms, you said: The objective of the Centre is to take structural action and set up specific areas in such a way as to enable support under the Rural Development Programme. Mr Federal Minister, yes, a statement of intent, but not a clear statement. I can also say: In 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, we will do anything so that something is somehow eligible. – That’s not how it can be done! I would remind you in this context that the budgetary negotiations on the agricultural chapter were a shame to this House. We, the opposition, had just 5 minutes; no more and no less. The second 5 minutes were deleted because you, Mr. Federal Minister, simply meant to be stoned and clear: I don't have a limit on speech here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] – This is not fairness for the agricultural policy discourse. I would expect more precision, clarity and competence from you in the future. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Point two: Operating premiums. Mr Jannach has rightly referred to the rights of funding. One word on this: 14 percent of the farms receive more than 50 percent of the funding from the farm premiums. [[Abg. Hornek: The municipality of Vienna, for example!]] – They say, the municipality of Vienna. Mr President, if it is so, why do we not change it? Why are there no measures that transform the money in such a way that those who really need it also get it? This is indeed the core criticism of the Greens: that you are unable to respond to the crisis – and the possibility you would have within the agricultural budget – with measures aimed at ensuring serious and future-oriented jobs. This was done in the context of the concept through changes in the field of farm premiums, namely a gradual transfer to uniform regional area premiums. But it is also incredible what you have answered in writing in this context. You said: Yes, I have already set up a working group that will work out the proposals for later – after 2013 – now. – In four years’ time, please, what the working group, which has now been set up, is going to happen! Why Make Don't you take measures for 2010, work this year – I understand – and then in the 2010 budget the first changes are taking place, the first steps towards a sustainable agricultural policy? That would have been to be expected. I would like to mention another point in the greatest chapter on rural development: the agricultural environment programme; one of the signposts. Of course, we spend much more money than other countries in European comparison for these measures – we are all proud of them – but we also need to look at the target accuracy. Especially in the crisis, Mr Minister, you would have had the opportunity to spend €88 million more on the second pillar, namely for these directly effective premiums for environmentally sound management. The numbers speak for themselves; I have them here. In 2006, the farmers received €636 million, €522 million in 2008, a minimum of €114 million within two years. And you could have put in place a measure that would have benefited businesses directly. This would have been possible through a shift from investment to these environmentally sound measures. It's a shame you don't put impulses here. Another thing about the milk package itself: Mr Federal Minister, recognize the problem! Of course, we are also opposed to analogue cheeses, against artificial cheeses; we will now, together with the government groups, decide on a proposal here. We believe that it is a necessary and correct step that artificial cheese is marked and that there is no deception of consumers, but that is not the puddle of the core and not the cause of the problem of the dairy sector. The reason is that the European Commission is not prepared to make a dairy policy that is in the interests of farmers but that it has a milk policy that is in the interests of the large, export-oriented dairy industries in Europe. This has to be said, and this should be true for farmers and there is an shoulder closure, an shoulder closure with all those who are willing to work for genuine quality-oriented agricultural milk production. I expect you to have a 10 cent higher milk price – this is one of the demands that should be on the agenda today – a 10 cent higher milk price would mean an economic package of € 270 million for the rural regions. This would be directly beneficial, since farmers simply need this money to cover their current costs, especially in the dairy sector, more than urgently. If we were to decide together at national level to ensure that this package takes place from the market, it would be a modern, forward-looking and even, if we look at the budgets and consider the whole of the financial policy, very useful strategy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] I know there are discussions on the milk market reform, and here we are still waiting – we have been waiting for a long time – for an initiative proposal, Mr Grillitsch; this proposal is still not there, we have not yet received it. I don't know why you don't choose the open path. Why do we not treat this in the Committee on Agriculture? Let us invite the necessary experts and try to make a common solution, a common decision! [[Abg. Grill: Is treated in the Committee on Agriculture!]] But if you continue this way, the farmers will soon present the invoice to you. Mr. Federal Minister, one thing is really visible to me: Unfortunately, you have not recognized the signs of time, you are writing the budget for 2009/2010. You say that's a success. They do not set up any real new initiatives to end farmers' and farmers' deaths. But above all, you are pursuing a staff policy which I think is more than curious, and it is actually unworthy of your home. In this context, I would remind you that you have recently appointed a head of the Federal Mining Institute. The only scientific work of this lady, who is known to me – I will continue to research and do not want to make personal condemnation – is the only scientific publication I know from her, a diploma thesis entitled “City – Free Space: Human / Example Vienna”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] It is a landscape and city planner who is to become the head of a research institution dealing with mountain farmers' questions, with the alpine mountain region in Austria. An affront! – You can get in from behind as much as you want, Minister. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] Hundreds of experts and dozens of well-known Austrian scientists – from Eva Kreisky to Emmerich Tálos to many others – have clearly solidified and said: [[Call the FPÖ: Was that a black or not?]] That's not an adequate procedure! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The ex-rector of the University of Soil Culture, known as an ÖVP politician, Dr. Manfried Welan, has also spoken against this kind of order policy. This should be pointed out again and clearly.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84319	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84340	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The expenditure of the agricultural budget increased by 1.3 percent in 2009 and 2010; in addition, the co-financing of the federal states. The budget is acceptable in itself. Although the number of people active in agriculture has been falling for years, the agricultural budget remains unchanged. The cuts in the agricultural market in Austria, which is €3 million, as well as in the AGES, are very welcome. Incomprehensible is also the reduction in institutions for the promotion of organic farming of around € 640 000. It is absolutely necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to distribute the agricultural funds more fairly among the farms in the future. In the Green Report, this gap can be read. In addition, the rural development programme should provide funding to all rural people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you whether you have already withdrawn the advertisement from the prosecutor against the retired managing director of the Institute for Mining Questions, Mr Krammer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84387	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84408	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr State Secretary! I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to help farmers, because banks get money, lots of money, and farmers get less and less for more work. The farmers are the cultural promoters of our landscape. What would our landscape look like, our mountain farmers wouldn't work there with a lot of effort and effort? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The danger is that more and more courts will give up – this is also confirmed by the Green Report. A comparison of 2006 and 2007 shows that more than 1,600 miners have given up. It can't go on like this. The dairy farmers, ladies and gentlemen, get a hunger wage, as Klubobmann Strache said today, for their product milk. It has to be helped immediately, or it's too late! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] More and more farms are giving up. It is so difficult to find a successor to the court. It should also be borne in mind that by-farmers have a huge double burden on the profession and farm, and in particular the farmers. Who can do this in the future, which is to lead a court if nothing looks out? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yesterday or yesterday, the newspaper read that thousands of miners are affected by the ruin – and that is exactly how it is, ladies and gentlemen. An emergency aid must be introduced for our dairy farmers, and compensation payments for the whole farm must be adjusted so that it is worthwhile to be farmers again!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84502	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84570	The next speaker is Mr Hörl. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84591	Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr State Secretary! Mr. Federal Minister, in your Federal proposal, of course, the position for tourism, €8.5 million, with which you, for example, support 540 restaurants in investments for renewable energies, holidays at the farm and “Enjoy region Austria”. There are regions where every seventh guest sleeps on a farm. On average, the farms generate €31,000 in by- incomes, and the almost 127 million tourist attractions in our country naturally generate enormous demand on the food market. Environmental protection is very important in your department. The budgets for this even in times like this almost € 1 billion, also in the coming year still amount to 800 million. Mr Berlakovich, these are remarkable efforts. Let us be proud that in our beautiful home country we have an international highest standard in environmental and nature conservation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The national parks of this country, for example, are worth €28 million, as much as the entire marketing of our country in the tourist markets. I would also like to thank you, Mr Federal Minister, for setting up the so-called Task Force, a discussion platform in which we will develop the urgently needed development of the national parks into tourist products, which are also marketable. The following applies: Permanent nature conservation can only work with the local population and its understanding of the national parks. It is not enough if they “take away” only ecologists and farmers, but leave the regional economy outside. Much has been achieved in environmental protection and nature conservation, for example, a quarter of the country of Tyrol is protected by nature. In my district of Schwaz, the largest tourist district after the federal capital, it is even 35 percent. streams, lakes have drinking water quality, the garbage separation works excellent. [[Abg. May. Gässner: This is the same in the Mühlviertel!]] But we have also built an environmental-bureaucratic monster – and that is the other side – and we must make changes in this respect, Mr Federal Minister. Procedures take far too long, armies of Boku graduates and lawyers have created a rich field of activity here. This means that projects are delayed and often prevented. We should, however, focus our attention at this time primarily on jobs, on jobs and once again on jobs. There are families and the prosperity of our people behind them, and they are worth being treated first-class. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Singer: Don't write so much, then you can talk slower, you better understand!]] An area where we can pursue environmental protection and job protection is the energy issue for the future. But here always, when it comes to the expansion of hydropower, an ideological debate arises, lip confessions are made, but unfortunately we do not continue. We need a clear, cross-party commitment to the rapid expansion of our hydropower here. A simultaneous commitment to energy saving is of course also welcome and also belongs to it. We have to confess that energy production in our own country from renewable resources warrants quite minor intervention into nature. In fact, far greater, for example by means of nuclear or coal-fired power plants, which then happened abroad, we can avoid this. So: This year and next year, the E-Economie has a total of €2.3 billion in investment. Five or six power plants are in an EIA process – if we are strict, we are putting pressure together here to allow these power plants to be approved. This also creates jobs, we do something for the economy and in the transferred sense also for environmental protection, but above all much for the future of our beautiful home country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84660	The next speaker is Mr Linder. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84681	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! On the agricultural budget, we have received a beautiful brochure from the Minister, and as mayor, I am very happy to read on page 6 that, in addition to other programmes, the “Investment Plan” is supplemented by the “Regional offensive” for the whole of rural areas, for small and medium-sized enterprises and to strengthen the communities. That sounds pretty good to us, especially if you know what problems we have to face rural communities – we have to fight with emigration, we have to see that we get our kindergartens full, we have to see that we can balance a budget. And if the minister writes that he wants to start his own program and help us, it sounds pretty good – until the time you read it on. On page 21 it says: Total amounts for conservation measures in the wild streams: in financial statements 2008: € 67 million, in the 2009 estimate: € 52 million, and in the estimate for 2010: € 50 million. That means, that's 17 million euros or almost a third less; and that, although you're actually saying, you want to help, you want to do more. One will say: Well, it has already been done so much in the wild streams, they have already been extended! – That’s not true! The fact is that the federal government simply lowers its participation, much less pays for it than before. In my community, five years ago, we developed a stream to which the federal government contributed 67 percent. Now we are in the process of building up 200 meters of bach, with only 50 percent of the federal government involved. In the first construction phase, we paid 6 percent as a municipal share, now we pay 26 percent, i.e. by 20 percent more. With a volume of 1,9 million €, this means 380 000 € per year for my community for this project. Given that we have a total of € 290 000 to € 300 000 per year for investments, this means that the total cost of this project amounts to € 480 000 is almost two total annual budgets. To this end, Mr Minister, I think you should stand and make the necessary resources available. As I and my community are now doing, so are many communities. In the centres, in the so-called bacon communities, the projects and streams are expanded. Now the expensive projects are getting far away in remote areas and, above all, in economically weak areas. It can't be like we're coming to the handcushion. Dear mayors from the economically well-established communities, I may ask you for one thing: Support us and help us! If you are not willing, Mr Minister, to make these funds available to rural areas and to continue to subsidise and promote measures to increase security, please do not boast of maintaining and supporting rural areas!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84728	The next speaker was Mr Köfer. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84751	Mr President. Federal Minister! In my constituency Upper Carinthia, most of the farmers are small and mining farmers, who have to secure their livelihood with the dairy industry, and in this difficult area, this naturally requires the farmers to have the highest physical performance every day. Many are only more auxiliary farmers, as they can no longer live from agriculture. Of course, there are also exceptions to us, not only in upper Carinthia – farmers who write cynically on their business card “farmers” who have hundreds of hectares of land and land, have forests, hunts of their own, fishing waters, and for that there are still bold EU funding. But I’m actually less interested in these “noble farmers. ” Back to the Upper Carinthian dairy farmers, who stand for the fate of Austrian dairy farmers. In farmers' circles, too, the common table raises the question of why these dairy farmers are, in fact, constantly being affected by their standmates, the beekeepers. The answer is usually also: because they don't have a strong lobby. No one understands why the price decline in sugar has been generously achieved by direct payments to beet farmers in millions of years. The Austrian dairy farmers are currently only able to dream of such promotions. Therefore, I think it fair that some of the €25 million available in the budget this year would be allocated to local dairy farmers for the renovation and restructuring of beet factories. There must be an end to the poor situation of dairy farmers vis-à-vis beet farmers. No one understands that the unhealthy sugar production is constantly being subsidized in millions, while this is not the case in the case of healthy milk. I therefore call for a fair distribution of agricultural support. It can't be that 10 percent of farmers cash 90 percent of the subsidies. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you to ensure that the decentralized locations of the existing dairies continue to be guaranteed. This ensures good jobs in the regions and a fair, fair milk price for our farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84794	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84816	Mr. Minister of Agriculture! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I can tell you that there are already thousands of people who regard your presidency as superfluous. [[The speaker put on the speaker's desk with the title "www.ruecktritt-martin-graf.at".]] Please take the consequences! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: Go, go!]] Mr Minister, my previous speakers have already clearly taken up a party for rural areas, including the concerns of mountain farmers; I would like to underline this. That is why, Minister, I must stress once again that your personnel policy at the Bundesanstalt für Miningernfragen is really not just cockbleing, but rather incompetent and heaven-screaming. Imagine – I give you, Mr Federal Minister, that you would like to copy – that you have commissioned a lady with the new leadership, who in her diploma thesis “City – Free space: Human/Example Vienna’ as the only reference to its future field of activity in this important organisation of the Bundesanstalt für Miningernfragen on page 97 has the steep meadow on the Danube Canal. Such a lady, who deals with questions of meadows in the Vienna area in her diploma thesis, can then work as a “qualified director” – under quotation marks – at the mining institutions, where real research is carried out, where important insights are also gained for rural areas. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: I don't understand: Why are you going to this woman?]] I can only give you an example. As a urbanist, I am very likely to participate in this mining research, for example because of the study on rural postal services. Read this work! This work really well researched shows how much the reduction in the number of post offices in the rural area has gone ahead and that the replacement rate of the post offices by post office, Landbriefer et cetera is partly only 50 percent. In Upper Austria, for example, there is almost no post office at all in the city of Steyregg. The study of the miners has already predicted this by evaluating the previous closure waves. – That on your occupation and personnel policy. Now on financial policy, one aspect from a customer perspective: Mr Minister, you are, after all, 40 percent also responsible for the AGES. This is an institution that makes food controls, i.e. the quality of food that stands for what our farmers are producing, which is intended to ensure product safety for consumers. I did already have years ago, I think it was seven years ago, when you were still in the deepest Burgenland – I appreciate the Burgenland, especially the depth of the Burgendland –, the financial abuses of the AGES, the disintegration. [[Call the SPÖ:Hello!]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: This attitude speaks of “world openness ”!]] – I would also like to become a Burgenlander if it is necessary. – The distribution of food control was carried out at the time in order to achieve savings effects. Now food control is actually being starved. There, I quote, we have a mistake of €18 to €25 million, so that quality control is driven forward. Please, answer this once, answer to the Austrian consumers that we need to thinn out control because the AGES has too few financial resources! This does not support your clients from the production sector, where especially the Austrian farmers depend that their quality is also honoured. Mr Grillitsch, you would have to sit in the same boat as I and the same line. That's a quality issue, and we need money. I now draw the bow from the consumer's point of view, speak mining quality, speak research quality, speak food quality, still over to the genuine eco sector. Mr Minister, my basic problem is that you have important funds from the Climate Fund, where it is a matter of driving forward innovative projects, which are concerned with expanding the state of the art in ecology as an economic stand, with funding, so that you use these funds to make use of thermal building renovations, and that you do not provide new resources and, above all, no additional resources for them. I refer, above all, to the Secretary of State, who is now out of place or has disappeared in the short term. It would be a task of a Minister of Finance, including a Secretary of State for Finance, to finally ensure that we have at least 300 million funding, because there is a leverage effect of factor 6. If I take over 300 million, we can generate a total of 6 to 1.8 billion, thus almost € 2 billion in private investment. This would be a boost, not only for climate protection, but above all for employment in the construction sector. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, remember that these jobs are first of all safer, second, they are more and third, they are mainly for the domestic sector, for small and medium-sized enterprises. In this sector, an eco-cluster, an eco-logisation of the economy in Upper Austria has been successfully driven forward. That's what my plea is: Take more funds here so that at last something goes ahead, in the sense of competitiveness, in the sense of heating costs savings, in other words, a social area in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84906	I should like to ask Mr Jannach to get rid of the table, since it has been announced for a long time. [[Abg. Dr. Moser takes the table from the speaker's desk.]] – Thank you very much. The next item is the report by Mr Radler. Speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e84944	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs Moser, I would have already brought you the Taferl, because the Taferls are already being prepared outside the Burgenlands for your resignation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: I'm calling myself Burgenland!]] I am pleased that today there has been a commitment by all parties to the Austrian dairy industry, to our dairy farmers and to a fair milk price. I believe that this is an important cross-party measure – a measure for the rural area and for the rural population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is all the more unfortunate that – and this also affects me as a consumer – substitutes are sold in the food sector in neighbouring Germany under the term “artificial cheese” or “analog cheese” et cetera, which would at least correspond to a value of one million tonnes of milk, which is thus driven out of the market. We should guard against that. I believe that all the federal states, all the regions of our country and, of course, the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs have made efforts in recent years to raise the importance of the municipalities and agricultural products from the regions and thus also to make the products marketable. Therefore, allow me to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85023	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is related to the subject-matter of the negotiations and is therefore also subject to negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85097	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofer. Fixed speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85118	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! They are in stock on the government bank, but also here on the banks of Tyrol's whole milk, and there's a pickerl on it, which is produced free of genetic engineering. And this shows the dilemma of the labelling of food in Austria. We have heard that pumpkin seeds are not from Styria, but from China. [[Abg. Grosz: Not everyone!]] – Of course not everyone. We know that people want a better label. I would suggest that, in future, one should identify those who do not produce genetic engineering without genetic engineering, so that those who produce clean ones do not incur any additional costs. Ladies and gentlemen, now on energy, on the subject of environment: We must bear in mind that the economic crisis will be God's thanks to God again. But then the oil price will rise again, the gas price will climb up, and these price increases will be much, much more elaborate than many of us expect. I believe that it is therefore necessary for policy to put in place measures here too so that we can switch to domestic and renewable resources more quickly than originally planned. I therefore propose and will make a request on this issue today that the rate of VAT on energy from renewable sources – from domestic sources, unfortunately, I cannot say, because this is contrary to EU law – be set at 10 percent. Why? – You may know, hacks, wood, hacks are already taxed at 10 percent. However, I would also like energy from domestic hydropower to be taxed by 10 per cent, whereas energy coming from abroad to us is still taxed as it has been, by 20 per cent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This would have a very positive effect on our trade balance, it would create jobs in the country. We know that it is mainly domestic companies that produce this renewable energy, hydropower and wind power. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this relieves the economy, it relieves households, it serves the environment and will also relieve our finances in the state in the medium term, because every Austrian today spends more than €1,000 a year on energy coming from abroad. If you add the hidden “grey energy” you buy with products you import, it is significantly more than €2,000. That is why it is a measure that would be really positive. Thank you, Federal Minister, the Federal Government has decided on a €100 million thermal rehabilitation offensive. You have once predicted that this will trigger about €700 million of investment, 650 million, and this could create about 7,000 jobs. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: 650!]] I would also like to ask you to really examine if this action is now under way, whether we are achieving this objective. If we actually achieve this goal, then we should extend this action, because a unemployed person costs us about €15 000 a year. Calculate what 7 000 unemployed costs at € 15 000! In times when unemployment is high, it makes sense to continue this action in order to reduce unemployment and thus help the economy. It is mainly local small and medium-sized enterprises that are active in the context of this thermal rehabilitation offensive, and we will continue to save ourselves the purchase of emission certificates in the future when we put in place this measure. Last point: mobility. I believe that at some point we need to get through to take a really courageous step in public transport, a courageous step that will also cost a lot of money. But I believe that we need fast transport and rail links in Austria and that, in the long run, we need to invest in these fast rail connections. If you travel to Switzerland today and travel there by train, you see, there has already been very, very much done. That's a model for me. I believe that many people would be willing to take the train, even if the quality and speed were right. In conclusion: I am convinced that in future you will be on the road with electric vehicles more than before. Some of us, Minister of State, Mrs Brunner, were already on the road with an electric car. I think it'll be more in the future. We must therefore be very careful in energy production that we can provide more electricity from domestic sources than before, because it makes no sense to use this clean form of mobility and then perhaps to import more nuclear power than before. We don't want to. We want to use the domestic renewable sources. I would therefore ask you to consider this request very kindly.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85203	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is related to the subject matter of the negotiations and therefore to the negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85261	The next speaker was Mrs Binder-Maier. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85283	Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the chapter on agriculture, the subject of forest is inevitably to be considered, because the forest population in Austria has important functions. On the one hand, it is a safeguard factor, on the other hand it offers habitat, relaxation room and economic function, with free access to local forests as a recreation area very, very important and a special concern for me. The Austrian Federal Forests play an important role in the management of the forests. I was only recently able to get an impression in Krems about how great the use and quality of the work of the Austrian Federal Forest is and how carefully the resources are handled. The Austrian Federal Forests manage 10 percent of the local state area and 15 percent of the Austrian forests. They are responsible for almost 70 percent of all larger lakes and for 2,000 miles of river waters. They operate very carefully, they also have profits. Therefore, the following is necessary: I ask you, Minister of State, to consider the fact that the Austrian Federal Forests do pay dividends to the state, but at the same time also need funds for their own stability and for their own management and for their own preservation! It may not be necessary to take up loans or even to reduce staff through the compulsory distribution of dividends. The Austrian Federal Forests do an excellent job. I would like to ask you very, very cordially, to continue to guarantee this basis to the Austrian Federal Forests.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85326	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Lugar. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85347	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! High house! Mr Minister, it is a shame that the hydropower in Austria has fallen from a share of 70 percent a few years ago to 58 percent. Only 58 percent of the energy is produced with hydropower in Austria, and the difference is largely offset by atomic current. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That is why it is really a shame, Mr Minister, if you and the government stand here and say: We want clean electricity! We don't want a nuclear current, we're against nuclear energy! – Lip confessions always come. Just, I'm asking you: How does that fit in? On the one hand, you prevent the expansion of hydropower and thus weaken the backbone of our energy supply, and on the other hand you import nuclear power instead of doing homework here in your own country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The question arises, Mr Minister: Why do we import so much nuclear power? Is it perhaps because in Austria we no longer have a potential for additional hydropower? Or is there a lack of money to build additional power plants? On the contrary: If you look at the current figures, you know that there are still 18 terawatt hours of potential in the hydropower. And these 18 terawatt hours could save us all energy imports in the field of electricity. As far as the money is concerned, too: According to the association of electricity companies, €9 billion is available for all Austrian electricity companies to tackle hydropower projects. 9 billion € are available, which only need to be invested! So there are plenty of ways to invest in hydropower. Unfortunately, it just doesn't happen. Look at this! If we consistently implement this, we could save 3 million tonnes of CO2. I wonder, What's wrong? . I mean, we're best allowed to talk about the association of electricity companies. It says that building a large runway or dam power plant in Austria is economically unimplementable due to the current conditions and the massive resistance of local politicians, NGOs, citizens' initiatives and the lengthy authorisation procedures. Mr Minister, if we are interested in becoming independent of nuclear power, if we also have an interest in putting our energy supply on a stable footing, and if we want the electricity industry to invest €9 billion and thus create jobs, and if we also want to achieve the CO2 targets, I ask, Mr Minister: What are you waiting for? Make the way free for hydropower in the interests of Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85399	Now comes Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85420	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! One of the priorities in this Federal Government's environmental and climate policy – we have heard it before! – is dedicated to thermal rehabilitation. This can also be found with a clear precipitation in the double budget available to us. Yesterday we learned that more than 6 000 private and more than 270 entrepreneurs have already sought support and have already been paid the first grants from the 100 million € pot set up under the II economic package. This signal from the Minister for the Environment towards active climate protection was accepted as excellent. Congratulations on this! The fact that these investments create jobs in these areas and stimulate the economy is probably clear to all of us. But not only in the thermal renovation, also in the The water sector, the largest in the environmental budget, is heavily invested. The benefits of the environmentally friendly energy generation from hydropower are obvious. In addition to the positive effects that the construction of new hydroelectric power plants remains the value added in the country, we become more independent, can be offered cheap electricity prices for end-users. So in my native Tyrol, together with Vorarlberg, there is the lowest energy price. Tyrol is also very good for other important renewable energy sectors, namely biomass and solar technology. We are therefore going a reasonable way towards greater independence from oil and gas. But let me also say a few words about emissions trading in this context! In view of the economic crisis, the EU wants to avoid new burdens on industry through bureaucracy and additional costs. A statement was adopted yesterday at the EU Competition Council in Brussels. I express my thanks to our Federal Minister Reinhold Mitterlehner for his clear words, according to which high targets at the World Climate Conference in Copenhagen in December and the related costs could lead to the risk of industrial sites. In Austria, possible CO2 relocations to third countries, and thus the consequent loss of thousands of jobs, particularly the energy-intensive industry, as well as the chemical, paper, cement, solids and bricks sectors, are affected. Not least for the economy, I call for the faster and easier implementation of EIA procedures, as the often laborious and time-consuming procedures are too long to delay or even hinder important projects. There needs to be a corresponding law novel. But the simplest and cheapest economic promotion that the state can provide is the one that reduces bureaucracy, simplifies procedures and thus accelerates them. That's where we're all demanded! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85477	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I shall inform you that Mr Strutz has been apologised to the family for a surprising illness since 14 o'clock. Next speaker: Mr Zanger. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85508	Madam President. Federal Minister! I have to hold something that I notice during the whole debate on the budget: The frequency of the thanks of the government parties to their ministers is unsurpassed! That's great! If for each: Thank you, Minister, for the budget! If we had laid eggs, we could now feed all over Austria with egg food. That's incredible – really! –, insurmountable! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Nevertheless, to the government groups: You see, you can be broken too! You've become it this week. Last week, we liberals have submitted an application for the labelling of analogue cheese, of artificial cheese. I think you haven't been able to do much with it last week, but now you've failed! I'm glad because it's in the sense the Austrian farmers and the Austrian consumers that they will be the master of this art product. We will do this with this multi-party proposal today and decide – a free initiative! So much about the issue that the opposition should make constructive contributions. That's what happened. If you used to stick to the ideas of the opposition more often, you would, as I think, be very well advised in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, I think and I am sure that this was not the last request that we have decided together today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85559	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85580	Madam President. Minister! Dear friends from Amstetten, welcome to Parliament! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are now discussing the agricultural budget. I'm glad that this was raised. We have 35 million € more available this year, next year there will be 28 million € more. This is to be assessed positively. I also welcome the fact that the funds from Brussels are being collected, as Mrs Hellerer has said today. However, the distribution is negative. We simply need more distribution justice in agriculture. I have already said that in committee. We need to get away from land support, we need to get more labour force promotion! And above all, we also need to see that the small-structured farms in Austria are preserved so that we can maintain the so important landscape care too! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am also very sorry that there will be savings in the field of organic farming and mining promotion. And I am also sorry that rural development is particularly often meant by farmers. The rural area, ladies and gentlemen, consists of more than just farmers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A word about the situation of dairy farmers, which is really very tense: I just don't think it's enough to meet farmers with 1 cent more per litre of milk if they get only more than 26 cents per litre of milk. This is really an unsustainable state! We must seek a common European solution to this problem of quantities so that farmers can really live on it. We'd like to be willing to cooperate. There are also enough proposals on the part of the SPÖ, as we are really concerned with the existence of farmers. On the other hand, however, I also call for solidarity with the thousands of workers who are currently affected by short-time work who are concerned about their jobs, because they are all employees in that country. It is about securing existence for these many, many people. It is mainly about security for these people.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85656	Mr Tadler is now speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85677	Madam President. Minister! High house! In the economic crisis, it seems, everything is possible. Waste tourism is flourishing, so one of the headlines can be heard today, because for about half a year, we can see that this crisis does not stop even before the waste management, Minister! One reason for this is certainly the decline in production volumes and associated decreases in waste. Another, but all the more important, aspect is the transfer of very, very large quantities of waste abroad. Is this shipment controlled abroad? – In a response to a question, the Minister did not provide any specific information on this matter. The fact that there is a greater need for action is also apparent due to the very poor information on criminal proceedings from 2008. In 2008, nine – I repeat: nine! – Procedures concluded legally, resulting in fines of €8,660. No procedures have yet been concluded for 2009. What's wrong with that? How is this abuse to be done out of the world, Minister? Another problem concerns our water. Mr Minister, with us in Salzburg this is a very, very important issue. The country is fighting with all its resources to ensure the supply of basic and drinking water for the future. But for me the question again, Mr. Minister: What to Remember Are you opposed to the completely obsolete drinking water network in the large agglomerations? What happens to the bottom wastewater pipes, which endangers all of our drinking water? According to your information, Mr Minister, the proportion of uncontrollable waste water can only be determined in a few years, as no evaluations are currently available. How could that be? Should it not be all our duty to protect our supreme good, our valuable drinking water, Mr. Minister? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My colleague Gerhard Huber asked me to say something more to the dairy farmers. I saw in the couloirs a beautiful prospectus of the AMA today. On it you can see our beautiful Salzburg Cathedral, the Pongauer Cathedral. The figure reads: “with 5 farmers”, “with 2 farmers”, “with 1 farmers”. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] – Yes, this is the Pongauer Cathedral, Minister! I know about myself in my home country. – And to what was issued by the AMA, I think only one thing – colleague Großruck is not here today, so I have to get rid of a saying as a farmerbua –: The farmer creates with the last strength for the cooperative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85733	Next speaker: Mr Mayer, with a request for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85754	Madam President. Minister! High house! For years, efforts have been made by the Czech Republic to find a suitable location for the disposal of high-level radioactive waste. ==References== In May 2009, it was notified that detailed investigations were being carried out at two close-to-border sites in Austria for the suitability of such a camp. The Austrian population is very critical of the nuclear power – we know – and is not ready to take any risks and risks of a border-nearly storage site for radioactive waste. In the current case, however, it is a site search and therefore not yet a formal procedure. This is why international and European legislation is not yet in force. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, however, I would like to thank our Federal Minister Niki Berlakovich for his commitment to the negotiations of his budget. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] – What is there to laugh at here?- Oh, my God! – We currently have the highest level according to the best agricultural budget ever in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85824	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85898	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85919	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Spectators on the ranks! I don’t make a trip to “Maria Thanksgiving” for security, nor to Maria Taferl. I hope you can understand my words otherwise. On the subject: Some time ago, we in this Parliament dealt with the issue of the ban on the cultivation of Gen-Soya. I remember shortly after that, people saw ads: Austria or – in that case it was Upper Austria because it was in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” – “Oberösterreich ist gegentechnikfreis”. By the way, to remember: German Environment Minister Sigmar Gabriel said in the Financial Times that he had voted in this way – in our sense – because otherwise he would have expected more pressure from the FPÖ. – Well, in that case it was not so bad that it was the third strongest party in the EU. To the Gen-Soja again: Austria or Upper Austria is free of gene soya and genetic engineering. It is still in my memory, however, that we have 550 000 or 600 000 tonnes of gene soya as a feed! What about it? Do they belong to that too? Or is the listing a conscious error? What are you doing? I don't know. Maybe that wasn't meant either. Only: These 550 000 tonnes of gene soya are only a little cheaper than the normal, genetic-free soya, namely in the final effect of the farmer by € 5 the ton, at a price of – earlier it would have been said: 250 dollars the ton – 350 to 400 dollars the ton, so disappearingly low, and I would have expected something to be planned in the agricultural budget to help the farmers. – Unfortunately, I found nothing. Well, we are now no longer in the field of protectionism by the EU, so we could help differently. But what happens if the poor farmer drives to the warehouse in search of genetic engineering-free soya? – He is asked: Do you want a gene-free or a normal one? In other words, it is already assumed that free of genetic engineering is actually the abnormal, the normal is the genetic engineering fraud; let's say it as it is. Or – top-notch justification at all –: We don't even have that! I would have expected this organization to support our farmers, and for that it could also be provided for in the budget. But unfortunately, nothing is planned for that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that the genetically modified soya has even more part of the shell, that it is actually in total economic if it is not genetically modified, is just a side effect. But what's going on? – The agricultural industry is flourishing, it is supported, even through financial means, by small farmers, they suffer badly. In total, the follow-up operations are bad. Tirol milk, for example, has to get a new manager from Müller milk. This is the description of the agricultural situation, which, in my opinion, ridicules every description, but not from the point of view of the farmer, but simply and decisively from the point of view of the consumer. I'd ask you to do more here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e85983	Now comes Mr Mag. Gäßner with desired 5 minutes to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86005	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The budget, the amount of sums was already x-fold praised, thanks for that. – I would like to thank the Austrian taxpayers for allowing us such a budget! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] First of all, on the data, in concrete terms: Protection against natural hazards. – Federal Minister, for Wildbach and avalanche cultivation, the budget will unfortunately be reduced in the next few years. I hear from the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation sector that it is intended to reduce staff and give more and more orders to the outside. I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to stop this, because in the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation – I know that from very personal experience – we have excellent professionals, and I would not guess to do so! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] In the case of protective water, it is the same, even as the budget figures are falling. If I think about how many projects are in progress, I have to say that we should be careful that there is enough money for these protection measures. Water quality has already been the subject today. Unfortunately, in our well-protection area, we have it again and again, almost unchanged, to do with nitrates and also pesticides. I wonder, if I see what amounts are spent in this area, whether there is any need for more efficiency in the review. Now to the dairy farmers and to what has moved us most today. – Mr Federal Minister, you said earlier in your statement that in Europe – I do not know in which body – it is already a keyword, the solution of the French, Austrian and Germans is recognised. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: In the Council of Agriculture Ministers!]] – In the Council of Agriculture Ministers, thank you. If that is the case, I can't imagine that we can't control the milk problem by means of a quantity control. It must be possible. We don't need to sit down and negotiate in countless hours: If that's possible, we'll do it, because the dairy farmers blow out of the last hole! We really need to work together to find solutions here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber and jury.]] The same applies to the dairy cow premium or as always called. A drop on the hot stone, but I think this drop will be good for the farmer too. There is quite the willingness to address this, but please: Don't throw over again – a drop over it is difficult, however – not just to distribute it with the pot, but also to pay attention to less-favoured areas, to mountain areas and to prefer them in such measures! The AGES funding is still pending. Mr. Federal Minister, in cooperation with Minister Stöger, you have achieved an excellent result in the field of genetic engineering freedom, and I hear that especially from the AGES, very important, high-quality scientific studies were excellent for you to argue. I therefore ask that the AGAS be financially provided in such a way as to continue to exist. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I don't want to talk about the swams and the bobble. I don't want to talk anymore today, just: It is not an infringement of property if the normal Austrian goes for a walk in the forest and takes home two kilos of Schwammerln! [[Abg. Eßl: It's regulated anyway!]] - No, that's not regulated! [[As a result of the accident at BZÖ and the SPÖ representatives.]] You can never be sure if not any real estate owner then suddenly says: Now you pay for it! [[Abg. Eßl: No!]] One last: Mr. Federal Minister, I have heard that you have caused the ad to be withdrawn from the prosecutor's office against Mr. Josef Krammer, or that this withdrawal has already taken place. If that is the case, I would like to thank you for not doing so, then I ask you to make this withdrawal immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86103	It is now coming, Mr Magistrate. Widmann with desired 2 minutes to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86124	Madam President. Mr. Minister! 2 minutes are very short, therefore: The most important thing to be able to make Austria largely energy self-sufficient is three points: First: avoid further energy consumption, Second: enforce energy efficiency; and Thirdly, more emphasis is placed on renewable energies. The annual consumption figures for 2007 are 1 100 000 terajoule, an increase of 15 percent in the last five years. This would mean that we would consume 32 percent more energy by 2020 – and that is exactly the wrong way! It is also the wrong way if we believe that we are seeing the salvation in the government that the "Nabucco" pipeline wants to expand massively, if we support it and do it too little for renewable energies, especially since the overall energy concept, which has been repeatedly addressed, does not even exist in fundamentals. I have repeatedly asked to have a potential study carried out: Where are the quantities we could still use? With biomass, wind, hydropower, solar thermal, photovoltaics, geothermal potential, we would still have enormous potentials, but because of wrong funding policy or Kirchturm policy – each federal state has its own construction order, in which certain energy characteristics are recorded – we cannot implement it. For thermal renovation I would like to say: 100 million, Minister, are a Mickymaus programme! You yourself said that 6,000 houses are being renovated. Well, there would be about 1 million houses for renovation! Here one could invest loose sums of 80 to 100 billion, but in the first approach one would have to increase to 1 billion in order to be able to really scored here, with all the advantages that have already been addressed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Last but not least: Don't forget to include education policy in the Master Plan for Renewable Energy! If we create competence centres for renewable energies, we create new training images! One more thing: Nuclear policy is important. – In this respect, one sleeps in Austria. Invigorate them, take an active stand against Temelín, and finally take an active stand against Euratom! One absolutely last point: In an interview today Wolfgang Anzengruber, Chief of Association, said: “Power prices probably reached their low in April. Within a year we will probably see top prices again!” Ladies and gentlemen, this would mean that the electricity price will rise by far more than 50 percent. Minister for Economic Affairs, Minister for the Environment, do everything you can to ensure that the prices of electricity in Austria are maintained for the people, for the economy! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86192	Next speaker: Mr Eßl, Member of Parliament, with a request for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86213	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can also welcome the farmers at the gallery quite cordially, at the head of our Salzburg farmer. Servus, Elisabeth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed the case that farmers are in a difficult situation, but we have answers to it. [[Abg. Singer: Where?]] On the criticism of structural change, Mr Jannach: You know very well that it looks different in other European countries than in Austria. [[Abg. Jannach says: “Since accession to the EU, 50 000 farmers have less! ‘Thank you!’ Farmer’s Federation.]] This structure, which we were able to maintain through our consistent policy, is only more in Slovenia, in South Tyrol, in Switzerland and in parts of Bavaria, otherwise there is no longer this structure – and a consistent policy of the Farmers' Federation has helped to preserve it. I therefore come to an issue which Mr Gaßner has also mentioned, namely ownership. – This is very important to us, and this is also for farmers’ motivation. I can't imagine that we can't start to give up now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This budget in all cases ensures that the direct payments made to farmers are fully secured. It also includes an increase of 35 million. These direct payments are an important part of agricultural income. I'm still saying one in your direction Always this big/small discussion, always just to be jealous, that's not the right way. [[towards FPÖ]] These direct payments are not social benefits, which I would like to express once and for all. Farmers are not beneficiaries of social assistance. They get the money for services they do. This is a fee for benefits. If a person does not use sprays and fertilizers, then at the first acre, at the twelfth and also at the 748. acres, and so he has less income and more expenditure. He'll get the money for that, and he'll get it in the future. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I should also like to refer to the debate on quantity control, on the quota. Mr Jannach is consistently claimed that Austria had not entered a veto. – Mr Jannach, I told you last week: The quota shall expire automatically unless a majority of the Member States decides to extend the quota. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jannach.]] If it had not been for the peasantry if the peasantry had not fought, we would no longer have a quota, it would have run out in 2006. Thanks to our policy, it is still present. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jannach: Amen!]] We want to suspend the quota increase for this year, we want to increase the proportional balance – that is an important concern – and we do not want to prevent the introduction of the dairy cow premium in addition to the suckler cow premium! For the future, of course, we will be even more massive in dealing with the markets accordingly; the home market is the most important. This has been very successful in the past and will continue to succeed in the future. Finally, I can still appeal to the local consumers that they will continue to keep us faithful. This is the seal that all are supposed to hold on to the AMA seal, which guarantees that Austrian quality is inside! [[The speaker holds a picture on which a glass of milk, fitted with the AMA seal, can be seen in the height]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86312	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter with a desired 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86333	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you to Mr Mag. Gaßner, because this thing with the swammerel search is also very dear to my heart. I am a directly affected person, and I know that there is great legal uncertainty; sometimes one has to ask the police whether it is allowed in the respective area or not. That would be a possibility. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: If we are already talking about environmental policy, of course we also need to talk about globalisation, the world economy and neoliberalism, because globalisation simply leads to a so-called predator-capitalism, which destroys our environment to a great extent. Energy demand, measured in terms of economic resources and the development of the respective country, requires an accurate consideration, considering that energy consumption has increased worldwide since 1960 alone, is expected to grow by 70 percent by 2030 and, according to the Shell oil group, a global energy demand of almost triples of the present by 2050. Mr Minister, we from FPÖ – I am very pleased that you mentioned this in your speech – are for an absolute energy authority in Austria, because only this can strengthen and secure our economic location a little. I can still make a small comment on greenery, because it was just them that always presented themselves as the environmental party: I think the green coat just lost you. As I also know from Graz's urban policy, it is only more important for the Greens that the Austrians ride the wheel, that they eat vegetables, have three windshields on their roof, and, if possible, promote a multicultural ball with tax money every week. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the wrong energy policy, that is the wrong green policy. . I think we from FPÖ are those who support the right environmental policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86382	Mr Muchich is now speaking at a time of two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86404	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! I'm not going to bring my example today: Where steiric bacon is on it, a Styrian pig must be in it!, because I have read your press release today, and I am glad that you mentioned in it: It is important that cheese is also in there where cheese is on it. [[Abg. Singer: Mr Muchitsch, thank you for that!]] - But it's important to me where this cheese comes from. I must admit, however, that it is really not easy for you as a competent agricultural minister and not easy for all of us, given the liberalisation in agriculture, price pressure, overproductions and, of course, this development, which has led to the death of farmers. It would have been easier for you, Minister of State, to assess, recognise and implement the SPÖ's proposals. The problems are far too serious in order not to perceive them accordingly: in the dairy sector, in the mining industry, in the consumer fraud, in kernel oil, in pig production – we have exports, in imports; unfortunately, we lead animals across Europe – even in uneven promotions. I have to say the following, Mr Eßl: Of course, it is difficult for consumers to understand that there are six farms in Austria, each of which has received more than €600 000 from the EU alone in the 2008 farm premium, without promoting rural development. That is, if an agricultural holding receives €50,000 a month, only through the farm premium, then of course we have to think about it. You also have to question it and discuss it. Mr Berlakovich, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you would have been easier to accept, as already mentioned, the SPÖ's proposals, which take down party glasses! I know that in the last few days we have managed to go in the same direction, to pursue the same goal – now it is about achieving this together and as quickly as possible. Mr Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen here in this Chamber, I wish all of us much strength and success in dealing with the problems in agriculture!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86443	Mr Spadiut is now speaking for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86465	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The farmers are in front of the bankruptcy! The low milk price and low income for agricultural products force many to dissolve their farms. This also affects the whole economy. You didn't say in the past for nothing: Has the farmer money, lives the whole world! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As a result of the death of small businesses, many investments, such as for agricultural machinery, are lost, which has a negative impact on the economy. Youth sees no future to work in agriculture. This is certainly also due to the senseless system of disbursements, according to which the great and the rich are getting more and more, but the little ones are so little that they cannot survive. I wonder how all this can happen, where the farmers have the much praised AMA. The AMA receives €36 million for its administrative activities. Farmers pay to the AMA so-called marketing contributions, which are regulated by law, and thus the AMA finances AMA Marketing GmbH, which is responsible for marketing and advertising. It also receives money from the EU for promotions in the bio-sector. There are some criticisms. First: Agricultural products are becoming cheaper and farmers are getting less and less money, but the contributions to the AMA remain unchanged. Why can this be, where the AMA seal of quality is no longer of this high value compared to the organic seal of quality and the original seal of origin?- Oh, my God! Secondly, One third of the contributions are mailed in the system, for administrative expenses, manager salaries and a part that remains with the AMA – which is 7 to 29 percent, depending on the section of the contributions. [[Abg. Tadler: That's very high!]] That the administration of the ÖVP, which is occupied by the Farmers' Federation, I do not need to mention it extra. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Grillisch: But that's really stupid!]] The AMA manages the money. The money comes from September to October. Payment of the contributions will be made in December. Where does the interest rate of three months go? – That would be to question. Farmers apply twice a year: in spring for the farm premium and in autumn for the corrections for it. That's where AMA shows her true face. If there are also only the smallest errors in the applications, disbursements will be required. Where does the money go from the repayments? There is no support, no aid from the AMA to the farmers, quite the contrary, AMA controllers treat and harass the farmers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is already so far that farmers are afraid of the controls and the inspectors. – That can't be the meaning of the AMA! It is time that the AMA helped the farmers and supported them and did not continue to blame itself for inadequate support in the downfall of countless farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86537	Mr Auer has now come to speak. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86558	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Madam President. I reject the accusation that the AMA or the AMA controls are pushing the farmers back, that is not true, but they advise the farmers. That's what we find every day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Secondly, Mr Tadler of the BZÖ, whom I very much appreciate, said: The farmer creates with the last force, what the cooperative and so on. [[Abg. Tadler: For the cooperative!]] – I can remind him of whom 80 percent of the Pinzgau dairy belongs, namely a private consortium – so that it is clear! Apply yourself to this and don't throw the cooperatives, ladies and gentlemen! That's why I'd ask. [[Abg. Huber: Pinzgau milk!]] – The Pinzgau milk, yes. Thirdly, Mr Huber said that Tirol's milk would continue to be well deserved. He obviously forgot something about the fact that the Tyrolean milk managers had to release the managing director last year, because obviously the operating result was not quite the way the farmers needed it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Huber: I don't have that!]] [[Abg. Huber: Because we demanded that!]] Fourth: As Mr Strache has once again taken a campaign against Raiffeisen Austria, unless he is quite clear, he will not be able to bring a rope between Raiffeisen East, Raiffeisen West and Raiffeisen in the middle, because the following is clear, ladies and gentlemen: [[Abg. Neubauer: Niederösterreich!]] Raiffeisen Austria has 60,000 employees, the Lagerhaus Group alone has more than 1 100 apprentices each year, and that is what another company is supposed to “hump” us first – so that it is clear! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And for the fifth: I would ask you to check who is the largest meat ranchers in Austria. You will find them in your party structure, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Abg. Huber: But subcontractors are you!]] In your party structure, you will find it! [[Abg. Huber: You are the subcontractor!]] I can remind you of something I told you last week. [[Abg. Huber: The producer communities are the suppliers!]] Compare the milk price paid by the dairy industry Bergland, Austria's largest dairy – by the way not a member of the Austrian Raiffeisenverband, cooperatively organized – with the milk price to which some of your exponents have driven farmers – namely, towards Seifried – and look at how much less paid out there! [[Abg. Huber: South Tyrol!]] And yet, as Mr Schultes rightly said, they do not know where milk is going. Ladies and gentlemen, a little longer-term thinking would also be appropriate for short speeches!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86731	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86752	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Mayer von der ÖVP, you have made a “net” request today. They actually want an observer status for a nuclear waste storage. How do you imagine that? Wings You're alarming the border guard? Do you want to look over from the Mühlviertel to Oberplan and check if it's built over there in the Czech Republic? I don't understand what observer status you want. Since the Milker Agreement, the Czechs have been observed, and this observerry has not brought anything. All governments were unable to explain to the Czechs that the obligations of the Melker Agreement were also to be fulfilled. Just as the Czechs deal with us, you don't deal with neighbours, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We had the last incident recently, and in total there were already 127 incidents, ladies and gentlemen. The population of the Weinviertel, the Mühlviertel and the Waldviertel is insecure – and rightly uncertain! – through these piglets that happen there. Now the blocks 3 and 4 are to be built with €5.5 billion, and of course a nuclear waste storage site is to be built. – All of this can't be. The European Commission is silent, although it has already asked the Czechs in 2007 to launch an EIA in accordance with European law. The Austrian government has been silent about this too – for two years now! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will give you the opportunity to return to the right direction, with the following request: [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not on the count!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Federal Minister, show courage, show you that you seriously mean it with anti-atomic policy, and help the people to reduce their fears!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86829	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86924	Now comes Mr Mag. That's right. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e86946	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make two brief points which are relevant and relevant to the environment. First point: Especially in the urban area, the need for cooling energy is increasing considerably. This is a major topic especially for the Federal Capital. The current cooling method by so-called compression cooling machines is very energy-political and environmental-political, very worrying. Why? – Extremely poor efficiency, high power consumption, and so-called fluorocarbons are used as refrigerants. The construction of remote refrigeration networks could make a significant improvement. Of course, it also needs further expansion of the district heating network. However, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible for this. The management development law was adopted in the summer of 2008. However, due to the hurry that was required at that time, the notification procedure with the EU was no longer carried out prior to treatment in the National Council. However, the management development law can only enter into force when it has gone over the stage. Only €10 million is foreseen in the budget. I hope that there will be improvements and, if necessary, re-transmissions. Mr Minister, you have already said in the Committee that this issue is important. A second topic is hydropower, against whose expansion the greens always bet – I know that as a former country member in Tyrol – and especially against the pumped-storage hydroelectric power plants again and again. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: You have to see this more differentiated! That's a nonsense, Mr. Colleague.]] This is, I believe, very worrying in terms of energy and environmental policy, and I believe it also demonstrates ignorance on this issue. I would like to comment briefly on what Mr Hörl and Mr Hornek have said today about the need to reduce bureaucracy: I think the truth is somewhere in the middle, and the Greens must, if they want to bear responsibility, in my opinion, make more advertising for hydropower in all cases. I'll help you a little bit and call you the benefits of pumped-storage hydroelectric power plants. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: We don't need any help from you!]] The first advantage is that the power of pump storage hydropower plants is available within a few minutes if required. The caloric power plants last a few hours. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Come on, really?! How long have you been dealing with hydropower plants? How many are you visiting in the year?]] The second advantage is – I also like the word relatively well – the so-called black start-up capacity of pumped storage hydropower plants, which is needed in the case of total outages of power grids and for the start of other power plants. The third advantage is that pumped storage power plants – which are also called the sisters of wind energy – are needed by wind energy to store, and this is forced by the greens, and also by us. So in total, my appeal to the Greens is: Carriers You are environmentally responsible, and you are advocating the pumping water power plants! That would be my wish. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87015	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl is now speaking at 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87036	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! The climate and energy funds have been re-established, and the financial resources have been increased. This means that more funding money can be spent on research and innovation, renewable energy, photovoltaics and, in particular, on thermal rehabilitation. The increase in the budget for the climate and energy funds will benefit individuals in particular in the solar field. This is of particular urgency, as the more citizens are dealing with energy problems, the greater the chance is also to strengthen the general environmental awareness of Austrians and motivate them for climate-related measures. The Climate and Energy Fund should be able to implement sustainable energy supply and to increase the research rate. The funding is intended to support innovative projects – ahead of all in terms of energy-saving and environmentally-conscious technologies. The use of fossil energy sources is intended to soften the increased use of windmills, hydroelectric and wind power plants, geothermal heat, solar energy such as photovoltaics, solar panels, thermal power plants and the energetic use of biomass. It is particularly important to highlight the increased volume of support for the thermal renovation of buildings. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Although the information on citizens' support opportunities is now being made more complex, I am convinced that the Climate and Energy Fund can best achieve its objectives, such as increasing energy efficiency, increasing the share of renewable energy sources and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying one more sentence, why this climate and energy fund is so important to me with its task We all know how important a so-called healthy environment is for us or for the generations that follow us, and in order to receive it, we cannot and must not shy away from costs and effort! [[Abg. New builder: Wabl was also very important! Do you know Mr. Wabl?]] That is why we also need to make high investment funds available to these funds in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87079	Mr Schopf is now speaking at a speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87100	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The template is all right. Our special thanks – and this must be said at this point – apply to our interlocutors, Petra Bayr, who has negotiated many, many points with and very successfully into this presentation. Dear Petra, a special thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, not only in the environment or agriculture sector, but in all areas the motto is: It could be a little more!, but the framework conditions were certainly not easy in this budget creation, but they were very difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to use this debate to say a few words about the nuclear power plant that produces nuclear power near the Austrian border – in Temelín. This power plant is a particular problem for Austria – but especially for the Mühlviertel and, of course, for the border region – and many of my previous speakers have already mentioned it. The population is – although it has become a little calmer in some areas – uncertain, and so you have to focus on it over and over again. [[Demonstrative applause by Members Neubauer and Mag. Gaßner.]] It's a huge problem! There are pans in this nuclear power plant every month, and one should know that the operators, the responsible bodies and those responsible for the policy of the Czech Republic constantly want to focus on the expansion of Temelín and produce more nuclear power – not only for the Czech Republic, but also for exports. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context I would like to ask the Minister: Mr Minister, I believe that some of the points of the Milker Agreement are not fulfilled. I would like to ask you to tell us what initiatives are being taken here and today. They have made it clear that those points that have not been fulfilled will be addressed in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: We already had a committee!]] I would also like to speak on one point – which has also been discussed by some previous speakers – on the nuclear waste storage site, which one also wants to build on the Mühlviertler border. Ladies and gentlemen, it is almost an insult to try together for years – whether it is in the political parties or in a variety of anti-atom movements and initiatives – to make Temelín more secure, and as an answer – you can also understand this as an answer! – we want to create this camp at our border, where most of the initiatives have taken place. This is unacceptable, and it is not to be seen that such a project is being implemented by the Czech side! [[Abg. New builder: (favoring) That's a scandal!]] Mr Minister, I would therefore ask you to take the necessary diplomatic steps so that the goal set by our neighbours is dropped. I would also like to ask you – and I am now sending you a letter from my colleague Mr Petra Bayrond, in which we also ask you to do so in writing – to invite all the speakers in this House – and all the parties in this House – to our region, the Mühlvierd, as soon as possible, to a summit where we can discuss this issue with all the clarity and consistency! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87179	Mr Steier has now come to speak. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87201	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Against the economic recession, economic programmes are being launched worldwide, which raises the question of where the environment and environmental protection stand at times of the economic crisis. The Cardinal's question is: Are existing structures preserved as part of the economic packages, or is the economy designed and renewed towards greater efficiency and sustainability? Is there a consistent investment in renewable energy, energy efficiency and the modernisation of the economy? – Only in this way will the current economic crisis offer a chance against climate change. From this perspective, ladies and gentlemen, the environmental budgets 2009 and 2010 show quite correct approaches. In 2009, for example, € 68 million has been earmarked for the thermal renovation of buildings, which has already been discussed several times today. However, this volume would be expandable. More money should be spent significantly on effective and effective thermal rehabilitation. The issue of energy efficiency is also closely linked to this area. The issues of resources and energies are key economic, environmental and social issues, both nationally and globally. Our all energy and resource consumption is far too high and is significantly reduced. Energy efficiency measures not only reduce energy consumption, but promote innovation, open up new economic fields and thus create new, more competitive jobs. Dear ladies and gentlemen! For current reasons, I would also like to make a comment on waste management as an important factor in the environment. The problems and gaps in the existing system have been obvious for years and have also been critically illuminated. For some time now, the Ministry of Life has been working on reorientation and reorientation of waste management, which would be welcomed in itself. I choose the conjunctive here, because what we have so far available to information and papers from the Ministry of Life makes little mention of innovative things. The collection monopoly of the square-brained ARA is to be equally legally cemented there. Ladies and gentlemen! The new model will certainly not be able to help solve the open problems in the sense of consumers, municipalities and the environment. Since there is no official draft for the AWG- or VVO-Novelle in the Hohe Haus yet, it remains only to be hoped that in recent weeks the Ministry of Life will bring a lot of reason into these plans and that we will get a good template for decision-making to the Hohe Haus. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87252	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87273	Madam President, Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! I thank you for your consistently constructive statements and contributions on agriculture and the environment. Since it is my first budget that I have to contend with here at the federal level as the Federal Minister, this is of course a special challenge. The budget negotiations alone were already a special challenge. Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance is here. I'll tell you: I have negotiated with SPÖ finance councils in Burgenland – this was comparatively a nice thing about these negotiations with the Finance Minister of his own party. That was very hard and intense. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In the end, however, I also have to say, from the point of view of agriculture and the environment, that we have been able to set up an appropriate budget. The Minister of Finance has an overall responsibility, and the times are extremely difficult. Of course, it is necessary to respond to the economic crisis – tax relief, family relief – and, in some cases, to prevent rising unemployment. This is why the agricultural sector has also demonstrated its solidarity and is trying to make its contribution here – in the sense of a budget that is important for society as a whole. I therefore look forward to the next financial negotiations for the next budgets, so to speak, with a smiling and crying eye. But fun aside – now to the seriousness of the situation. With both budgets, both agriculture and the environment, we can make the most important choices in the agricultural sector and also in the environmental field, namely to enable farmers to manage across the board, to make investments, to pursue an ecological, environmentally sustainable path, and also to address the central question of finding answers to climate change. I'm allowed to deal with a few things that have been mentioned here. Because this is where cooperatives were criticized: You can stand for cooperatives as you like. The fact is that it is now evident, especially in the dairy sector, especially in the difficult situation, that this form of society is one that provides aid to farmers, and especially small farmers. We've seen: When the milk price was good and a number of farmers were looking for groups of free customers, this was a good thing at a high milk price. Suddenly, the milk price is falling, and suddenly the series are closed, and suddenly these farmers are alone! And under the protective cover of a cooperative construction, for example, in the wine sector, as we have experienced, but also in the dairy sector, as we have now seen, the farmers there have a chance, because they can treat larger markets as small farmers under the protection of a cooperative. Therefore: Yes, it makes sense for farmers to join together here, and the cooperative is undoubtedly a still current and contemporary form here. To the AMA. – The AMA is criticized for the variety of controls. From the bureaucracy, from the effort it is necessary to curb that. On the other hand, we have elaborate environmental programmes, which can also be demonstrated and controlled. And that's what I'm standing for! And above all: We must not forget that The AMA deserves that Austria is in the leading field of all those states that ensure a controlled payment of agricultural benefits, and we have the lowest charges on the part of the European Union. That is, we can be proud that we are able to pay out, pay out control here, and that we have no recoveries. Again and again, the accusation that the farmers give up: Nobody has denied that there is a structural change. It's no one from the agricultural policy happy about it, you can believe me. But I would like to point out that structural change has slowed down. For example, if we had operating tasks of around 23 establishments per day – exactly 23.4 – before accession to the EU, the operational tasks have fallen continuously since accession to the EU. At the beginning of EU accession, there were 14.9 farms per day, now there are about 2.9, three farms per day. I'm not saying this to beautify something. And I say once again that every company that locks up is one too much. And we're fighting to give small businesses opportunities, too. But the fact is, structural change has slowed down. And we can be proud of that because it was a result of our agricultural policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the repeated accusation of the distribution right that agricultural payments were not just distributed, only the large benefited. – I have already said it here in the House: They also receive financial support for their production because they use domestic raw materials, sugar, for example, which would be much cheaper on the world market. And this is really the dilemma that we are now experiencing in the dairy sector across Europe: Because the milk is too expensive, it is replaced, it is simply replaced by vegetable oil, in ice cream and in other products. There is no support for industrial use there. The EU says: No, we're not doing this anymore! So you have to see that this also makes sense. If at the time was criticized, the Beet Farmers' Federation would get money: He got it because one has adapted the beet squares, i.e. the takeover points, where the farmers come with the sugar beet, and there he has also managed funding in the interest of the farmers, in the interest of a decentralised system. These payments in the agricultural sector are linked to concrete benefits. Therefore they are animal-related and they are surface-related. And that is why the idea of getting as large a business as possible into the boat with an environmental programme is right, so that they can also take a biological or sustainable path here. That makes sense. If we make this so unattractive that the larger farms are no longer involved, then our environmental programme is no longer worth the name. By the way, I can point out that larger farms are already being reduced. There are different variations of reduction – modulation, size degression – which are applied here, and this money flows back into investment support for the enterprises. The dairy cow premium was mentioned here. It was never claimed that the dairy cow premium will be paid in this year – at least not by me. She'll be paid out next year. And here is my appeal to the House to decide on the Market Regulation Act – it is high time! – because all these measures that are required by you are in there. There, for example, is the dairy cow premium, where there is an improvement in the salutation – I can't do that now because the Market Regulation Act is not yet adopted – and many more things. Investment support has also been mentioned; the percentages are reduced, it says. This is a matter of country – every country has to look at the percentages. And what the Greens are doing here – I say this again – in the occupation of the Bundesanstalt für Miningnfragen, where you – yes, because you do not stop it! – On World Women’s Day, too few women are in leadership positions, and then, a month later, criticize a woman’s coming to an agrarian top position, I think is a joke. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Miss decision! That's ridiculous!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Mr. Minister, this is embarrassing!]] And that you're here with this woman... [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... University professors!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker keeps a document up to date.]] Swirls You're not with the diploma thesis! In this function, not a scientist was sought, but a head of a department! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: So no scientific staff?]] Not a scientist was sought, but a leader – and this woman meets the criteria. I don't know why you're doing this from the greens. It is curious that you, as greens, start a women's persecution here! This woman didn't hurt you. I'm surprised you're doing this to the greens. It's immense – incredible! – that you agree with this woman’s qualification! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We operate the protection of the water together, but water law matters, including protected water areas, are of course also within the competence of the federal states. I do not want to shift responsibility, but the federal states are first and foremost required, with support from the Ministry. Also when protecting against natural hazards – that is clear – attempts to maintain the funds, and that we want to appreciate and support the cultivation of wildlife and avalanche, is also clear. As far as the personnel sector is concerned, however, I must say that I cannot recruit new people without borders, because I am also asked to save. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Keep the old ones, Minister!]] I also, of course, take into account the proposals made by the SPÖ. I'm trying to take all the proposals into account, but I can't admit that I'm putting them all into practice. In any event, only as a comment on the ad refunded by the Public Prosecutor's Office for gross reluctance: Since the procedure has been terminated, I can inform you. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In conclusion, I would like to say to nuclear power: It is government policy, joint government policy of the Federal Government that we do not see nuclear power as a contribution to the resolution of climate change. Nor do we see nuclear power as a sustainable form of energy generation, i.e. renewable energy. I think this is completely absurd. That's clear. Today, for example, Italy has declared that it wants to go back to nuclear power. Although we do not yet have concrete plans from the Italians, it is clear that in all the bodies at European level – and not only as Minister of the Environment, but also as the Federal Government – we demand high security standards, in the sense and in the interest of protection, not only of the border population, but of our population as a whole. Their invitation from the SPÖ is in fact addressed to the entire Federal Government, because this is of course a national concern and is also intended to be guaranteed at the level of the Heads of Government, ultimately in agreement with the Czech Republic. In conclusion: Thank you all for your contributions. Our objective is to promote rural, environmentally sound agriculture, to safeguard food supply, to safeguard also the natural livelihoods of soil, air and water, and ultimately to ensure an effective climate protection that will ensure a viable environment for current and future generations. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87457	Mr Stauber has now come to terms with a speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87478	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! I would like to stress briefly the important role of the Climate and Energy Fund in our environmental policy. In any event, it is highly forward-looking if the KLI.EN supports energy research as a priority for support, among other things, solar thermal energy and efficient vehicle concepts and electromobility. I think that the second major priority in the field of transport is particularly important. In this context, particularly innovative solutions to increase the attractiveness of public transport, measures for the environmentally friendly conversion of transport systems or model regions for public transport are being promoted. The third major and no less important support focus includes measures to promote market launch and market penetration of sustainable energy technologies, energy efficiency measures and climate-friendly products and services. However, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a great potential for climate action to be implemented by municipalities, such as in the field of the promotion of photovoltaic installations or climate-friendly transport projects. As a mayor, I am therefore pleased that the KLI.EN will support communities that aim for the first time to form energy regions for up to two years in the development of concepts for the use of renewable energy sources and energy saving. It is also natural to welcome the increased advice of local authorities on energy efficiency measures under the municipal climate action plan. The field of sparing and noiseless electromobility is a major concern for me, which I actively support in my community, because we too have to deal with problems such as dust pollution and noise pollution. Carinthia already has a pioneering role in the field of electromobility in Austria. Since October 2008 we have been showing the highest electric car density of all federal states We are also very proud of what we are doing. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Just last week, some of us – certainly you, Mr. Federal Minister – had the opportunity to participate in the largest electric car meeting in Central Europe, during which the Carinthian Energy Award was already awarded for the fourth time, almost as a counter-event to the famous, well-known GTI meeting. It was a great event, which was particularly useful for further awareness and dissemination of this important topic. In conclusion: Mr. Federal Minister, I hope that the Federal Government will continue to enable and support the development and implementation of future, climate-active and energy-efficient forms of transport mobility through the KLI. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87561	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch, Member of the European Parliament, with five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87582	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This was really a very interesting discussion today, there were very interesting statements, in which it was clearly expressed that there is a big difference between speech and action. If we were to act as we are talking about the value of farmers – and I am delighted about that – if we were to act in this way, they would be fine. I tell you, the farmers were fine. [[Abg. Jannach: Exactly!]] If there is someone here in this room, Mr Jannach, who can promise the farmers today a prize, then do it. Then do it! That's not honest. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There is no one, we know exactly! Don't think we're stupid!]] We know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that supply and demand determine the price. If we want better prices for farmers in Austria, then we stop with sturgeon as in the previous year as part of the inflation rate, where, in particular, the Chamber of Labour constantly argued that the food is to blame, that there is this rate of inflation. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Now we have it again! You should make a new speech!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not honest. That's not honest! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The farmers have not deserved this discussion! Ladies and gentlemen, when we address a quantity tax: I see this very pragmatically. [[Abg. Jannach: A quantity tax?]] – A quantity regulation, apologies, a quota. If I notice that there is no majority in Europe for the continuation of the quota, then in Austria we are trying to find a successor model for farmers that makes it possible for them to continue producing milk in these structures in these areas! Here, too, it is quite possible to develop private-sector models – together with our processing companies, which are concerned with securing also Austria's milking site, ensuring employment in rural areas, providing a sales guarantee for farmers. Is a policy honest that advises farmers to change the processing business, to change several times, and then to stand here at the end of the day and not to have a delivery contract – and then to get the offer from the IG milk to ship the milk to Italy by 10 to 15 cents? This is not our policy, it is not an honest policy! That's where the milk gets mad, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: I think that only Mr Grillitsch gets mad!]] Mr Gaßner, I think we have had a very reasonable discussion on the proposal for an initiative, and I would also like to thank you for that. I only regret and regret that we have not been able to make an initiative today for the dairy farmers, with whom we implement the dairy cow premium and implement the increased salutation. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: The SPÖ doesn't want to!]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, you just don't want it! They speak differently here – and then act completely contrary. That's not honest, the farmers didn't deserve it. Let us change this style – I think that would do us both good: the SPÖ and also the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the Forestry Act. Mrs Binder, I say quite honestly to you, and this is an indispensable position for me and for us: The Forestry Act is sufficiently regulated. There is free movement. There is the passus that where the collection of berries and sponges is not expressly forbidden, this is also allowed. That is why, I believe, that is enough regulation. Therefore, there will be no further hallucination of property rights in the Forestry Act with us. There will be no further hallucination of property rights with us. We are for the protection of property and not for uncertainty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would particularly like to thank the Minister for Finance, but also our Minister for Agriculture, for the fact that, despite this difficult time, both of you have managed to secure jobs, to strengthen income and to strengthen purchasing power so that consumers can buy what farmers in Austria produce.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87719	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak. Mr deputies, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87754	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Grillitsch, said: The Chamber of Labour has argued that the food is a reason for inflation. – That’s wrong! [[Abg. Grill: Sure! Prove it! Provely, colleague!]] I'm correcting: In recent years, the Chamber of Labour has made up price differences of up to 30 percent for the same processed foods by price comparisons in Germany and Austria and has set out the reasons for this. [[Abg. Grill: That's not a correction, that's a lie!]] The price increases in food alone were...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87819	Mr President, you have already made the actual correction. The second part is no longer an actual correction! [[In the case of the SPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. May. Johann Maier.]] Next, Mr Magistrate. Gaßner to speak. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87870	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! I do not want to waste the time of my fellow Members on a fee, but Mr Grillitsch's statements have prompted me to make a comment here. On the one hand, Mr Grillitsch: It makes no sense at all to constantly go to the Chamber of Workers in relation to the peasants. Have you still not heard that consumers and farmers are sitting in a boat and that they belong together? And the Chamber of Workers represents consumers and farmers! Just so you know. [[Abg. Grill: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] For IG milk still: I don't know where you're going to take the liberty of yelling at the IG milk, without you talking to them. [[Abg. Grill: Sorry, but this is the next lie!]] You should also talk to this group. But that's not my problem. [[Abg. Grill: I believe that too!]] On the proposal for an initiative, because Mr. Vice-Chancellor also interpreted me as follows: After what is it, why not?, I want to say: To date, there is no proposal for initiative that we could have discussed. [[Abg. Grill: That's unimaginable!]] There's no such thing as him! [[Abg. Grill: Unimaginable! Shame!]] Where is the proposal for initiative? If he were there, we could still talk about it today, but unfortunately there is no such thing as him. I think I know why he doesn't exist. ==References====External links== In fact, on May of this year, under the heading ‘The line of the Farmer's Federation, stands for a way out of the crisis’ in the chapter ‘This is how it goes’: “Furthermore, the Farmers’ Federation will increase the political pressure on the SPÖ in Parliament...” – This is, of course, a very bad starting point for further discussions.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87963	Mr Grillitsch spoke in favour of an actual correction. Member of the European Parliament, you too know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e87988	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Gaßner, I am correct in saying that we have joined forces with a paper for an own-initiative proposal, where the points we have negotiated together were clearly settled and where we have in fact found no agreement on two points. I am sorry and sorry that this style has found entrance here and that we are dealing with each other so much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88020	Member of the European Parliament, the same as Mr Maier: At least in the second part, this was no longer an actual correction. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No, not even in the first part!]] I now have no further statements on agriculture and forestry, the environment and the water industry. That's why this sub-area is done. [[16:25:46]] Financial UG 15: Financial management UG 16: Public charges UG 23: Pensions UG 44: Financial compensation UG 45: Federal assets UG 46: Financial stability UG 51: Cash account UG 58: Financing, exchange of currencies and the text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88078	We are now entering into the negotiations on the part of finance. The first is Mr Weinzinger's speech with a desired speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88105	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! So now we have been talking about this budget for four days. We have discussed all possible facets and have always had in mind the knowledge that in this country in 2009 and in 2010 we have revenue with a certain order of magnitude, to which expenditure is facing a much higher scale. That is, we live with the awareness that in 2009 we will have a deficit of €13.5 billion – I don't want to convert it into Schilling – and in 2010 we will have a deficit of €13.2 billion. But that's not enough. We discussed four days this week, we discussed last week, we had committee meetings, we had subcommittee meetings – and now countless amendments are coming in. We should now look through, read through, calculate, accept, take note of these quickly, and possibly agree to them. – No, it won’t play, at least not with my party! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if one of these amendments is in place, we will seriously consider how much will be spent in this Republic in the future as much as can be taken, because that must also be clear to us: We can't take more than we take now. I can't do that! This is not possible, because we need to take away 100 percent of the citizen immediately, just take everything away from him and tell him it's up to us how much you get back. It won't work like that. Therefore, we will have to think in this respect, and that should have stood somewhere. Somewhere we should have stood, including in the so-called strategy report, that we are thinking about how we are stretching on the ceiling that is given to us. But we don't make these thoughts! I would like to make it clear once again: We can no longer really increase our tax rate, perhaps by 0.3 percent or by 0.8%. That means that new taxes will not go any more. With an increase in our economic performance, nothing will go in the foreseeable future, because this crisis is also a structural adjustment. That means we have to stretch to the ceiling: How much do we take, and so how much can we spend? This will be a difficult work, Mr Finanzminister, and I recommend that you deal with this work now and go into it and think about it for the next few months – together with your friends of government and your non-governmental friends – how you can manage that this Republic may still be able to clean up, because we owe it to our youth!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88151	Mr Dr. Stummfully, Mr President, has now come to speak at 5 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88172	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We've been since 21. For six weeks, this double budget was discussed here in the House, in the Budget Committee, here in the plenary session – and finally we ended up at the starting point, which was the budget hearing of the experts, where the opinion was uniform: There is basically no alternative to this double budget. This is ultimately the result of these multi-week budget consultations. Of course, this budget has all the features of a budget that is facing the biggest economic policy challenge over the last 80 to 100 years, no question at all. Of course, the necessary stabilisation of the financial markets and the impetus for growth and employment in the government budget are falling. Ladies and gentlemen, when we look at the chapter on finance, we also see very clearly that this double budget already sets the course for the next challenge, which is likely to be even greater than the challenge we are currently facing with this double budget, namely the challenge: How can we avoid paying interest for the financing of what we are doing now, once we eat our children? – This is the challenge already very clearly visible in the figures of the financial chapter. Ladies and gentlemen! I can remember how difficult it was in the years 2000 to 2007 to reduce the government debt ratio from 67 percent to 59 percent. Now it rises to 73 next year and tends to reach 80 percent. The interest burden, for years 7 billion, much too high, we have said: Now we have 8.3, and the trend is towards 11.4 billion. That is, the real challenge then comes to us in the budget that we will discuss here in a year, namely in the 2011 budget and then in 2012. I must also say that I would like to ask all my colleagues: So solve ourselves, solve yourself from the illusion that this problem can be solved via the tax side! This is certainly not going to happen unless we want to ruin Austria's economic location, because: Economic location means jobs, income and social security. If we do not want this, ladies and gentlemen, then we are facing very painful structural reforms, and they have to go through all areas. However, it is not about saving at the expense of education, saving at the expense of safety, saving at the expense of health. It is about using these funds as efficiently as possible. I've already said I don't know a cop who doesn't say too much bureaucracy. I don't know any teacher who doesn't say too much bureaucracy. I don't know a doctor who doesn't say too much bureaucracy. – There are potential savings, ladies and gentlemen! But I would like to admit, of course, that we have difficulties, and I would also like to express them quite openly. The first difficulty – there is in every democracy, with which we have to live – is: You can be a hundred times convinced that your opinion is the right one if you don't have a majority, that won't help you! - Okay. That's what you have to live with. The second is – and this can already be solved – that we must necessarily respect the principle: Reforms, structural reforms are only going with those concerned and never with those affected! You can never make an educational reform against the teachers. You can never make a health reform against the doctors. And you will never be able to do anything against the executive in the field of security. That means: Reforms with stakeholders and not against those concerned. The third point – a very delicate point, I am speaking openly to him once, ladies and gentlemen – is: As Parliament, we are the supreme body of the federal government. We only have one problem: None of us live in covenant, dwell in covenant, and work in covenant. Each of us lives, lives and works in a community, a region, a federal state. Of course, there are strong emotional ties – to his community, to his region, to his federal state. Just, honestly, we have to get rid of an attitude that was a very negative key experience for me about 20 years ago: At the time, there was a controversy in Parliament between the federal government and countries in the field of hospital financing/health telephone financing. At that time, I have a powerful head of state – he's no longer in office today; I don't call a name either – the beautiful Pronunciation belongs to: If one of my Members in Parliament agrees, he has been a Member of Parliament for the longest time. Ladies and gentlemen, with this attitude we will not solve the problems. In other words, we are incredibly demanding a communicative challenge, that we also say to our friends in the communities, in the regions, in the countries: We are basically sitting in a boat, and if we fail to bring the state budget back in the next few years, it will not be good for the communities, not good for the countries. We're in a boat here! If we talk about Austria's economic location in terms of jobs, income and social security, we must all be clear, the economic location Austria is the sum of nine agricultural sites, ladies and gentlemen. We must tackle this challenge, as we are called on to talk to our friends in the communities, in the regions, in the countries; in the end, we are in a boat. I believe that only in this way will we overcome the challenges. I would like to say once again that there will be great challenges. It will be more difficult to save expenditure than spending more money, but it will only be so, because the problem will not be solved over the tax side.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88263	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Lugar with 5 minutes speaking time. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that your group still has 10 minutes of total residence. Then I'll set the clock to 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88285	Madam President. High house! I now put forward three motions for resolutions. Resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Finance, are invited to use emphasis at European level for the introduction of a Europe-wide speculation tax.” motion for a resolution two: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Finance is asked to set up immediately a clearing body which is appropriate to prevent in the past the abuses also identified by the Court of Auditors in the area of comprehensibleness and transparency of financial flows to the European Union and the return to Austria.” motion for a resolution three:...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88329	Deputies, slowly! I just didn't find the request you've read. - One second, please! Of course, I'll take your time off. We are waiting for the motion for a resolution. This amendment has been announced to us for Mr Linder, but it has also been tabled. - Please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88347	motion for a resolution three: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government and the Federal Government respectively. The Federal Chancellor is invited to submit to the National Council a draft law to amend the Federal Constitutional Act, which will ensure that, as a member of the European Commission, only those persons who are not a political party and who have the appropriate professional qualifications for the exercise of this function will be in question in the future.” – That does not matter. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] In principle, that doesn't do anything anyway. These motions for resolutions will in any case be rejected. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's good!]] And that's exactly the point. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: That's a fool! That's unlikely! Shame!]] I don't have time, but I still say it: If I have to hear from Mr Stumpfully that he wants the opposition to work here in this House, and after so much discussion and so many legitimate objections of the opposition you will find no one point – not one! – which you take up in any form and do not change anything in our sense of this decision-making today, then I can only say one thing: They're lost miles! We all – I don't know what it's like with you, but we certainly all have to do better than discuss things where you're not willing to listen in any form of opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88434	The three motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore also under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88580	The next speaker is Mr Krainer, who is speaking for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88601	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, it is not the case that nothing will be changed at the end of this budget, but there are changes. Previously, Mr Weinzinger has muttered about the fact that so many amendments with so many amendments have been tabled with so many figures. Now I hear, nothing is changed at all. To the colleague Weinzinger you have to say: You have had most of the amendments for two weeks. There have been small changes in figures, yes, but of course we are trying to inform the opposition both informally and officially about what we government parties are planning. It is true that something has changed technically in an amendment because of co-financing in the field of rural development, but, I believe, we have tried quite exemplaryly and in the long term to inform you of the opposition. As a summary of the debate over the last few weeks, it can be said that what has been said at the outset has also proved true, namely that there is essentially no alternative to this budget. Even in the budget hearing of all experts, the summation has already been drawn, that essentially – in detail areas there has already been criticism – but that essentially the budget is an alternative and can also be supported from an expert point of view. In any event, I would stress from a political point of view that the priorities of this budget for work, for education, for research and development, for safety, for tax reduction and for health are the right priorities, and that, especially in the crisis, higher deficits are deliberately acquired here. And, Mr Weinzinger, this is a good thing, because if you started to clean up budgets and try to achieve surpluses at a time like this, then that would lead to economic developments, as we had in the 1930s. [[Abg. Bucher: No one would have expected of you anyway, but of the ÖVP!]] I believe that we cannot wish for an economic development, and not even a political development like that in this Parliament in the 1930s. That is why, with this budget, it is right to do exactly the opposite of what Mr Weinzinger at least insinuated here. At the end of the day, of course, the question is: How do you get down with the deficit? – That’s a legitimate question. And of course, the first – which is always necessary regardless of the economic situation – is to check expenditure for efficiency: a) Is this issue necessary?, b) Is the money used efficiently, or can I make it more efficient? But let's get rid of the false belief that we could get this deficit down purely on the expenditure side! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Watch out, my colleague!]] This will not only go on the expenditure side. Please let's get rid of this mistaken belief! We also need to think about revenue and the revenue structure, and we also need to think, regardless of the economic situation, how we can make the government's revenue more just than it is today. [[Abg. Bucher: We will hear that for two years now!]] We have already discussed in detail in plenary about obvious injustices in the tax system, especially on the revenue side, and also about a tax reform. For this there is also the tax reform committee which we have prescribed in the government programme or which we have agreed on ourselves. This is also a question of eliminating these injustices. Finally, I would like to thank the budgetary speakers of all parties. It is the first time we have dealt with the budget here under new budgetary law. I believe that we will also have to consider carefully how in practice we are rethinking current control and financial statements, as well as the good and less effective parts of the debate here in the Committee and in the plenary, and how we, as Parliament, want to deal with budgetary control both in the first and the second stages of the budgetary reform with ongoing budgetary control and also with the closure of the accounts.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88668	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. He wants a speech time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88690	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! A brief summary after several weeks of budget debate: The figures for the 2010 budget will not be very likely. You know that and you say: Don't do anything! – Eleganter would be able to assess the situation in autumn and set a more reliable budget. But be it. In any case, this is the problem of the double budgets, which, of course, will be particularly striking in this particular situation. Secondly, The deficit is high, remains high in 2010. This is – thirdly – right, because de facto there are no alternatives to the fact that the deficits are at least higher, even if one makes sense and logically the so-called automatic stabilizers work. Where there is room now – fourth – we would of course have had different ideas, where investment is placed, perhaps even more than now. In part, this is more of a paper work. Whether and to what extent BIG’s investments – if they were even budget-relevant at all – actually result in something in 2009, 2010, is on a different sheet. We would have had other proposals here that might have caused a higher deficit by one tenth or another. We know that, however, we can say that here, because we are among the few, who then – fifthly – confess that, in a few years, when the economic upturn actually came, we actually have to fight the deficit and, as Mr Krainer said at the end of the day, we have to put in place revenue-side measures. It is illusory, Mr President, to believe that we are only doing this on the expenditure side. [[Abg. Dr. stupidly: “Only” I didn’t say!]] Mr Krainer said that it is illusory if you just want to make it on the expenditure side. I am glad that at the very end, in the last round there is, something like a hint of parliamentary freedom has come about and everyone has actually said something, though only in the shortest sentences. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have said yes – and with this I am referring to item 6 – that we need to talk about it now, if we also have to do something on the expenditure side – here we are also together; yes, we are, I am just praising it – that we finally have to talk about it – because otherwise we cannot hear it at all, you know it: [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] Administrative reform, State reform et cetera – also with the representatives of the countries, the regions, and unlike us, Mr Molterer, during the government negotiations in 2003, where more or less the heads of state were sacrosanized with their will and demands. That's what we have to do differently. That's all clear. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. – Nevertheless, it will not be enough. Let us remember now where we will be standing 2012, 2013 – Professor Van der Bellen has briefly outlined it –: Of a debt of €180 billion now, it is probably at €250 billion. It is similar even in your strategy report. Only: You know exactly what this means for the interest rate burden. Furthermore, we do not know whether the assumptions that are clearly set out here are going to keep the interest rate level so low at all. This is a very optimistic assumption. And in this area, at €250 billion, we have debt, of course, with the variation of 1 percent in the interest rate already €2.5 billion more or less deficit. I am only saying this about the additional interest payments because I cannot imagine that, despite all the efforts and good speeches made on national leaders and regional politicians, we can get this from the dimension. It's going to be around several billion. If you take €10 billion, then in 2013 the nominal figure is good 3 percent of the gross domestic product we may have to go down – and then we are still in the negative balance, that is, the deficit. But if you only wanted to save €10 billion on the expenditure side and you would just put it on posts in the budget, well, then we'll come – who helps me expect it!? – 200 000 officials or something. That's where we can lock the whole state! You won't want to. – So you will have to think about a lot. But, as has been said, the good thing is that both Mr Krainer and your colleague, Mr Stumpfully, have spoken a few truths. Perhaps this is due to the time or to the camp cooler we are exposed to here. I wanted to keep this positive. A little less positive: We discussed a few key figures in the Committee on the financial chapter, which is actually the subject of the debate. The opposition was of course interested in the question: What about the backflows from the bank package? Is this really such a great business, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, as you said? And a few things are already striking: For this year, €36 million is set. These are obviously the ones – because this happens with a year of delay – that one has expected from the Hypo Alpe-Adria. That would have been exactly €36 million, in relation to the capital given there. – Well, there you were very optimistic! Then: If the reports of the Banking Committee had led you back to mind or had you even followed the daily press, we would of course not need to write in €36 million of revenue in this budget, because there is no money that will not be made, that was clear to everyone. It's already outside. A profit from the Hypo Alpe-Adria is of course not to be expected. The higher interest rate of 9.3 percent does not help us at all, because 9.3 percent of zero is just as zero as 8% of zero. That's the way it is: 36 million perdu! – But that doesn’t matter anyway, because that’s nothing from the dimension yet! For 2010, Mr Vice-Chancellor – you were represented by the Secretary of State in the Committee when the Secretary of State then had to jump to the officials because he did not find the budget figures so dizzy; be it, have It accounts for € 586 million or € 583 million – now I do not know so precisely myself – in revenue from these return flows from the participation capital. But these are better said, as measured by what will be outside of the participation capital at that time, 75 percent interest return – or dividend return flows. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] - Yeah, that's an estimate. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Okay!]] Also the 75 percent. I understand. I think that's better than if you write in 800 million. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Prill: 100 percent!]] On the other hand, you say: You are not as sure as you have always explained to the Austrians that this is such a super-business for the state and that we still get back our 8 percent, as measured by the participation capital. It's not that simple! Some of us believe that I recognize that you have made your euphoria, but we also agree that you have promised something else in the press conference a few weeks before at least in this area – and that is now at least €200 million difference – yet something else. A difference of €200 million that is missing, measured by the promises you made to the Austrians on the occasion of the bank package, because you have always acted as if this were a pretty safe business for the Republic. – Now: 200 million € have already been written down in kind of budgetary terms. We'll see how it goes. You can't know it anyway – I'll give it to you. I'm afraid it'll be more. Finally – what you always have with silence – it is of course so – but we now also find it in your numbering work – that just under €400 million of interest costs for the Republic itself, in order to absorb these funds at all and to be able to place them as equity in the banks! So, like you said, a great deal, it's obviously not. But neither do we wish for it, just so that we are right that it will be very bad. But that it is much worse than you presented it, we have provided this evidence in the committee. And that is how it should now be in the Minutes. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] - They laugh. But you did understand the bill, didn't you? - I take this as a compliment. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Let's hope it won't get bad, just so you're right!]] Look, we agreed that there were little alternatives to this law back then. The regulation was a little worse. And if the EU had not been, it would have been much worse. And now we're missing €200 million from what's been announced here. Finally, I come to a very different point – that is little more convenient –: The Group of the Liberals is a group that is always explaining how to reduce deficits with more expenditure when it comes to budgetary policy – the first speaker has lived it again; that is what we are used to. But if you already place such a great deal of emphasis on correct use of taxpayers' money, then you can be said: This work “The Blue Planet” has been properly described here a few times in the last days as an unfavorable work of work. Let's not go into what's inside! But one thing is certain: With political education along the appropriate laws and guidelines, this has nothing to do with a free eye, absolutely nothing! - On the contrary. [[Abg. New builder: This isn't green either!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I'm not going to make this assessment. I'm just telling you the following – with your entire running crew in there or what, where you obviously feel comfortable; yes, stay there!; this is not the topic, the topic is another –: That such a lubricating tax money is misused! [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Neubauer, Dr. Kurzmann and Dr. Königshofer.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:Should the alcotest be made today?]] I tell you very precisely, we will look at this in the Court of Auditors, and we will also call on the Federal Chancellor, who is responsible for the Federal Government, to recover this money – and this is obviously about several hundred thousand euros – on the spot! The only thing you can do quickly to get back some sparks of credibility here is to pay for it immediately from the party – but not this so-called Freedom Education Institute to finance these pamphlets there through tax-money abuse. [[Abg. Neubauer: What does the “so-called” mean?]] We won't let you do that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Here we will ask you! You!]] The case is already active in the Federal Chancellery. And we're not going to let you out of there – because with such a wound, penetrating the youth and then misuseing tax money, that's really the last thing!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88891	Now comes Mr Mag. Molterer's word. 4 minutes desired speaking time. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the ÖVP has a total of 15 minutes of remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88912	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the budget discussion of the last few weeks has been overshadowed and determined by the crisis situation in the economy worldwide, Europe-wide and thus also in Austria. And with all the criticism in detail, it is clear to everyone in this area that there is no alternative at all to this budget and to this strategy of the budget, because, in view of the situation – so difficult that is – of course, it is necessary to invest in the labour market, of course, money has to be taken into account in the field of investment, of course, in the field of research and development. The logic, ladies and gentlemen, is that in this situation, of course, the political contribution in the budget is visible from the political responsibility of the Federal Government. And that means: We have more expenditure than originally planned. As a result of economic development, we will have less revenue than we all hoped. And the result is: a deficit which no one is pleased with, but which is simply alternativesless in the present situation. I appeal to all those who have been critically accompanying these last weeks: If it now means and needs to achieve this budget – I congratulate Josef Pröll and the Federal Government on this power act – it must be clear that the question of what the next steps after this budget are needs to be at least equal amount of effort and effort. And especially for Austria – a small, open economy – the crucial question, ladies and gentlemen, is that, of course, we must do everything we can to bring the budget back into the right balance on the expenditure side, in the sense of young people in this country. But I also know that the expenditure page alone can't be it. Only, the crucial point is: When we think of the revenue side, I don't think that we are setting the right signals with tax increases, but it would be interesting for me to see if there is a consensus in this House that we are devoting this power to growth, ladies and gentlemen, because the revenue side is only really developing in the right direction when the economy grows when the businesses have employees when profits are written. In this sense, it also needs to be done in the light of the European background. This, I tell you, is also far too short in the budget discussion. We will only do this if we have a strong common European currency, a strong, successful euro. This will only work if we have a strong European Central Bank. This will only be successful if we jointly implement economic recovery at European level, ladies and gentlemen, also the banking packages, Mr Kogler, at European level. You know, we should be interested together in the fact that it is as good as possible! In some of the discussions I had the impression, quite honestly, that it would be as bad as possible so as to be as right as possible. – I would not see that as a political responsibility to go in this direction together. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] What we also need in this context is a clear European commitment and a perspective, because this new architecture at the financial centre and for financial markets will only create – with all confidence in red and white nature – in Europe and with Europe. And this European Union, ladies and gentlemen, has not removed the Stability and Growth Pact, and that is a good thing! It will therefore also force us – as it now enables us to invest properly, it will then take us in the duty – to re-establish the Stability Pact together. And that means: The next act of strength means getting to grips with the expenditure side, ladies and gentlemen – certainly also with the difficulties that Günter stupidly addressed – and creating an economic policy that will increase as quickly as possible after the crisis. This is done well in this Federal Government in the responsibility of Josef Pröll. That's where he needs our support! This is the right perspective for our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88975	Mr Themessl has now come up with a speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e88997	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Finanzminister, I do not think that you will change something serious in this budget and in your financial figures, although you know that all three opposition parties agreed on one point, namely that you have created this budget on the basis of completely false assumptions and false economic data, which was not only criticized by the opposition parties here, but of course also by a variety of economic researchers outside of the Wifo or the IHS: But just to show you that you actually have very little thought about what a crisis is leading to, I would like to give you a small example. You don't have to be a gleamer to know that black work is flourishing in economically difficult times. In Austria she is galloping right now. Now we have the fact that the KIAB and the Federal Competition Authority were already in the 1. Quarter of this year have revealed twice as many cases as they existed during the comparison period of last year. Not even there were you willing to take measures to strengthen these two institutions, especially because these two institutions did not cost you money. On the contrary! These are some of the few institutions that bring money to the state if they can work efficiently! - That's just an example. In order to conclude this debate over the last four days, perhaps another positive one to show that there are, of course, also companies that claim to be very good on the market and which are innovative in addition to an inconsistency-free federal government in Austria. If I can now believe the absolutely latest reports of the “Kurier”, I would like to congratulate the management of the company and all the key players of the Magna company for taking over the Opel works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e89033	Now comes Mrs Mag. Rudas with 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e89065	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators at the audience gallery: Welcome to Parliament! I think we don't have a manual on how to deal with times like this. This is not established anywhere, and I believe we have never experienced such a crisis – nor you nor the entire federal government. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] [[Abg. Grosz: He is ÖVP-Obmann! Persistent Crisis!]] That is why I think this budget can be seen. We quickly and in time recognized the crisis. And the SPÖ has insisted on the appropriate measures, starting with the promotion of tax relief, but also on employment packages and investment in education. I believe that this budget is proof that if parties refrain from engaging in each other and abandoning party hack as their own purpose, but instead of working with each other well, working for people, not making politics abstract, but trying to ensure that politics is also tangible, tangible and comes to people, then something like this budget comes out. And I think it can be seen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the right priorities to be set today: Investment, job security, but also the creation of new jobs. But even in times like this one must not forget the boys and invest in education. Mr Molterer said that the boys will have to pay the budget once – yes, and the boys naturally also insist on a system change. What we are doing now is repairing a sick system, but what we naturally need to do and what we need to work on is to change a wrong system, especially in the European Union. In a little more than a week, we will have the election to the European Parliament and we must fear that the vote will be small. [[Abg. Grosz: Especially for the SPÖ!]] If we move people to reach a new Europe, a more just Europe, a different system in Europe, then we must also do it on 7 July. It's the first time that I've ever seen it. It's the first time I've ever seen it. I would like to thank all those who have been involved in this budget, but above all all all all those who spoke on the subject, all Members of this House and colleagues who have discussed a lot of things over the last few days and weeks, who have discussed vehemently, have discussed controversy – that is also good. But once again – I emphasize –: Especially in times like this one should abandon party hack and polemics. Mr Grosz and Mr Westenthaler, you have to get used to making calls all the time, because there are people up there who find this more than embarrassing. That's why I'm saying: Especially in times like this, in times of crisis one should keep together, politics as what it is, and that is something that the world can change, something positive, something that wants to shape. And last week we had a chance to do this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e89123	Mr Linder has now come to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e89145	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Krainer said today that he and the SPÖ were always trying to inform the opposition. That's where I like the 14th. In May, the time after the Committee, when not even the members of the government parties were informed, was to be voted on. You can remember this chaos when all the committee members were standing outside. I think it was you who blamed the Minister where the Secretary of State was and said that we do not know what it is all about. [[Abg. Krainer: Go, please!]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, he has said stupidly that he has never experienced such a chaos at all and asked: What are we gonna do? Until Klubobmann Cap said: Please, let us withdraw and advise! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] The committee started one and a half hours later, because no one knew what it was all about; not even her own was informed – and then did you want to inform the opposition? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They continue to say that in the future we should think a little bit and think about what we are doing with the budget. That's exactly what we asked for. We should think about the 2010 budget, push it a little backwards and recalculate it. I am pleased that I am from the National Council meeting of 26 March. May quote. I quote: “I also believe that we should not forget the budget of one in the entire debate, and that has already been said today: The budget has been created at a time when we have not yet known exactly how this crisis could affect – and we still do not know exactly, I say.” [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] That was none other than the Minister of Women Heinisch-Hosek. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh! At least she's recognized it!]] I believe that if even the Minister has recognized that they have built on false figures, we should go back to the start with the 2010 budget and build it on correct numbers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I hope, Minister and Vice-Chancellor, that you will take this to heart and think about the fact that our budget is based on wrong figures.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e89233	Mr Auer has now come to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e89256	Madam President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Given the economic environment and the difficult situation, I am convinced that the government has taken the right steps to stabilise and deal with these problematic economic conditions. [[Abg. Bucher: Raiffeisen!]] However, I am also aware that the much more difficult steps are still ahead of us, namely when it is really about rehabilitating the budget. The uncertainties in the forecast data are always present, that is undisputed, but so far – even that is undisputed – the Wifo's forecasts have always proved very reliable. In any case, they are much more reliable than some of the Nobel laureates, even though he is called Krugman, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has already been carried out: There is no alternative to the current situation and to this budget. There were exciting discussions: I claim that the new situation and the new procedure in the budget subcommittee discussions were quite invigorating, that ministers were much more demanding that it might be possible to think here in the House perhaps about a change. I've already done that. I am now submitting a number of applications, namely, first of all, to the Federal Financial Framework Act, an amendment in 2. Reading by Jakob Auer, Jan Krainer on the Federal Financial Framework Act 2009 to 2012 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2010 to 2013 (110 of the Supplements), which reflects the amendments to the amendments to the Federal Financial Laws 2009 and 2010. Twelve amendments in 2. Reading on the Federal Financial Act 2009 (111 of the Supplements) of Deputies Jakob Auer, Jan Krainer and two five-party applications for the Parliament budget of Deputies Jan Krainer, Jakob Auer, Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, Ing. Robert Lugar, Mag. Werner Kogler plus € 10 million as well as changes in the “Top Institutions” area with changes in the divisional division of the presidential office due to the five-party application Nulllohnerrounde, Constitutional Court based on the five-party application Nulllohnerrounde, Volksanwaltung on the five-party application Nulllohnerrounde, Court of Auditors on the five-party application Nulllohnerrounde, Bundeskanzleramt on the five-party application Nulllohnerrounde as well as repatriations and the administrative academy; State defense and sport due to the general promotion of sports and gambling laws an increase of €6 million for the 2009 budget year; finance due to the amendment of the Komustria Act to the Budgetary Accompanying Act; Health additional promotion of the animal welfare measures plus €1.5 million; teaching with the agreement of teachers with the Ministry of Education; Agriculture and forestry with regard to broadband promotion plus €3.8 million for the next five years. Eleven amendments in 2. Reading on the Federal Financial Act 2010 (112) of Deputies Jakob Auer, Jan Krainer and two five-party applications for the Parliament budget of Deputies Jan Krainer, Jakob Auer, Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, Ing. Robert Lugar, Mag. Werner Kogler plus € 10 million as well as changes in the “Top Institutions” section with changes in the division of the President’s Office, Constitutional Court, Public Prosecutor’s Office, Court of Auditors, Federal Chancellor’s Office on the basis of the five-party applications, Nulllohnrrounde and the Administrative Academy; State defense and sport due to the general sports promotion and gambling law a plus of €16.5 million; finance due to the amendment of the Komustria Act to the Budgetary Accompanying Act; Education of the same and agriculture and forestry as already carried out. The applications were distributed in good time. I'm asking for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e89350	I have observed very carefully whether these large applications were also explained in the key points. That's what happened. They are already distributed and are therefore in treatment. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Can the President please provide a brief summary and explanation?- Oh, my God!]] The 28 applications have the following general words: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e91503	Next, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Van der Bellen, spoke for 8 minutes. The Greens have a total of 18 minutes remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e91524	Madam President. I'll try to be shorter. – The budget is essentially Keynesian. This amuses me in that, when we had a finance minister over the years, a famous theorist of the macro-economics called Karl-Heinz Grasser, who for years has tried to survive with millions of subsidies of neoliberal think tanks, who wanted to make us aware that Keynesianism, that is, the theories of John Maynard Keynes, are dead and even for the paper basket. What does the dissertation of Karl-Heinz Grasser, which he announced to us at the time? It was about Austria's financial policy. I'd be interested if he'd learned something about it in the meantime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] Mr Molterer, that in the crisis the deficits of the state are rising, that is good, right, important and acceptable. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Is that your level?]] That's not a question at all. That is why I am less criticizing what is in the budget, but what is not in the budget. And unlike Mr Krainer, for example, I do not believe that these 2009/2010 budgets have a focus on research and development at universities, colleges of research and development. I can only say: Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, Last afternoon there was a celebration for a colleague from my institute at the University of Vienna, an American speaker, in an audience hall with a door to a kind of balcony. She didn't close, it got murderous, street noise came in, acoustics – an insanity. You always had to change the place to understand anything. These are the conditions! It will cost us billions to fix these conditions over time. I do not see any approach here for the time being. - First of all. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Secondly, Mr Molterer, you hope – and the hope can be shared – that we can, as it were, return to rising tax revenue over economic growth, which hopefully comes back in one, two, three years. – Let’s hope we all do that. I can only say that you are missing something important in an essential point. The International Energy Agency published a new study a week ago, a forecast of the supply situation mainly in oil and gas. It predicts sharp supply bottlenecks with the corresponding price explosion on the oil and gas markets. Not at some point, but in 2012/2013! Right then, if we hope that economic growth will once again be stimulated and economic growth will at least be higher than it is today. But you have to take care of it for this time. This means that today it is necessary to invest in energy efficiency or in renewable energies – not 2012/2013 when it is too late. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bucher.]] States that – how should I say? – pursue an intelligent policy or at least try it like the US, like South Korea and some European country, but unfortunately not Austria, today refer to this situation and invest accordingly. Austria is not doing this! I can only say who is still on oil and gas today will wake up with a nightmare – no matter if it is a private budget or those responsible for the federal budget. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bucher.]] What we also miss – I say very briefly – is in the strategy report some statement about how to deal with the coming consolidation crisis. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's all!]] – The Minister says: “That’s all!” – The crisis is coming. But the crisis is guaranteed, namely the consolidation crisis. I don't know what else's coming. I have heard with interest today – perhaps I have heard – that Mr President, in 2013 the interest rates were modestly estimated at 11.4 billion. The strategy report results in 10 billion or 10.5 billion. That would be 3.5 billion more than last year. 11.4 billion is 4.5 billion more than last year. I mean, only the 3 billion – because I am by chance also a foreign-political speaker – would have included seven times the entire budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including all embassies and consulates, and the ADA, the Austrian Development Agency, also included. Seven times! And you want to bring this about administrative reforms? Yesterday – I forgot “the press” on my pult – was an article in the press about the ongoing negotiations in the school sector between the federal government and countries. When the negotiations have begun, the federal government is in particular fighting Lower Austria about how to reform the schools. Lower Austria wants to attract everything – except financing. Of course, the Federation should continue to be responsible for them. [[Abg. Brosz brings an issue of the “press” to the speaker’s desk.]] - Thank you. – The Federation reasonably represents different views. That's what it says at the beginning: After just a few weeks of sand in the gearbox of this Administrative Reform Commission. ‘(...): In terms of administrative reform, the Murmeltier greets, as it were, with the regularity of a legislative period.” – Let us hope that this is pessimistic and not realistic. One more word for tax recovery. This is not a gift to companies, but the idea is to allow companies to pay some taxes a little later on, that is to say, according to their own mind, what is good and right. That's the meaning of a tax bill. This would have an impact on small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. The large companies – we have heard – will receive a 10-billion package with additional liabilities under the 100-billion package. It will certainly only be effective for large companies that the federal government assumes liability here. But what happens to the others? – It would certainly make sense to allow for a temporary, temporary tax recovery. This is unbureaucratic. There's no need for an evaluation committee and a similar one. This is extremely flexible. That is, if you want to, liberal, because each company itself decides: Do I pay this tax the same as originally planned, or three months or six months later? And that doesn't cost the federal government anything if we assume that the tax base will be interested, we say, with the rate of the secondary market return. There are the net costs for the federal government. In any case, it is cheaper for companies than to get a bank loan and, above all, faster, right now and not at some point. - Thank you. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bucher.]] By the way: The request has already been submitted. I hope that You will agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e91626	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e91647	Mr President. Dear, empty government bank! The debate gives me the opportunity to address the importance of the international financial institutions, which are responsible for the Ministry of Finance. A wide range: The World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the various regional development banks, MIGA, IDA and as they all call, are, in total, a very powerful means of development cooperation and have a very wide range of different topics and areas that cover them. Although Austria, of course, has a relatively small share of voting rights in these various banks in relation to the size of our country and the size of our economic potential, it is not that we have no influence. So there is also the possibility to participate, to speak with and to form with politics, for example, that for a long time just from the point of view of I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent work, for his excellent work and for his excellent work on this subject. In my view, discussing Austrian development policy as a whole and in coherence is a very important matter. I would therefore very much like to invite the Minister of Finance to come to one of the next developmental subcommittees in autumn, because I believe it is important to discuss and adapt positions in Austria's policies in the international financial institutions and to see that there really is a common line that may not be counter-carriaged by other policy areas. Furthermore, I regret the fact that the development policy supplement to the budget is not yet in place, that it will obviously be there only after the budget debate. Perhaps the next time we have this again in parallel to the budget debate, it is a very important source of information. What I welcome in this context, however, is the very long planning, the long-term planning in the international financial institutions. We have only recently taken a decision on the donation of such a bank until 2019 and 2020. I would also like to see this long-term long-term for very many other resources and for many other budget heads in the development policy context. Now that we have five-year prospects, I believe that this will be much easier, even easier for the design of bilateral development cooperation. Five-year preview: The current five-year preview also includes the complete Kyoto period. Since it is still to be expected that we may not reach our Kyoto target, I have been interested in the question for weeks and months: Then how will the gap be closed financially? Unfortunately, neither Mr Lopatka nor Mr Umweltminister gave me an answer. I am quite sure, however, that the Minister of Finance has a plan, as we are dealing with the possible payments, which, in addition to rehabilitating the budget after the crisis, are dealing with Kyoto commitments. I would be very interested in an answer. At the end of the day, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Secretary of State for this. I believe that he is one of those members of the government who have been here the farthest in the budget debates of recent years. I would express my appreciation that you have not only been sitting here with those chapters that concern you, but also with very, very many others. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] This is a great award and testifies to the seriousness of this Parliament. Thank you very much for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e91714	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e91738	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! We are approaching the final after four days of intense discussion. I have two more motions for resolutions to make. First request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It's about the credit terminal. Especially for operating funds loans, there are increasingly poorer conditions for banks or they are even rejected. We therefore want an adapted support facility to be created for the duration of the crisis. Second request: Resolution Mr Bucher, colleagues, on the removal of pension privileges in the Austrian National Bank The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Finance is invited to submit to the National Council for the Elimination of OeNB Pension Privileges a draft law prohibiting the granting of additional retirement pensions and thus achieving equality with ASVG insured persons.” This is a discussion already in the nineties. The Oesterreichische National Bank itself has imposed a reform, but this still means that up to 80 percent of the last deal will be paid out. The Court of Auditors has also expressed criticism in this regard. The gross average pension is currently 69 700 €. This means that this also entails a reduction in the amount of profit distribution to the federal government. I think that a change would only be fair and fair. In the debate, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to thank you for your support. Task: How to get the debt back down, which will be an even more difficult one. I can only say: This is absolutely acceptable, that is to be underlined! Everyone is now required to think about the future. There is a constant need for administrative reform. We need a big administrative reform, we need a state reform. That is why my appeal to the government parties to get off the high Ross. At least try to involve the opposition parties! I think that's where very wise ideas come from. In any case, you need a constitutional majority for a health reform and for a school reform. They have not caused these reforms in the last two years of the last period of government. The dictatorship of the empty cash registers, however, will force you to do so. You have to do this, because the debate that is already under way: How will we get money?, you will force action. There is a proposal to bring in money via new taxes. To this end, the ÖVP says: No way! Another proposal is to exploit savings potential. You have to start right now, to find out everything about savings potential. Therefore, my appeal to you: Imagine the state interest in the party! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The party interest is always filled with the word “federalism”. What my colleague has said stupidly here was more or less a confession to all that has been forbidden in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] Yeah, you'll try to do what country captain Dörfler wants. The ÖVP has definitely prevented all of this from happening with its national leaders. They set up the Austrian Convention, but results were not recognizable. They always suggested federalism as an argument at the time. I address the urgent appeal to you: Make it better now, because you have hardly any more possibilities! When new taxes are addressed, I can only say: The objective must be to ensure a strong economy with full employment and, from this point of view, to increase tax revenue in order to achieve higher tax revenue. I think you can do it without raising taxes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e91854	The two applications are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e91948	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e91970	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Windholz, we will then consider how the head of state of Carinthia reacts. But we should also look at how Carinthia is managed. Today one can be found in the “Small Newspaper” under the title “Carinthia financial policy. ” Hole on – hole to “read the following – quote –: “Many suggest that the day of billing is closer than one wants to admit to the citizen. The fact that not only country companies are struggling with the reception of new loans, but also the country itself, let experts shriek the alarm bells. At the end of 2008, EUR 1.7 billion was the country’s total debt burden.” – Quotes. If you criticize the budget here and criticize that we are making debt in economically difficult times, please look at yourself at home in Carinthia, in your own country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Can we take a look at Lower Austria? Three times as high per capita debt as in Carinthia! First of all, then talk!]] We have only heard from the opposition all the time that everything is bad and everything is so difficult. I'll tell you: Priorities such as the maintenance and creation of new jobs and thus the increase in tax revenue are crucial. When we talk about tax justice, we also need to talk about tax morality. I have already mentioned this during the last sittings. Unfortunately, I do not have so much time to say this again, but I mean to talk about low or less taxes and not always about new taxes, that is crucial, and the taxes that already exist belong to them. The Minister of Finance must have every control that companies and others who are subject to capital taxes are actually taxed, namely, in the case of speculations of share profits. He needs our support. In this sense, we must do everything and not always be sorry. One thing is certain: The budget is good and important.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92012	Next speaker: Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92034	Mr President. Estimated government members! In my opinion, Mr Molterer said something very essential when he said that the European financial market needs control. This is to be enforced, I believe, all of our efforts. Mr Financier, I would like They urge you to work for it first and, secondly, to ensure that those responsible for this financial fiasco do not predominantly cooperate. It should be so that politics has the say in it, and not those who have caused this chaos. I think that's quite, very important. As regards administrative reform and savings, I would like to say: Yeah, that's important, that's right! That's what we're going to have to do. However, I also ask that, when we talk about savings and efficiency, we must give the staff the appropriate technology in order to ensure that the appropriate efficiency of the administrative processes is given. It is undisputed that this budget – and this has already been said a few times today – is a crisis budget if one can call it that. It exhibits declining tax revenue and higher costs for the fight against crisis. It will be immediately – and this is very, very important – and not only when the right figures are there, investment in social security and in the fight against unemployment. That's the most important thing. We must not wait until we have established figures on the table, because people now need security and support. Now also a word on the economic packages. The money for the economic packages is used properly, because although these measures cannot prevent the recession, they reduce very much – and that is important! – the economic downturn and also the rise in unemployment compared to other EU countries. Ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the deficit in the crisis is all right. Everything else would be counterproductive in times like this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92077	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92100	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Now we have discussed the budget in detail for four days, the opposition has listened attentively, patiently listened, but, Mr Lugar, we can't believe that no proposals and ideas have come from the opposition that we could have implemented. That's where the opposition has to pack itself on its own. [[Abg. Bucher: We have tabled motions for resolutions!]] Because the speaking time is now very short, I would like to take refuge in a quote by Friedrich Schiller, probably all known: Now let's say, The words are changed enough, now let's put action! The Austrians expect this from us. We will do this once again, as we always see it as a duty of the government. And we cordially invite the opposition to support us – for the benefit of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92135	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92156	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! A few comments on the supervision of the financial market, which Mr Hagenhofer has already referred to. I believe it is important that we ensure for the future that financial market surveillance does not only in Europe, but also in Austria, what it cannot at present. We all know that the Transparency Directive provides an Enforcement agency, a so-called balance sheet police. We have not yet implemented this in Austria, by the way, as the only country in Europe. This is intended to ensure that the accounting rules are complied with to ensure that financial market supervision checks, through direct inspection of business books, whether the approaches agree on whether everything is properly presented. For example, if one had done this at the company Meinl, we could have prevented thousands of people in the country from knowing how they could get their damage done well. It is planned to carry out an examination every eight years. I'm sure that's optimal. Second point, which is also important: When we talk about the sustainability of corporate governance in Austria – sustainability is important so that we can also get funding through the tax – then we will certainly have to address the issue of “Stock options”. We know that the salary systems, which are paid for the achievement of certain objectives, are very dangerous to sustainability, because if the operating result does not come, then the financial result will have to be achieved. That is to say, one sells a company's stake and then destroys companies that have significantly higher productive opportunities in the market as a whole. You'll be surprised at it in the country. That means some times: back to the core business! This can also be a description of a state that is dangerous to the capital market place in Austria as a whole. That is why we will also have to look at this. I think the budget is balanced in line with the current situation and therefore very good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92202	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92223	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! An economically difficult time requires special measures, including special measures in the budget. We've got them today. There was really no alternative to this budget, but yet again and again we heard from the opposition parties that it had been far too little invested, for example in thermal rehabilitation and so on. I mean, we have a really good budget. The basis was previously created by tax relief. We know from the past that tax reliefs in particular have a very positive impact on growth and thus on employment. Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, you have found the right form and dosage here. We will be much better off than other European countries because of these measures and the economic packages we are going to face this crisis. Finally, I should also like to thank all the parliamentary staff and the officials in the ministry for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92256	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92278	Mr President. High house! As we have seen in the last few days, this debate and the work of this House have been detrimental to the debate on the double budget from the debate on the Third President of the National Council. We are now approaching the end of this debate, including the end of today's debate. Regardless of the fact that we, the Socialist Group, continue to take the view that a change of law with an option would be the most appropriate solution to respond properly to the comments made by Martin Graf in the “New Free News ” on 21 January. In May 2009, we believe that it is important that there is a signal here from the House, Parliament. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the explanatory statement on this request, the quotations of President Graf are presented in the “New Free Newspaper”, which has already been very critically quoted several times. The explanatory statement also refers to the statement made by the three parliamentary parties on 27 July. In May 2009, the statement was strongly condemned to dissociate “from all the political statements that are appropriate for bringing people of different religious orientation or ethnic backgrounds against one another. ” ==References====External links== In May 2009, three group chairmen, those of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens, signed here in the House, also announced to the public. In the explanatory statement, it is also important to note the permanent case law of the Constitutional Court, according to which the “compromise rejection of National Socialism is a fundamental feature of the resurrected Republic”. ==References== ==References== [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The explanatory statement also states that President Graf has ‘abstained it up to date, to dissociate himself from his statements, which would justify a resignation from his responsible State Office,’ and also to point out that not only representatives of Parliament, but also ‘the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor have found clear words of condemnation of these statements and their incompatibility with his position as third President of the National Council’. I believe that this is a very important motion for a resolution and I would therefore ask Members to support this motion for a resolution. That would be an important signal for the people, for the young people, to clearly take a position here, even in this form of the motion for a resolution which I have tabled.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92354	The application is supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92426	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies Ing. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92448	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With this budget a real step has been taken in difficult times. Since the crisis for the future is not appreciable by anyone, it was to respond to what is known. The government has done this perfectly in the interests of the economy and in the interests of employment. The fact is, however, that in the past the tax burden has increasingly shifted away from the workers. This very fact will have to be the basis for future discussions when it comes to distribution. I think that this is also very important in the interests of social peace in our country. Finally, two comments on the municipalities. They're the biggest public investor. 70 percent of all workers are employed in the relatively crisis-resistant regional micro and small enterprises and are undoubtedly also the heart of the federal revenues. However, the burden of financial compensation, tax reform and also the crisis put this important function of the municipalities at risk. Therefore, I suggest that we find appropriate measures in response. This week we discussed the audit by the Court of Auditors of the Community of 20 000 inhabitants. The reporting has meant that SPÖ would not be for that. I note that the SPÖ stands for the Government Convention, which provides, among other things, for the possibility of the national accounting authorities examining the municipalities and the municipal associations. I am pleased that the Burgenlande Landtag made a request on this subject only yesterday. We have nothing to hide, we see this as support and not as a threat. What we do not want, however, is a further, additional test that will burden the communities' scarce resources. An independent, efficient, effective test that can help us perhaps get even better is welcome at any time.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92488	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92509	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of a long debate, I believe, it is clear that this budget, in its effect, undoubtedly brings exactly the right measures in the economic crisis. There were doubts on the part of the opposition whether the budget was made too early and therefore the figures are not sustainable. I would like to make a few brief comments. First: I believe that the revenue estimate has been very, very well done, and I expressly thank the officials for it. This is, of course, a difficult task. But one thing is clear: We have a good wage trend this year, so the wage tax revenue will be appropriate. We still have a good consumption, which is why the VAT and excise duties will be appropriate. We may have reduced revenue on income taxes, but these were taken into account in the estimate. [[Abg. Dolinschek: We have rising unemployment!]] Our risk exists if the development actually gets significantly worse, with the so-called automatic stabilizers, the expenditure. Only one is written in the main book, especially the BZÖ Members who criticised it: This system ensures in our country that every unemployed person gets his unemployed, every pensioner, each pensioner is safely paid her pension. This is something that the state fulfils its most important task of supporting those who face the most difficult situation even in times of crisis. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, I should also like to say: It was not easy to create this budget, but this task was well done. Two comments, because Mr Deputies answered the question in a bold way: Can we clean up expenditure on our own? – Honest answer: We will have to make every effort on the part of expenditure, but we will not be able to do so, and the reorganisation of the budget will also have to be done on the revenue side. On one thing we can already agree today: No taxes where they are harmful to domestic jobs, where they are harmful to investment! But the areas where we do not raise taxes or too little tax today, areas that are of little use to economic development, will be those in which we will work together on revenue increases. And: Don't worry about the business location! All countries that today bind packages will have to reduce deficits afterwards. The alleged escape from the tax over the border will hardly be possible. That won't be a problem. We will find these measures. Unfortunately, they will also have to lead to certain additional payments in the field of wealth. However, I believe that this contribution is also gladly made by very wealthy people – in Germany there is already such an initiative – because they appreciate living in a country where security fits, which fits education, the social system fits. In this sense, I am looking forward to cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92549	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92570	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! At the end of a budget debate which has been held for a number of days, it is also appropriate to look at the discussions in the rear-view. So let me look back in summary. In times of the greatest crisis that all of us here have ever experienced, it is necessary to address the matter with the necessary seriousness. Let's remember: Debates of the European Parliament There were other speeches, however. I do not wish to mention a party here, and We have infected each other, and perhaps one or the other has made a greater contribution than the other. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there were speeches that were not better kept. Speakers have been provoked, disturbed by exaggerated calls, and the reactions have not been avoided. Is that what we want? I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Do we really want that? – For me, I can answer the question: I don't want that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I don't want that even when elections are in front of the door and maybe a little pointed is formulated. I am already in favour of the dispute, but for the dispute about the better ideas; that means that we should remain objective in the discussions. The only thing, ladies and gentlemen, that we do, is damage our profession and, ultimately, damage ourselves. I would therefore ask you once again: Is that what we want? – The answer must be everyone's own. But now to the budget. High house! I have already said that we are going through the most difficult crisis that those who make politics today have ever experienced. The present and discussed budget, the economic packages already decided, the tax reform in force are approaches to effectively combat the crisis. It is the common struggle of all constructive forces against unemployment, it is the fight for more employment and finally for social peace in our country. It is precisely this social peace that we must not compromise. I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor, Mr Vice-Chancellor and the entire government team for the budget presented. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is what is feasible under the given framework, just as politics as a whole is the art of the feasible. The budget is socially balanced, the budget is a fight against the crisis, and it is, as we have heard several times, without any alternative. I would like to ask everyone to give their approval to this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92631	Next speaker: Mrs Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92652	Mr President. I would like to take this opportunity to put forward a motion for a resolution in a very short space of two minutes on the discussion we had yesterday on culture. It is a support to the film industry: "The Federal Government is invited to further develop the importance of the audiovisual media in line with its cultural and economic importance and to further strengthen the Austrian film industry and thus also to take into account the successes of the Austrian film and film industry. In particular, the Federal Government is asked to stick to the target set by the Government Convention for the gradual increase in the budget of the Austrian Film Institute to €20 million. The Federal Government is also asked to take further measures to promote the young film, to strengthen the programme cinema and to strengthen the film location in Austria, such as the to examine the German Film Fund and submit a catalogue of measures to the National Council.’
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92693	Next speaker: Federal Minister for Finance, Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92715	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I do not want to be too detailed after a very, very intense debate on this double budget and also on the financial perspective by 2013. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] We started with a budget hearing, and after the budget speech there were very extensive discussions in the committees. You know that with this double budget we have taken up the fight against the crisis so that we set the right priorities to bring Austria out of this crisis. It is a double budget, which has been strongly negotiated with colleagues in the government and which lays the basis for giving the right financial answers for the future beyond this crisis. I would like to thank you from this point of view for a very constructive debate here in the House, which was characterized by a lot of detailed and financial knowledge. I would like to thank my two State Secretarys Andreas Schieder and Reinhold Lopatka, who have negotiated very closely with me in the preparation of the budget negotiations. I would also like to thank the officials of my department, who are here today, for their detailed work. It was a big route to launch this double budget and for the first time the financial perspective until 2013. Thank you very much for this preparation and also for the discussion here in the House!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92754	I would add that the proposal tabled by Mr Fuhrmann has been properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92818	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92840	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Klubobmann Cap has made another request from the government parties, a Cap/Cape request, in which you want, as it were, to lead the debate over the last few days to a conclusion. I would like to clarify the position of the Greens on this request once again. Although this request refers relatively in detail to the statements made by the Third President of the National Council Martin Graf, as far as the specific points of application are concerned, both government parties are in general moving. These are measures in the field of prevention, investigation and law enforcement, in order to give a more sustainable focus to developments in political extremism. This is absolutely supportive, and we will support it. The second point to take initiatives in the context of public relations and youth policy to strengthen tolerance and respect for religions and to reject extremism and anti-Semitism is also worthy of support. We will therefore also support this request. However – and this is the key question that has been raised in recent days – you have excluded the question of the assessment of Martin Graf's comments and the consequences they must have. [[Call at the FPÖ: What does this have to do with the budget?]] You have also excluded these questions in the sense that you are now actually opening up to the ÖVP the possibility of closing these Causa in any form today without having to take a clear position on the question of withdrawal. [[Abg. Head: Stand in there!]] In the text of the application there is no single word in the question of count and resignation. Supportworthy measures... [[Abg. Amon: Have you read it?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I read him, of course. The key question – and you can't move around today in any way – will have to answer you: in a natural vote, in which it is a matter of asking for the resignation of the President-in-Office of the Council to do so and to confess with your vote. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't understand why this is so hard. Especially in the Federal Chancellor – who has still said today towards the People's Party that she would not perceive the higher responsibility not only to respond but also to draw consequences from it – I do not understand why it is then not possible to make a clear commitment to evaluate something that is no different from that: that these statements require a single consequence, namely the resignation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will therefore support this request, but we will not spare you the decision to deliver a clear opinion on these comments today, namely, every Member of the SPÖ and the ÖVP! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92918	Mr Klubobmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's What time can I set? How much time do you want, Mr. Klubobmann? [[Abg. Street: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 11 minutes!]] All the time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e92955	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would very much like to refer to this and refer to the fact that Mr Klubobmann Cap has now tabled a request here together with colleagues, in which you unfortunately also act and act very, very unilaterally, on the part of God again. Unfortunately, it is God's normality that we must experience again and again. They do not take note that there is a cause and an effect in this whole matter. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Cap, you do not take note that it cannot be understood that a President Dr. Martin Graf, but also we liberals have been defamed and insulted for years in this country by people, but also political competitors who speak in political terms, as “Nazis” is defamed and insulted, as “Kellernazis” is defamated and insulted, are compared with Goebbels, to Eichmann, as was the case with Minister Platter. It's enough! We do not want to offer this to democracy, Mr Klubobmann. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's someday reached the point, since you should ask your way of dealing with the topic seriously and honestly once. [[Abg. May. Korun:... hates it!]] It cannot be assumed that a President Count, but also the Freedom Party, for many years must experience such insults and that a President of the National Council Prammer was not prepared to take a position here, but also acted party-politically, and Martin Graf as President did not protect and did not defend this insult! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I quote: A ‘ troupe of right - right extremities ’ and “neonazis, ” these are the words that have fallen! A count was also remembered with these words, in words where he was insulted, insinuating him to be anti-Semitic, where it was claimed that things were found to be false, namely that he should also have invited those who deny the Holocaust, while things were claimed that the Freedom Party should be denied democratic legitimacy. Compare with the NSDAP – these are monsterities! That's when I expect everyone to be sincere democrats, he says: So you can't jump around with a free democratic party! Such a thing is dangerous to democracy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then go here and say that's obviously all allowed. There's no word in this republic: The Federal Chancellor is hiding away, and the President of the Federal Republic is hiding. There is no word of indignation, there is no word of clarification that such a thing in this country is unacceptable, so of course it also stimulates hatred and violence. It can't be that the one who has been permanently confronted with such horrors, where a person – personally and politically motivated – makes such statements publicly, not verbally speaking. We're allowed to sit! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] Because he's president?- Oh, my God! Did he like everything as president?- Oh, my God! – No, it can’t be! He's a National Council President, but he's also a human being! And yes, he is also a political part of a party and has the right to sit down verbally, like any other free citizen and human being in that country! Keywords freedom of expression. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If someone speaks in a party political way, this is a party political report, which must also be dealt with in a party political way and thus assessed. You can't do what you do, namely go here and say it's anti-Semitic, because Dr. Martin Graf didn't like these insults and put himself on the job. This cannot be done, please make it clear and clear. Martin Graf has also made it clear and clear that he has acted as I have – that since October 2008 he has been ready to live the dialogue, in all the abuses that have happened since 2005 to offer the dialogue to extend his hand. It's documented in writing! – But that was rejected, further insults were the result. Then go here and act as you act party-politically today and campaign against Dr. Graf and the Freedom Party. That is not the right way for democratic development in this country! I say quite openly: Dr. Martin Graf has publicly held and called for disarmament of words. He continues to seek dialogue and continues to stretch his hand, just as I do. He also says: It would be good if both sides were to sit together, express themselves and clear misunderstandings. Only that must be based on reciprocity, that is what it is all about! It can't be that someone in this country can put all the insults in the room and a president must let that happen! [[New call of the abg. May. Korun.]] Whether this is the first, the second or the third president, is by the way. Nor can it be that a vice chancellor must be insulted as “austrofascist”, as a Mr. Peter Pilz did today! That too can't be! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Disarmament of words is required – this must be the case at all levels and sides! This also means dealing honestly with – and not with party-political motivation, as it is now being raised! I am therefore quite aware that I am very disappointed that this will not be done. We are looking for the conversation, the dialogue with all religious communities and we have great respect for all religious communities! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] There are many members of the Israeli Cultural Community who are not at all enthusiastic about the media-explained insults that the President Muzicant has made party-politically motivated. Many members of the Israeli Cultural Community, who are also personally in contact with me, have no pleasure in these statements and also feel that Mr. Muzicant would have to take back these statements. That would also be the right way: that both sit together, talk openly about it, and openly say that neither the abuses made by Mr. Muzicant several times, x-fold in different directions – towards the Count and to the Freedom Party – are not acceptable and therefore can also be reduced in content with regrets; as well as the reaction that Dr. Martin Graf then put no question. That's supposed to be the honest procedure. But everything else you do today is beat political change on a totally dishonest basis. That's why I don't leave that in the room either!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e93080	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e93102	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a little wonder, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, how you want to do it – or how you can do it – to present a situation completely differently in your statements, a situation where, across the Republic, it is a very clear accusation to the address of this gentleman, the President of the National Council, to have spoken out anti-Semitic! [[Abg. And you're the criminal instance?- Oh, my God!]] On this allegation, echoed across by all the comments in this Republic that have been written in these last days, stand here and say: We liberals are for all religious communities, we appreciate and respect all religious communities! Faith You really think anyone in this republic forgets what you're putting on the streets all the time? [[Abg. Strache: You are the Tomb of Democracy!]] Orient, no, Occident instead, no, no... [[Intervocational calls]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle.]] “Abendland in Christian hand”, Islam instead of daham, no, “Daham instead of Islam”. [[Ironic Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Strache: That was the joyous promiseant!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Do you really believe, Mr Strache, that with a saying that you claim that the FPÖ is open to all religious communities, in this Republic and in these parties you can still find a say?- Oh, my God! But let us go to the heart of the whole – and I am not referring to the request that SPÖ and ÖVP have made here, but to what Mr Strache has now said! The core of the matter that we have been discussing for days is a statement by Mr Graf, in which – unfortunately also in the responses from our side, no matter which side – the essential has not yet been stated clearly enough. There is a picture from the past – we know – with which anti-Semitic action is performed and formulated; it is a picture of the Jews, mostly of the “money Jew”, who acts in the background and in front of himself the troops that raise the Bolshevik troops on the street to end democracy. This is the anti-Semitic image of the time of National Socialism! – Mr. Strache, are you still in your senses?- Oh, my God! [[A major contradiction with the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: What you're doing is anti-Semitism, it's inconceivable!]] I have now explained how anti-Semitism expresses itself. I'll tell you one thing: Take this contribution by Mr Graf to hand! In this you will find a picture: the Jew in the fine clothes that is in the background and brings - in this case - anarchist troops to the streets for the destruction of democracy. This is pure anti-Semitism, there is nothing to doubt at all, Mr Graf! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[A major contradiction with the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: What do you have for an abstract imagination?- Oh, my God!]] I'll tell you something. We can discuss a lot, we can discuss the dialogue – and I am always in favour of dialogue – but: Everyone in this Republic could know where Mr. Graf came from from from the "Olympia" Burschenschaft, in which a Mr. Michael Müller appeared four or five years ago, who made the following songs: [[Abg. Kickl: So what?! Where did you come from?- Oh, my God!]] “With six million Jews, the fun starts first ( )”, and a second song, from that I quote you, Mr. Strache, not the whole text, but I could: Paolo Pinkelstein, this god damn... point, point, point. [[A major contradiction with the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How did you get the text?]] These are texts that were ordered by Mr. Graf's staff during commotion shipment. These are texts that someone “does best” to refer to the "Olympia" citizenship. [[Abg. Strache: Have you checked the court proceedings? You know that was condemned, “The Standard” has had to withdraw this!]] And then representatives of the FPÖ and the Count stand up and say: We stand on the "Olympia" side! That's what we've heard in recent weeks, months and years. This is the spirit or spirit of the "Olympia", from which you come and from which you do not want to distance yourself! [[A major contradiction with the FPÖ.]] We are not talking here about the positions of the FPÖ as a whole, Mr Graf, we are now talking about your attitudes. As President of the National Council, unfortunately you are still unbearable because of these attitudes, because of the open-minded anti-Semitism, Mr Graf. [[Abg. Unheard of! It's a cleaner, it's a big cleaner!]] I am afraid, Mr Graf, that you will still need too long to understand that you are not desirable in this Republic as President of the National Council; and I hope, ladies and gentlemen of the other parties, especially the EIA, that you soon understand that this gentleman as President of the National Council is indeed unbearable. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In the protection of immunity you say that! Harmful!]] We don’t need a burger in which songs about “Paul Pinkelstein” are given for the best! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Rudas.]] We do not need a president of the National Council who stands for this citizenship! We do not need anti-Semitism, which is ‘ given to the best ’ by representatives of this Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e93357	Next speaker: Clubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e93378	I would like to refer to Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig-Piesczek's comments and to the following: I believe that it cannot be the task of a motion for a resolution to the Federal Government to demand the resignation of the Third President of the National Council. – This is our case, this is Parliament’s case here once there is a two-thirds majority in favour of an amendment to the law; and it is Parliament’s concern that this election has a two-thirds majority. I would like to say this clearly here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what is the task of a motion for a resolution to the Federal Government is to include the catalogue of measures that we have outlined here and which you have had in your motion for a resolution from the Greens. However, our motion for a resolution is the more advanced and, as I believe, the more substantial. - That's what I'm talking about. To the other, I would like to say something to Mr Klubobmann Strache: Mr. Klubobmann Strache, you first advertised: “No EU accession to Turkey” – and we discussed this in the Presidency yesterday – and then you took Israel from a certain point of view. [[Abg. Strache: Yes, because the Mr. Lieberman gave an interview, on 26 May. April!]] – Listening It's all right! . You have put this with the argument that there are statements of words in Israel, where you think about the accession of Israel to the European Union. To this end: We can also find such words in Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia... – But [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, we are against it too!]] In addition to the No to Turkey's accession, they have also advertised a No to Israel's accession. You already have to be blamed for the fact that, if there is no formal application from Israel for accession to the European Union, there are similar discussions in other Mediterranean countries or even in other countries, many are very likely to ask why you are referring Israel to this listing. [[Abg. Street: Because the Israeli Foreign Minister has declared this!]] Do you know what's wrong? – Have been yesterday You said at least five times in your speech: Anti-Semitism has no place in the FPÖ! And I have always told you in principle: I believe what you say at the presidential table. But this listing simply allows this accusation! Don't be angry with me, I'll repeat it again today because it comes out of logic. Next point: If you say, Disarmament of words!, that is to say, if you actually find clear words, because this formulation is too little. Martin Graf wrote: “The extended arm of Mr. Muzicant is the violent left mob on the streets.” – No! [[Abg. Strache: So if you are opposed to a non-European country like Israel joining the EU, is it an anti-Semit?- Oh, my God!]] What does “violent left mob ” mean? This can mean: Disc impact, body injury, which can mean that musician is in the background, coordinated or influenced by that, he is the spiritual pioneer; so everything can be called it. [[New calls to the liberals.]] That is why this sentence is not permitted! It's not allowed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, with representatives of the ÖVP and with the Greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In the face of all contradictions and in all the controversial debate, which can and must not, of course, be conducted with Mr Muzicant, one must say: That's not it! That's not a discussion! As long as you, Mr Graf, have not found any clear words to that effect, no one here will really take away the demand for disarmament of the words. [[Abg. Kickl: And how do you hold a debate, Mr Cap?! And then you want me to believe you?- Oh, my God!]] I quote Count: "With his insults, the President of the Israeli Cultural Community creates a climate of political brutality, which is why many citizens are already wondering if he should not be called a migrant father of antifascist left terrorism." That is, you put the President of the Israeli Cultural Community in the area of terrorists! We all know the terrorism debate that is taking place. This can then go down to fire attacks or something else. That's why I'm telling you: Such a formulation is also not tolerable! It's not tolerable! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] It is also impossible to tolerate the wording that Martin Graf is a victim and must sit down verbally. – Mr Martin Graf is well-known and therefore very well aware of the legal nature of the matter when it is necessary; Mr Martin Graf is also a very eloquent Member and therefore knows very well how to take political action. [[Abg. That's what you want to forbid!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Thank God there is the division of power!]] Putting yourself politically to the task, however, does not mean that this would include the accusation of criminal conduct – I said that already on the first day of the budget debate – and this does not include all these considerations. It is not acceptable if you say that emergency law includes this type of formulation! [[Abg. Strache: This is the same level!]] Mr Klubobmann Strache, that's not all right, that's why You hear this criticism from us again and again! Your statement on disarmament of words is only credible if you have found clear words about the statements that Mr Martin Graf has expressed and formulated and that have led to the fact that there is here in the house the demand for his resignation and after his election!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e93570	Mr Vilimsky has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e93591	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. What would happen? They say that if a member of this House made statements that were felt by very well-known members of the Israeli Cultural Community as the Nazi Parole “Do not buy with Jews!” – I suppose that this would have to trigger an honest outrage with you, even a much more “honorous” – under quotations – than what you are now staging. So it happened, ladies and gentlemen, in 2002. And it was about the green leader Lunacek at an event that meant that the trade agreement with Israel would be announced if the designations of origin of the goods from Israel did not clarify that... This formulation has not rightly reminded some prominent members of the Israeli Cultus Church of the Nazi Parole “Do not buy with Jews!” [[Calls to the Greens.]] [[Abg. That's last-class!]] But that's not enough. Her Wiener green councillor Jerusalem has also occurred at events where it was called: “In order to justify Israel’s policy towards the Palestinians, the ‘Holocaust’ is constantly warmed up in the West (...) and the persecution of the Jews over 50 years ago is conjured and built up.” It is quite right that Mr. Professor Van der Bellen in 2002 states that some parts of his party have a highly inconspicuous relationship with the State of Israel and it is very much anti-Semitism in the ranks of the Greens. [[Calls to the Greens.]] And you come out of the greens and you act with a body with the inscription: “Your shame is called Martin Graf.” – That, ladies and gentlemen, what you are fabricating in dishonesty is really not going on any more! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] You, Mr Cap, claim that it is unusual for high-level institutions of the state to use terms that are unusual for the carriers of the highest functions, but to measure with many degrees, because the German Chancellor, who, according to the Protocolal Order, is above the Second President of the National Council, is obviously very likely to call our clubman and party chairman “hasspreacher”! But if our Martin Graf sets up a verbal emergency action that has a months-long history, you don't think that should be the case at once! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They complain here and request that Austria's reputation be saved or restored abroad. – Do you know what that reminds me of? – This reminds me of the time of ‘champagnization’, of the time of the “ Sanctions”, where your top representatives traveled across Europe to make moods against Austria and against the then Federal Government. [[towards SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's the same thing you're going to do now! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Mr Klubobmann Cap, very interesting is also how you conspired the basic antifascist consensus yesterday. I mean, it's all right when it comes to any totalitarian ideologies – but as a non-jurisdiction, I'm very much trying to track him, what that really is. ==References====External links== I did not find that until 1983, in January 1955, all the documents of all politicians, officials and decision-makers were documented. In 1983, I first find the expression “antifascist fundamental consensus”, expressly by socialist youth. This term is a martial terminology of the SED state – and not anything that you interpret unilaterally as “Declaration of Independence”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This House is supposed to have a basic consensus where everyone admits to democracy, the rule of law, the rejection of totalitarianism – but not something that comes from your left ideological shift box! This is unfair if you conjure this up in an honest debate. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] What you're doing here is a mean campaign, a nesting dirt abroad. Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e93707	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e93728	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a shameful discussion and debate. [[General condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there must be no doubt in this House that this House is closed to every extreme – whether from left or right – against any extreme. [[Complementary with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] There must be no debate in this House about the indivisible dignity of man, ladies and gentlemen. [[General condolences.]] It is the responsibility of this House of the Republic, the reputation of the Republic and no one else. Therefore, Mr Strache, if you seriously believe what you are saying here, there is a very simple solution: Mr Graf goes out of here, apologises for this statement and withdraws it. It's easy. And just as clear it would be that the Greens are going out here and apologizing for the call of Peter Pilz towards Austrofascism at Vice-Kanzler Pröll. That would be a contribution. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen, for the respect of the Republic that is being started here to take an extreme against the other. It is irresponsible for a false statement against another false statement, ladies and gentlemen. This must not be a school in this Republic! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and BZÖ.]] I expect you to do that. If you're man enough and what Strache said is really serious, then go out, apologise, withdraw this with the expression of regret. And that's exactly the same thing I expect from fungus. That would be a contribution to democratic culture in this country, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e93804	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. The Group's remaining speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e93826	First of all, Mr Vilimsky. It's already a strong piece. You know, the one thing is the ongoing conflicts between the Palestinians and the Israelis, and everyone who has been concerned with the matter knows that this is a political minefield. If you scrutinize Israeli politics, you will immediately get the accusation of anti-Semitism from one person or another and the same reverse. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In the specific case you quoted, it was about exports from the territories occupied by Israel, which were sold as Israeli products. This is not correct, and the European Parliament has also expressed itself in this way at the time. - That's all. This is quite different from what Mr Martin Graf has said. Martin Graf has led an ad-personam attack, an ad-personam attack on Mr. Muzicant, in an inaccurate way. [[Abg. Strache: Not against a religious community, but against a person!]] That's the difference. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A personal attack in an inaccurate way. These are all the words of the musician that he's a violent man: He supports the “left mob who is violent on the street”, the “Zie Mumbaier of terrorism”. He supports the anarchist bands and so on. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] This is an involuntary, infamy attack on a gentleman who is by chance also President of the Israeli Cultural Community. I wonder if the ÖVP would look at this with so much peace if it were one of them who would be attacked in the way. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] That's what I'm really asking myself. We're not doing anything! We accept that a third President represents all of us with such statements! [[Unrest in the hall.]] This Mr Martin Graf represents the entire Parliament as a third president. That's what you can offer? That's where an excuse is supposed to be? – He has so far refused to apologize. He won't do it in the future either. It was a soft removal in the APA. It's ridiculous to call such an excuse!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e93897	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. Your group's remaining speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e93919	Mr President. High house! I have a very simple question: Does the Austrian public believe that the protocol number four of this country – I am really speaking to you personally now – without a fact-of-fact substrate – if a fact-of-fact substrate is there, please come out with it – 64 years after the end of World War II, the president of the cultus community is aware of what happened 64, 65 years ago and the years before, can say the following - without a fact-substrate?! –: Longer arm, but I never have – please, then get out with it! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Ewald, you already said a lot of trouble!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The justification, Mr Molterer, is not: I apologise for that, I do not have a fact-finding substrate, I submitted to the president of the Cultus community that he is a patriot of terrorism. I can't show a fact-of-fact substrate. I apologize. No, he says: You said something worse, though he didn't know what. It is therefore justified if the protocol number four of this country without a faction makes the president of the Cultusgemeinschaft simple and simply en passant without a salary as a terrorist 64 years after the end of the war. That's the problem. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strache and Mr Mag. Stefan.]] – It has nothing to do with hypocrisy. This is so instinctless, for the number four of this country unbearable instinctless and by the way stupid, simple and simply stupid. [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] If you have a fact-finding substrate that proves that Mr. Dr. Muzicant is under a ceiling with the left-wing terrorism, please get out here and put it on the table! If you don't have one, please do what Mr. Molterer asked you to do, and apologize. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Things are so simple.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e93986	All political groups have taken full advantage of the total speaking time. The debate is closed. May I ask for a sign from those responsible for the club. Is it time to study the Croquis for 10 minutes, or do we need 15 minutes? [[The clubmen signal their consent to 10 minutes.]] Then I'll interrupt the session. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e94031	I ask you to take the seats. We now arrive at the votes on the Federal Financial Framework Act and the Federal Financial Laws 2009 and 2010, which I will take separately. First of all, Mr Ing. ==References== In May 2009, the draft law on federal financial law 2010 introduced oral amendments, including investments. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of referring the proposed legislation to the Budget Committee again for a sign. – The request is rejected. We come to the vote on the draft federal law, which adopts the Federal Financial Framework Act 2009 to 2012 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2010 to 2013, in 110 of the Supplements. Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The vote on the amendment tabled by Dr Fichtenbauer, colleagues on Article 1(1) and (2), and Article 2(1) and (2), including the changes in the amount of the amounts resulting from the said amendments, will be taken at the vote. Whoever joins this amendment, I am looking for a sign. – The application is rejected. We shall vote on these parts of the draft as amended by the Government's proposal, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I ask for an acceptable sign. The request was accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the draft government proposal, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I would ask you to give me an important sign. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you are also in third reading for this draft law, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The draft law is also adopted at third reading. Vote on the draft Bundesfinanzgesetz 2009 in 111 of the Supplements. The following additional or amendments and requests for separate and named votes are available: Amendment tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer, fellow Members, and request for a vote on this, several supplementary or amendments tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Co-workers, four amendments tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues, Two amendments tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr Ing. Lugar, Mag. Kogler, colleagues and a request for a separate vote by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the bill in the order of Appendices I to IV, taken into account by the supplementary or amendment proposals mentioned above and the request for separate vote, in the order of Appendices I to IV, and finally on the text of the Bundesfinanzgesetz. Following the third reading in the order of submission, I will have the motions for resolutions submitted to the draft Federal Financial Act 2009, taking into account the current request, vote for a nominal vote. [[Call the SPÖ towards the visitor gallery, where someone sends himself to the plenary.]] Of course, I couldn't see that because I looked into the documents. Mr President, we have agreed that no photograph is taken in the ranks of Members, in order to preserve the confidentiality of the papers in question. Hold on to it, please! I repeat the last paragraph: Following the third reading in the order of submission, I will have the motions for resolutions submitted to the draft Federal Financial Act 2009, taking into account the current request, vote for a nominal vote. Appendix I – Federal estimates 2009: First of all, we are voting on the supplementary request of Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Krainer, Mr President, concerning the insertion of new estimates into the Federal Chancellor's Office. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give a sign. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Krainer, on the title of expenditure and revenue 400 and on the designation of the proposal 1/20157 of the Federal proposal. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a positive sign. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. The request was adopted unanimously. Deputies Krainer, Jakob Auer, Dr. Fichtenbauer, Ing. Lugar and Mag. Kogler has tabled a joint amendment which refers to the division 02 – federal legislation. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who advocate a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled a further amendment to subheading 02 – Bun- the legislation relates to benefits relating to restitution questions. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. MEPs have also tabled an amendment to Division 03 – Constitutional Court, tabled by Jakob Auer, Krainer, Members of Parliament. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – That is unanimously decided. We are now coming to a separate vote on those parts of the 2009 federal proposal concerning sub-division 04 – Administrative Court in the version of the government template. I would ask those Members of the House who give their agreement to these parts to give a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. In addition, MEPs have tabled an amendment to subheading 5 – People's Procuratorate, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Krainer and Mr Colleagues. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this in order to have a corresponding sign. – This has been adopted unanimously. A amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, fellow Members was also tabled to subheading 6 – the Court of Auditors. Whoever joins this amendment, I ask for a sign. – This too is unanimously decided. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on the remaining parts of the 2009 Federal Estimate on the following sub-divisions: UG 01 – Presidencieskanzlei, UG 02 – Federal Law, UG 03 – Constitutional Court, UG 05 – Volksanwaltschaft, UG 06 – Court of Auditors, all in the version of the government template. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject, if I may. – This is accepted in a multi-vocal way. In addition, MEPs Krainer, Jakob Auer, and colleagues have tabled an amendment on division 10 – Federal Chancellery. Whoever joins it, I ask for an acceptable sign. The request was accepted. Deputies Dr Fichtenbauer, colleagues and colleagues have tabled an amendment relating to sub-division 14 – Military Affairs and Sport, including the change in the amount of funds contained in Appendices I, Ia, Ib and Ic as a result of the said amendments. On this point, Deputies Dr. Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. As this request is sufficiently supported, this vote should also be carried out by name. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, you know the procedure. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this amendment tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer, ladies and gentlemen, 'Yes', these are the grey, relations'. wise who is days, “No ” voicepad, these are the pink ones to throw into the urn. I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Hagenhofer, to start with the name call, which is replaced by Mrs Franz.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e94316	The vote will end. I may ask that the staff of the House now take the vote under the supervision of the scribes. I'm interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e94351	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 178; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 53, No votes: 125. The amendment tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer, colleagues and others, is therefore rejected. You are aware that the names of the Members will be included in the Stenographic Protocol, stating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Grain, Count, Grosz Gerald; Hagen, Haider, Haimbuchner, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Königshofer, Kunasek, Kurzmann; Lausch, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Petzner; Rosary; Scheibner, Schenk, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Strache; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Weinzinger Lutz, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Winter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Eßl; Faul, Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Grünewald; Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Korun, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lightenecker, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela, Lunacek; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Moser, Muchitsch, Musiol, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ollinger; Pack, Pendl, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schatz, Schittenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Schwentner, Silhavy, Singer, Sonnberger, Spindelberger, Duster Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Stummful; Tamandl; Van der Bellen; Walser, Weninger Hannes, Windbüchler-Souschill, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Wurm; Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e94546	We are now voting on these parts of the federal proposal in the version of the government proposal. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. The request was accepted. Members of Parliament Krainer, Jakob Auer, and colleagues have tabled an amendment relating to sub-division 14 – military affairs and sports and sports promotion. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a positive sign. The request was accepted. In addition, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Krainer, and others have tabled an amendment on subdivision 15 – financial management. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. The request was accepted. We come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues on division 24 – Health. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for an appropriate sign. The request was accepted. In addition, MEPs Krainer, Jakob Auer, and colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning subheading 30 – Education. I would ask those Members of the House who advocate a sign. The request was accepted. The Members of Parliament, Jakob Auer, Krainer, colleagues and others have also tabled an amendment on sub-division 42 – agriculture, forestry and water management. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. The request was accepted. Finally, I should like to vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President, concerning division 58 – financing, exchange of currencies. If you're for that, I'll ask for a sign. The request was accepted. I now leave the remaining parts of Annex I to the 2009 budget, which have not yet been voted on, including overall summaries (Annexes Ia to Ic), as amended by the Government template, taking into account the newly adopted supplementary or amendment proposals by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Auer, Mr President, and others. Colleagues and the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Dr Fichtenbauer, Mr Ing. Lugar, Mag. Vote Kogler. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent here to a sign. The request was accepted. Vote on Annex II Staff Offices - Gross representation as amended by the Government template. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of confirmation. The request was accepted. We also reach the vote on Appendix III financing, exchange of currencies – gross representation. To this end, MEPs have tabled an amendment to Jakob Auer, Krainer, colleagues. Since only one request was made, I shall immediately vote on Appendix III to the Federal Finance Act, as amended by the Government's proposal, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, colleagues. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on Annex IV to the Staff Plan as amended by the Government template. Hiezu have representatives of Krainer, Jakob Auer, Dr. Fichtenbauer, Ing. Lugar and Mag. Kogler submitted an amendment concerning subheading 02 – Parliamentary Directorate. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. The request was accepted. We shall immediately vote on the remaining parts of Annex IV to the Federal Finance Act 2009 as amended by the Government template. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This request has also been accepted. We come to the vote on the text of the Federal Finance Act 2009. To this end, MEPs have tabled an amendment to Jakob Auer, Krainer, colleagues. Since only one request was made, I shall immediately vote on the text of the Federal Finance Act and on the title and receipt in the version of the Government template, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. The request was accepted. This concludes the second reading on the Bundesfinanzgesetz 2009 together with investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those Members who are also at third reading for this draft law to have a sign of approval. - That's accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. This adopted the budget for the 2009 calendar year. As announced, we are now entering a series of votes on the resolutions tabled to the Federal Finance Act 2009. The vote will take place in the order in which the request is submitted, taking into account the name of the vote. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled during the debate on the Supreme institutions. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Sanger, ladies and gentlemen, on the extension of the public prosecutor's control rights. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – The request is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, on the funds to promote non-commercial and commercial private broadcasting. I ask for a sign if I agree. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled during the debate on European and international affairs. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hübner, ladies and gentlemen, on savings measures in the field of foreign policy. Whoever joins the application, I ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. The vote will now be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scheibner, colleagues, on the prevention of the closure of the Austrian Embassy in Maskat (Oman). Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – The request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kurzmann, colleagues, on the immediate termination of Turkey-EU accession negotiations for financial and other reasons. Jene Ladies and gentlemen of the House, who are voting in favour of this, I am looking for a sign. – The request is rejected. Deputies Mag. Widmann, colleagues and others have tabled a resolution on border nuclear waste storage in the Czech Republic. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – The request is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by the honourable Member. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on the immediate termination of EU accession negotiations with Turkey. There has been a call for vote on this. That's why I'm doing this. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on the immediate termination of EU accession negotiations with Turkey vote in favour of the 'Yes' vote, these are the grey, those who vote against, 'No' vote, these are the pink ones. – I ask you to make the urn available. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Marianne Hagenhofer, to begin with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e94873	The vote will thus end. I would ask the staff to carry out the vote, under the supervision of the authors. I'm interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e94911	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 177, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 53, No votes: 124. The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on the immediate termination of EU accession negotiations with Turkey are therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Grain, Count, Grosz Gerald; Hagen, Haider, Haimbuchner, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Königshofer, Kunasek, Kurzmann; Lausch, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Petzner; Rosary; Scheibner, Schenk, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Strache; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Weinzinger Lutz, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Winter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donnerbauer Heribert; Eßl; Faul, Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Grünewald; Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Korun, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lightenecker, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela, Lunacek; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Moser, Muchitsch, Musiol, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ollinger; Pack, Pendl, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schatz, Schittenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Schwentner, Silhavy, Singer, Sonnberger, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Van der Bellen; Walser, Weninger Hannes, Windbüchler-Souschill, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Wurm; Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e95106	We shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, on the stage plan for increasing EZA funds. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled during the debate on national defence and sport. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Dr Pilz, colleagues, on the termination of the German army's assistance. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Karlsböck, ladies and gentlemen, on the increase in the anti-doping budget. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who speak for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. A motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues are concerned with the federal sport promotion concept. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues, on the possibility of suspending the disbursement of funding under the Federal Sports Promotion Act. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is the minority. Rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kunasek, colleagues, on the extension of the mobility of the staff of the Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport as part of the transformation process on the ÖBH 2010 target structure. ==References== I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members List, colleagues and colleagues on the establishment of the legal basis for the use of members of the Military Steps & Military Police Command on border control and on property protection. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now come to the vote on those motions for resolutions tabled during the debate on economic, family and youth. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen on tax recovery. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is the minority. Rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the implementation of the government programme in the double budget 2009/2010 – extension of care periods in childcare facilities. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the implementation of the government programme in the double budget 2009/2010 – extending childcare for under 3-year-olds. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who speak for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. A resolution tabled by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the implementation of the government programme in the double budget 2009/2010 – income-dependent childcare allowance and father participation. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the reform of the family compensation fund. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who speak for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Themessl, colleagues and colleagues on the greening of the truck tax. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. A motion for a resolution by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues, concerns the annual valorization of family benefits. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the abolition of the limit on child care. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who speak for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues, on the reform of the family compensation fund. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled during the debate on science and research. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Karlsböck, ladies and gentlemen, which is not an exit from CERN. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Karlsböck, colleagues on the assessment of UG-Novelle. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windholz, colleagues on the new construction of the Department of Justice in Vienna. I am looking for a positive sign for those members of the House who speak for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled during the debate on health. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Karlsböck, colleagues on the abolition of self-preservation. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is the minority. Rejected. A motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Karlsböck, ladies and gentlemen, concerns sufficient budgetary provisions for pig flu. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled during the debate on employment, social protection and consumer protection. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, colleagues, on measures to promote apprenticeship training. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are committed to this. – This is the minority. Rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the creation of a minimum level of security based on needs. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, ladies and gentlemen, on the review of the wide range of quality marks and a reduction in quality marks that are manageable for consumers. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are committed to this. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on those motions for resolutions tabled during the debate on education, art and culture. We shall first vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Inlands, colleagues and colleagues in the field of music education in Austria. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are committed to this. – This is the minority. Rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the training of kindergarten teachers – the establishment of Bachelor's courses for kindergarten education at the educational universities. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. A motion for a resolution by Mrs Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the continuous increase in the film budget. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. On the ground, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the situation of film promotion in Austria. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who speak for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Inlanders, colleagues and colleagues with regard to free access to museums for families leave. I am looking for a positive sign for those members of the House who speak for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on solidarity model follow-up. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. A motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, concerns free redundancies. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled during the debate on transport, innovation and technology. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Mr Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the increase in R & D resources to ensure a 3-percent R & D quota. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who speak for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Mr Widmann, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. A resolution tabled by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the implementation of the government programme in the double budget 2009/2010 – Austria-Ticket. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Moser, ladies and gentlemen, on No to the Gigaliner monster truck with 60 tons and over 25 meters in length. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who speak for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled during the debate on justice. We shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lausch, colleagues, on the need to increase the plan. provide E2a and E2b user groups for executives in the judicial service. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are committed to this. – This is the minority. Rejected. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled during the debate on the internal market. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on security package to combat security emergency. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are committed to this. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues concerning the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior, as provided for in Article 74(l) of the Treaty. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. That is what the honourable Member Mag. Mr Stadler, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of the European People's Party As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members as well as the name 'Yes', which are the grey ballots, or 'No', which are the pink ones. Only those official votes may be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I am asking those Members who support this motion for a reluctance to vote in favour of it, “Yes”, those who vote against, to throw “No” votes in the urn. I now ask the author, Mrs Hagenhofer, to begin with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e95759	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e95793	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 178, 40 ‘Yes’ votes and 138 ‘No’ votes. The request for distrust of the Federal Minister for the Interior of Deputies Mag. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues are therefore rejected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz, Brunner, Bucher; Dolnschek; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grosz, Grünewald; Hagen, Ursula, Huber, jury; Kogler, Korun; Lights, Linder, List, Lugar, Lunacek; Markowitz, Moser, Musiol; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwennner, Spadiut, Stadler, Steinhauser; Tadler; Van der Bellen; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz; Zinggl. With “ The Members voted: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Belakovich-Jenewein, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Deimek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Doppler; Eßl; Faul, Fazekas, Fichtenbauer, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Graschauer, Graf, Grillitsch, Grossmann; Hagenhofer, Haider, Haimbuchner, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Herbert, Höbart, Hofer, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Hübner; Ikrath; Jannach, Jarolim; Kaipel, Kapeller, Karl, Karlsböck, Katzian, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Slickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Königshofer, Koßl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kurzmann, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Mayerhofer, Molterer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer, Neugebauer; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Prinz; Rädler, Rasinger, Riepl, Rosary, Rudas; Sacher, schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Sonnberger, Spindelberger, Stauber, Stefan, Steibell, Steier, Steindl, Strache, Stummvoll; Tamandl, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Weinzinger, Wenninger, Winter, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e95979	We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pilz, colleagues, on the activities of the BAT in the field of "Olympia". Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, tabled a motion for a resolution on measures based on the unbearable statements made by the Third President of the National Council. There has been a call for vote on this. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Member or of the Members and the name 'Yes', which are the grey ballots, or 'No'. The pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues on measures based on the unbearable statements of the 3. Presidents of the National Council vote to cast ‘Yes’ vote, those who vote against ‘No’ vote. I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Hagenhofer, to begin with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e96062	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e96093	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 174, of which “Yes” votes: 21, ‘No’ votes: 153. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the unbearable statements made by the Third President of the National Council, is therefore rejected. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz, Brunner; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Green Forest; Kogler, Korun; Lunacek, lignite, lignite, lignite, lignite, lignite, lunacec; Mayer Elmar, Moser, Musiol; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Honey, Schwentner, Steinhauser; Van der Bellen; Roller, wind-winder-sußill; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Mulder, Belakovich-Jenewein, Binder-Maier, Bucher; Cap, Csörgits; Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Doppler; Eßl; Faul, Fazekas, Fichtenbauer, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grazurdauer, Graf, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Grosz; Hagen, Hagenhofer, Haider, Haimbuchner, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Haubner Ursula, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Herbert, Höbart, Hofer, Höfinger, Höller, Hörler, Hörl, Hornek, Huber, Hübner; Ikrath; Jannach, Jarolim, jury; Kaipel, Kapeller, Karl, Karlsböck, Katzian, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Slickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Königshofer, Koßl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kurzmann, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Linder, Lipitsch, List, Lohfeyer, Lueger, Lugar; Maier Johann, Markowitz, Matznetter, Mayer Peter, Mayerhofer, Molterer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer, Neugebauer; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Petzner, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Prinz; Rädler, Rasinger, Riepl, Rosary, Rudas; Sacher, Scheibner, Schenk, Schittenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Sonnberger, Spadiut, Spindelberger, Stadler, Stauber, Stefan, Steibl, Steier, Steindl, Strache, Stummvoll; Tadler, Tamandl, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Weinzinger, Wenninger, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Winter, Wittmann Peter, Wöginger, Wurm; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e96272	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Rosary, ladies and gentlemen, on savings in the field of asylum and tourism. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who speak for it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Korun, colleagues and colleagues have tabled a motion for a resolution on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior in accordance with Article 74(l) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. Since such a decision is adopted in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to do so. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Hübner, colleagues, on the rejection of the directive laying down minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers in the Member States. There has been a call for vote on this. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies or Deputies, as well as the name 'Yes', which are the grey ballots, or 'No', which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hübner, Mr Hübner, Mr von Wogau, on the rejection of the directive laying down minimum standards for the inclusion of asylum seekers in the Member States. states vote, yes, those who vote against to throw “No ” vote in the urn. I now ask the author, Mrs Hagenhofer, to begin with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e96373	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e96411	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote as follows: Members cast: 175, of which "Yes" votes 53, "No" votes 122. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hübner, colleagues, on the rejection of the directive laying down minimum standards for the admission of asylum seekers in the Member States is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Grain, Count, Grosz Gerald; Hagen, Haider, Haimbuchner, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Königshofer, Kunasek, Kurzmann; Lausch, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Petzner; Rosary; Scheibner, Schenk, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Strache; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Weinzinger Lutz, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Winter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Eßl; Faul, Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Grünewald; Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Korun, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lightenecker, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Moser, Muchitsch, Musiol, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ollinger; Pack, Pendl, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schatz, Schittenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Schwentner, Silhavy, Singer, Sonnberger, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Walser, Weninger Hannes, Windbüchler-Souschill, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Wurm; Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e96600	A motion for a resolution by Mr Gahr, Mr Mag. Worms, colleagues and colleagues are concerned with further measures to improve the foreign and criminal police situation in Innsbruck in connection with the so-called North African scene. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 30.) We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mayerhofer, colleagues and colleagues on better remuneration for executives in basic police training. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who speak for it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Werner Herbert, colleagues on the discharge and improvement of the executive. I'm looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by the honourable Member. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on the rejection of the Directive laying down minimum standards for the admission of asylum seekers into the Member States. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled during the debate on agriculture, forestry, the environment and the water industry and during the debate on finance. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Doppler, ladies and gentlemen, on the maintenance of the milk quota. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Grillitsch, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier, Zanger, Pirklhuber and Huber, colleagues with regard to unique identification of imitations or analogues to cheese. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 31.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Schultes, Bayr, Hofer, Brunner, Ing. Lugar, colleagues on the Czech Republic's search for a suitable location for a high-level radioactive waste disposal facility. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 32.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neubauer, colleagues and colleagues, on the further operation of Austria with regard to Temelín and European nuclear policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on the rapid introduction of an EU-wide speculation tax. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on the creation of a clearing office in the Federal Ministry of Finance for the production of transparency and verifiability of the contributions made by Austria to the European Union and the return to Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on the termination of the SPÖ-ÖVP post-chacher by establishing a constitutional basis for the appointment of an independent member of the European Commission. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, fellow Members, on the short-term payment of income taxes for small and medium-sized enterprises in the course of the economic crisis. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, fellow Members, on the abolition of pension privileges in the Austrian National Bank. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cap, Mr Head, Mr Cot, on measures taken on the basis of the ongoing debate on unacceptable statements made by the Third President of the National Council. The vote will be taken tomorrow at the next voting time. As this request was made by 20 Members, a nameable vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the shops of the Members'poules. They bear the name of the Member and the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Cap, Head, Members and Members, to vote yes, and those who vote against, to put no to the vote. I now ask the author, Mrs Hagenhofer, to begin with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e96896	For business treatment, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e96920	Mr President. We have now had to watch for the second time in a vote, as Mr Weinzinger has put two votes in the mood. This is neither in accordance with the Rules of Procedure nor with the electoral procedure, because each Member must personally cast the paper. I am therefore seeking to clarify this question by business regulations – in any form whatsoever! In any case, this is not according to the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e96951	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. In the meantime, we will clarify the word and the facts. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e96994	I take up the interrupted session again and tell you that we have to repeat the election, as the facts have proved to be correct. [[Call SPÖ, ÖVP, BZÖ and Greens: Order call!]] – I ask for a little patience and to let myself be spoken out. For the vote by Mr Vilimsky, by Mr Lutz Weinzinger, which has not carried out the personal and direct vote, I shall give Mr Weinzinger a call for an order. [[Call SPÖ and BZÖ: Dem Vilimsky too!]] [[Prolonged fierce calls for call at SPÖ, ÖVP, BZÖ and Greens.]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] For this very matter, I also give Mr Vilimsky a call for an order. We are now reiterating the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cap, Mr Head, Mr Cot, on measures based on the ongoing debate on unacceptable statements made by the Third President of the National Council. As we already know, the vote has been called for. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we still have a fairly long vote in front of us, and you certainly make it easier for me to carry it out properly by slightly reducing the noise level. As the request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ballots. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by Mrs Cap, Head, Members and Members to vote in favour of 'Yes', those who vote against to put 'No' vote in place. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Pre-sided Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps easier You at least take the further steps of the writers if you lower the sound level a little. I ask Mrs Hagenhofer to begin with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97116	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97154	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote as follows: Members cast: 175, of which "Yes" votes 122, "No" votes 53. The application is therefore accepted. (E 33.) According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, stating their voting behaviour. (By way of derogation from the announcement of the voting behaviour by President Dr. Graf, the actual vote result is as follows: 175; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 121 (+ 1 invalid), No votes: 53. ) Members voted in ‘Yes’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Eßl; Faul, Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Grünewald; Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Korun, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lightenecker, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela, Lunacek; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchitsch, Musiol, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ollinger; Pack, Pendl, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schatz, Schittenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Schwentner, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Van der Bellen; Walser, Weninger Hannes, Windbüchler-Souschill, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Wurm; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Grain, Count, Grosz Gerald; Hagen, Haider, Haimbuchner, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Königshofer, Kunasek, Kurzmann; Lausch, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Petzner; Rosary; Scheibner, Schenk, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Strache; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Weinzinger Lutz, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Winter; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97372	Mr Klubobmann spoke on business treatment. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97396	Mr President, this is not how it is done. On the one hand, Mr Westenthaler says that he has seen this twice, and then Mr Weinzinger comes and says it was only once. My question: If it has been twice and it is true what Mr Westenthaler said – what was the second vote in which this was handled? Mr Westenthaler says so generously that he has seen it twice; one we have repeated. By the way, I have to say that this is a moral picture at all, which is inconceivable what is happening there! Honestly, this is not to be accepted! [[Congratulations and bravorage with SPÖ, ÖVP, BZÖ and Greens.]] Above all, I do not want to hear any more accusations that we are undemocratic and who knows what else are everything else. This is not a democratic process if we are to have a democratic process, which has a clean process, done in this form! I want to know what you intend to do. What other vote is affected by this? Or weren't there two votes at all? Tell me which one it was, then we will repeat this too! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I like to say that!]] I think that's impossible, so it can't be done! If you cannot say it exactly, then I am in favour of repeating all five national votes so that this is a clean matter. This cannot be the case, I would like to point out.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97443	Mr Weinzinger spoke on business. . I ask Mr Weinzinger to express his views directly. If this is the case, we shall also repeat this vote. At least that's my plan. Mr Weinzinger, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97499	Yeah, I was just asking who it was. I'll see you again. It was absolutely no evil intention! It has absolutely nothing to do with me wanting to falsify a choice or similar, but I did a favor. [[Call the BZÖ:Well, there's no such thing!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Then let him relinquish his mandate!]] I'm aware I made a mistake with that. I was just asking what vote it was during. That's all. It was the third vote!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97545	For business treatment, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97570	Mr President. Mr. Klubobmann Cap! Mr Weinzinger, I would like to help you fill out the memory gap. It was the request for the immediate termination of EU accession negotiations with Turkey. It is strange that the Secretary-General of that party, who is said to be also for this accession, did not find it worth the effort to go to the urn himself, but remained sitting and passed the vote on to Mr Weinzinger. A strange view of democracy, I really have to say.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97610	Mr Vilimsky also spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97635	Ad hoc to what Mr Westenthaler said: I am not in favour, but against the accession of Turkey. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] However, I would like to clarify the following: I can apologise to the Bureau, to the staff, to all the mandates. Background has not been an evil intention. I just do the left toe very, very hurt, and I was very much today – you can laugh what you want! [[Ironic cheerfulness with representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP, BZÖ and Greens.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Prill: It's just embarrassing!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not a party meeting in Simmering or what! We're here in Parliament!]] I've got it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97706	Mr Vilimsky, this is now no longer a business statement. I am going to interrupt the session for a few minutes so that the further procedure can be discussed. [[Call to the ÖVP:To the Rules of Procedure!]] - Sorry, has anyone made a statement on the Rules of Procedure? – The clubman of the ÖVP, Member of the Head, has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97738	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Weinzinger, this is not simply a mistake, of course, but it is a mistake that can be blamed, because in a democracy of voting the voice of another, that is – we do not need to talk about it – completely unacceptable! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of FPÖ) Do you do so in national elections?- Oh, my God!]] This applies equally to Mr Vilimsky. Only, Mr President, after consultation with Dr. Zägernitz, do I have to say the following: Once a result has been deunified by you in a vote, that is not to be revised either by him or by me. – I ask you to take this into account in your decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97790	Mr Klubobmann of FPÖ also spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97815	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very, very unpleasant thing, not a question, but I expressly insist: There was no fraud of election, because all the Members were here in the house. The fact that Mr Vilimsky has been in pain and has not told the President has been the mistake. [[Intervocations with BZÖ and Greens.]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it would have been possible to report this if Mr Weinzinger had, of course, been able to vote correctly and in accordance with the rules of procedure. So please do. You don't artificially have a scandal out of it that didn't exist!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97858	I think it's all said on the subject. [[Call to the Greens: a word on the Rules of Procedure!]] – A word on the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Klubobfrau the Greens, please apologise, I have overlooked you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97890	Mr President, I have a question: Is the number of votes cast consistent with the counting charges? – If that is not the case, I would ask for a short stand-in-law to see how to reorganise this mistake. [[Call the SPÖ:No!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97921	I have already said that I am going to interrupt the session briefly to define the further approach. I ask the Bureau members to come to me briefly. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e97953	I will resume the interrupted session and inform the National Council of my decision: An already ununified choice cannot be repeated – and cannot be repeated either. In view of the documents, it was also found that another voting behaviour had no influence on majority formation and therefore on the decision because the results of the votes were clear. In response and – without prejudice – in interpretation of § 66 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, where it is regulated to proceed with a secret vote, I decide that the vote will not be repeated. Nevertheless, I would like to say at this point that it is, of course, improper and unwarranted not to give his voice here in the House directly and personally. [[Abg. Oils: Not “unhappiness”; but that is!]] However, since this has already been taken note of by both of them and I have already given a call for an order, I am now saying that I will give each of them a further call for order for this repeated procedure by Mr Weinzinger and by Mr Vilimsky. We are also a model for the public, and I would ask you to take this into account in the future. [[Ironic Holiness in the Hall]] In addition, one last comment: I would be pleased if such a behavior would be reported in time before the decomposition. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Muttonen, Fuhrmann, colleagues on measures to strengthen Austrian filmmaking. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is so unanimously accepted. (E 34.) Finally, we reach the vote on the draft Bundesfinanzgesetz 2010 together with investments in 112 of the supplements. The following additional or amendments and requests for separate votes are available: Amendment tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer, Members of Parliament, several supplementary or amendments tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Krainer, Mr fellow Members, two amendments tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Auer, and two amendments tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr Ing. Lugar, Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, as well as a request for a separate vote by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the bill – in the order of Appendices I to IV – and finally on the text of the Federal Finance Act – of the supplementary or amendment proposals mentioned and of the request for separate vote. I will vote on the motions for resolutions tabled to the 2010 Federal Finance Act following the third reading in the order of submission. First of all, we are voting on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President, on the introduction of new proposals. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Krainer, on the title of expenditure and revenue 400 and on the description of the proposal for a proposal 1/20157 in the 2010 federal proposal. I would like to ask for a positive sign if I agree. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Jakob Auer, Krainer, colleagues have tabled an amendment to subheading 01 – Presidential Chancellery. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We now come to the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr Ing. Lugar, Mag. Kogler, colleagues on division 02 – Federal legislation. Whoever stands for this, I ask for a sign of faith. – This is also unanimously adopted. [[Call the FPÖ in the direction of a photographer standing at the gallery:Hey! There's one up there! That's incredible!]] I'm allowed to ask the photographer not to photograph in the series. That's the last call for you to pay attention to this! [[Abg. Vilimsky: Identity determination!]] We are still in the voting process. In addition, a amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Co-workers, concerns division 03 – Constitutional Court. If you are in favour of this amendment, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is also unanimously adopted. We are now coming to a separate vote on those parts of the 2010 Federal Project on Division 04 – Administrative Court – in the version of the Government template. I would ask those Members of the House who give their agreement to these parts to give a positive sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. There is also an amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, colleagues, concerning the division 05 – Public Prosecutorship. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is also unanimously adopted. The vote will be taken on the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, fellow Members, who are referring to subheading 06 – Court of Auditors. I would like to ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of this request for an acceptable sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on the remaining parts of the 2010 budget for the following sub-divisions: UG 01 – Presidential Chancellery UG 02 – Federal legislation UG 03 – Constitutional Court of Justice UG 05 – Public Prosecutorship UG 06 – Court of Auditors as amended. When I agree with these parts of the draft law, I seek a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues on division 10 – Federal Chancellor's Office. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is accepted by a majority. We come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Fift builders, colleagues and colleagues on military matters in Division 14 including the amount of change in Appendices I and Ia, Ib and Ic as a result of these changes. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for signs. – This is the minority and so rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the Federal proposal as amended by the Government's proposal. I would ask those Members of the House who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. There is also an amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President of the Commission on sports promotion. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, fellow Members on subheading 15 – Financial management. With support, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The vote will now be taken on the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues, who are referring to subheading 30 – Teaching. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. On subheading 42 – Agriculture, forestry and water management, a amendment was tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Kräiner and others. Whoever gives his consent to this amendment, I ask for a sign. – This is also adopted by a majority. We are now voting on the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, colleagues in the area of division 58 – financing, exchange of currencies. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I now leave on the remaining parts of Appendix 1 to the Federal Preview 2010 which have not yet been voted on, including all the overall summaries (Annexes 1a to 1c) as amended by the Government template, taking into account the newly adopted supplementary or amendment amendments by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Co-workers and Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr Ing. Lugar, Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to this part of the draft law to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on Appendix II Staff Offices - gross representation in the version of the Government template. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of obeisance. – This is accepted by a majority. We also reach the vote on Appendix III financing, exchange of currencies – gross representation. To this end, MEPs have tabled an amendment to Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Since only this one request was made, I shall immediately vote on Appendix III to the 2010 Federal Finance Act, as amended by the Government template, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Co-workers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for this to be a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. The vote will now be taken on Appendix IV – Staff Plan. The representatives of Krainer, Jakob Auer, Dr. Fichtenbauer, Ing. Lugar, Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning division 02 – Parliament's Directorate. Whoever agrees to this request, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the remaining parts of Annex IV – Staff Plan as amended by the Government template. I ask those Members of the House who are here to vote in favour of a sign that is acceptable. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we reach the vote on the text of the 2010 Federal Finance Act. Hiezu has tabled an amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, colleagues on Articles I, VI and VIII of the text of the 2010 Federal Finance Act. Since only one request was made, I shall immediately vote on the text of the 2010 Federal Finance Act and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, colleagues. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is accepted by a majority. This concludes the second reading on the Bundesfinanzgesetz 2010 and the annex. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. This adopted the 2010 budget. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] As announced, we now proceed to the vote on the resolution tabled to the 2010 Bundesfinanzgesetz by Mr Zanger, colleagues and colleagues on the extension of audit competence of the Court of Auditors and the national accounting authorities. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[21:06:30]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-05-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00023_d8e98145	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 612/A(E) to 658/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. In addition, questions 2100/J to 2173/J and 2175/J to 2330/J and a question to the President of the National Council, 21/JPR, were received. The agenda is exhausted. I call the next meeting of the National Council at 9 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting is closed.
