ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3209	I'll open the 51. Meeting of the National Council. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Gaßner, Mag. Molterer, Ing. Hackl, Ing. Hofer, Jannach, Mag. Inlanders and Themessl. [[13:08:48]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3240	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[13:08:59]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3405	Before entering the agenda, MEPs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, asked for the self-employed at the same time to urgently deal with Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek's motion 922/A(E) concerning 'Climate block closure' – more money for climate protection'. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the implementation of the urgent request will take place at least three hours after the date of entry into the agenda, i.e. at 4:10 a.m. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3426	In order to be able to negotiate item 30 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. This is the report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Central Public Prosecutor's Office for the Persecution of Corruption for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Karl Oellinger, 581 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the removal from the time-limit for this committee report, to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3457	The debate on points 1 to 3, 4 and 5, 10 to 24, 26 and 27, and 28 and 29 of the agenda were proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3483	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. A day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 108 minutes, FPÖ 96 minutes as well as BZÖ and greens per 84 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted with the required two-thirds majority. [[13:12:06]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (480, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Management of the Federal Budget (Federal Budget Act 2013 – BHG 2013) (578 d.b.) 2. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Budget Act (579, e.g.) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the Service Procedure Act 1984, the Contracting Officer's Act 1948 and the Wage Law 1956 (580 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3541	We now come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3569	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Those who have followed parliamentary debates in recent weeks, days and hours hardly believe that it is possible to make a five-party request for unanimous decision-making a new, modern budgetary law. From 2013 onwards, this budgetary law will enter into force, a project that preceded intensive preliminary consultation for more than four years, a legislative matter that many parliamentarians probably could not have imagined even in the dream 20 or 30 years ago. New ways are under way, there is a change in budget management. And I do not hide that as the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I am very pleased that this result is possible. That is why I would like to express my thanks to all my colleagues and colleagues. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[General condolences.]] I also particularly thank Mr. Dr. Steger and his team for the excellent preliminary work, for his support, for consulting and, above all, for the basic work. But just as all colleagues in the political clubs were thanked, regardless of the political colour. Yes, in spite of all the differences, there are areas of the common. Even under the strict supervision of the ex-College Rossmann, recognition is also expressed to all experts who have helped to formulate this law matter in the end in a way that has come to pass unanimously. [[He's sitting on the gallery.]] What's new, what challenge, what responsibility? What new land will we enter? How will control be exercised in the future? What opportunities do the Committee on Budgets have for respectable subcommittees in particular and for Members in general? What areas and possibilities will be given to the Ministers of Trade? A budget service will be set up here in the house, which will be available to us. And how this change in budgetary management will be dealt with and what efficiency can be achieved, and what additional work, what responsibility – not only for the experts in the Ministry of Finance, but also, above all, for those in the specialist ministries and especially for this budget and subcommittee – will arise from it and how much work we have in front of us will be shown. That's a big throw. However, it will be decisive what Parliament is actually doing about it. What are we doing as parliamentarians with this new litter, with this budget service, and how is this proposed impact control actually implemented? I would like this new budgetary law to be just as it was designed, as it was advised: in maximum agreement, ultimately, a five-party agreement – with some clear clarifications. They all know that the current budgetary law lacked the orientation of effect. It was only what came to it above, and less what became of it. The comprehensibleness and transparency left a little to be desired. The new budgetary law is based on the principles of sustainability, multi-annuality, flexibility and, above all, transparency. This should be important to us, because it also requires a cultural change in the entire federal administration – that is undisputed – but also in politics. I would like to thank you for this co-operation, for the possibility of greater clarity, but above all I am delighted with Parliament's enhanced and improved participation. Thank you again! I wish all of us every success with this new budgetary law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3648	The next speaker was Mr Krainer. Fixed speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3671	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If we now decide unanimously on the second stage of the budgetary reform, it is a surprise, as Mr Auer said earlier, if one has heard the previous debate or the debates of the last few weeks and days. On the other hand, it also corresponds to the culture we have here in the House on budgetary and financial matters. It's not that rare. I believe that the two chairmen of the Committees, Mr Auer in the Committee on Budgets and colleague in the Committee on Budgets, also have a high share of it, because of course the Presidency says a lot about the climate in the Committee, as the opposition, with the various political groups, is treated with different opinions. [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]] I believe that it is also necessary to note that this climate has been in place for a long time. This has not been the case since today, but it has been the case for many, many years, at least since the time when I was in opposition myself. You just have to recognize that. I think it is right that, despite these differences that exist, of course, on political and content issues, and even though there are major debates and differences in the House, as we have seen in the previous debate, we are still trying to maintain this climate in this area. This is, of course, not only for the two chairmen, but also for all the people involved, Mrs Gradauer and Mr Weinzinger from FPÖ, Mr Kogler from the Greens and Mr Lugar from the BZÖ each in the budget and the financial sector, that we have this good level of discussion and also have the will to carry the big issues together. I think that the question of budgetary law is one of the essential issues that should be fully resolved from any party-political conflict, because we are in fact defining the rules for the next twenty and thirty years. In essence – certainly we will insist that we have to adapt something in a few years’ time – we are here on a large scale laying down the rules as to how we, as a house, want to carry out the key task of every Parliament, namely budgetary sovereignty, how we give the government the necessary freedom, but also the necessary supervision and control by Parliament to deal with it. What is new about budgetary law? – There are a number of news. I would essentially like to limit myself to three things. One is simply a new form of accounting: no longer a camera list, a revenue-expenditure account, credit positions, but these are really three different types of invoice. It is a financial account, which is essentially the old account, and a result account – in other words, a double accounting, as is the case in companies – and an asset account, so that we also have an overview of the assets of this Republic, of purposes and assets, not always of revenue and expenditure. The second major innovation is the impact-orientation sector, that we no longer only decide on figures, a budget, but that we also decide on the political objectives pursued by this budget with this numbering work – the figures are intended to serve political objectives and measures – and on the corresponding measures, the projects, the projects for each budget. Mr Auer has already mentioned the fact that it is also a matter of greater flexibility for the individual departments. But that also means a lot of work for Parliament, because we have a very important role here. Parliament will be the body to ensure that these objectives and measures are transparent, understandable and verifiable. That will be the task of us as a house, and that will be a lot of work, so I also think this budget service is very good. “Budget Office”, “budget service” – we have now agreed on “budget service” because it is the language code in parliamentaryism that most closely follows. But it is good that we also have the necessary expertise in Parliament in order to be able to deal with these instruments at all. I am very pleased if we decide unanimously on all of this. We will certainly not decide unanimously on the budgets, we will not always agree on whether the objectives are the right ones, whether the measures to achieve the objectives are the right ones. But at least we should agree on the basic structure that we want to do so together. What will continue to exist and what, I believe, was also very important for the whole level of discussion on this issue is this parliamentary advisory board, which is very well sent by section head Steger and his entire team, also by the Court of Auditors and by all the important players. It was very important that we were involved in the whole preparation of this second stage, that the Advisory Board should continue to exist and that we are now also involved in implementing budgetary law – information on regulations et cetera – so that we can prepare for our task as well. For it will be like colleague Auer has said, above all, that it is very important what we do about it and how we deal with it. But I believe that we now have a framework with which we can do that. I have the impression that we are all good will to do so and to actually strengthen Parliament, with all the important issues raised, with transparency, that it is also clear to the public. I am therefore pleased that today's decision-making has been adopted and can essentially only join the words of my previous speaker once again, namely thanks to all those involved. It was many hours that we spent here, and often we were so in detail that you had to try to see the whole thing again. But I think that we all succeeded together at the end of the day, and so I am delighted with today's decision-making. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3739	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. If you wish, speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3760	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I can really try it in 3 minutes because my previous speakers have already explained and said most of the new contents of budgetary law. I would like to join with the thanks that have been made. We are also pleased that there is a five-party arrangement here. I would also like to thank Mr Steger and his team for this result, especially Mr Rossmann, who has repeatedly given us good advice and advice. But I would also like to say that I do not want to thank Jan Krainer, who accompanied the last steps and insisted very strongly on this five-party agreement. I think that this is a very important matter in such an important matter. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It has succeeded in setting up good budget rules. You know that good budget rules are able to significantly improve the management of the budget. We have created a modern accounting system here, which is to go into action in 2013. I might add, on the content, that the Federal Finance Agency has also been scraped back a little more and that it is no longer possible – as early as 1. January 2010 – that loans can be received to finance financial transactions. You know, there's a lot of losses left. That's God's thanks again to the past. It has also succeeded in preventing Parliament from coming under the wheels at the last moment. This has somehow occurred, but thanks have been given to the introduction of the budget service and the subcommittee on the Committee on Budgets. Whether it works and how it works will show the practice. I think it will be a lot more to adapt and improve. However, it is certain that we need this new budgetary law, because the problems of Austria are particularly large enough in the budget area. You remember, and I can say that we have calculated that by the end of this legislative period we will have to deal with 250 billion € in debt, with an interest rate service of almost 10 billion €! We already have to do so in a very consistent and disciplined manner in order to regain these high amounts to a degree that allows the state to be financially successful. We are in a critical situation, so that this new budgetary law comes at the right time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3820	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Lugar speaking. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3842	Mr President. High house! First, I would also like to thank all those involved. I too felt it was very pleasant, as was discussed on these issues in the year I was allowed to attend. It was always a very fair, very objective dialogue; I also enjoyed it very much. This new budgetary law is something – and it's going down a little bit – which, in my view, is epochal. It's something the state is thinking about for the first time: Where do I even want to go with my ministries? – It used to be so that you just put up the money because it was necessary. Now we are thinking first of what we want to achieve with the money, then making so-called global budgets and thus also giving the ministries a certain amount of responsibility to carry forward constructively, in relation to the objectives of impact which have been defined. With all that is positive here, something is swinging with me, which also makes me worried. This, I say, is a huge change in budgetary law, too, which poses certain dangers. These dangers are that the objectives of action are misused by the fact that the ministries are not as ambitious as we might wish. In other words, it would be theoretically possible for a ministry to set itself a goal that may perhaps serve the Minister, but not the general public. That is to say, with this advance of confidence that we are giving today, by agreeing here, we have immanently also taken a certain risk of the government not fulfilling this trust that we give it with life. Therefore, in the implementation of this law, we will look very closely at whether the objectives of action are also chosen in such a way that they are implemented accordingly in the sense of a modern, slim and efficient state. There is also – and I am particularly pleased about this – this budget service, which was so vehemently called for by the opposition and which is also intended to help the individual Members – this was also a great success of the negotiations – to take a close look at the following: Are these objectives adequately formulated and useful? Will the budgetary targets also be achieved? – An evaluation can also be made here, with the appropriate will to intervene in time when it goes in the wrong direction. In my view, that is really the most important thing about this whole thing, this advance of confidence – and this is a advance of confidence, because there is more self-reliance of the ministry, more right of self-determination, there is more flexibility in the respective budgets, and there is above all a kind of self-control, because ultimately the ministry itself is the goal. That is why it is very important for Parliament to exercise a proper control right here. I think that's what we've done quite well. If we continue to live up to this in the future, I believe that in the end we will be able to use the tax resources effectively to ensure that we get a slim, powerful financial management and strong management in general and that the tax money is ultimately well-connected. In this context, it is also important to remind me once again that economy must be the highest principle, even now, in this new budgetary law, and in general. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution by Mrs Bucher and others on the limitation of the re-indebtedness of federal, state and local authorities: ‘The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is asked to submit to the National Council a draft law which will ensure that a resolution is put in place today; is there anything unclear in this resolution? – "the fact that the federal government should in principle only cover 0.35% of GDP and countries and communities in principle should not in principle enter new budgetary debt, or only in exceptional situations such as recessions (e.g. can be carried out through sustainablely strengthening future investments.’’ [[Green call for tender]] [[Abg. Oillinger: How that fits in Carinthia!]] [[Further calls for Greens]] I think that is a reasonable proposal. I'd be glad if this were to be a majority. On the whole, thank you again to all those who participated in this five-party agreement! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3897	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, it is linked to matter and therefore also to negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3944	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. Requested speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e3965	Mr President. Chairman of the Committee, in which case: Mr rapporteur! Is he here? - Oh, yes! Yeah, you have to, too. If we did not always agree on content in this process over long distances, we would find a few words of recognition. These apply to different persons. The new parliamentaryism could already begin with the fact that we look at something like the reporting system differently. I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur, the rapporteur in this very large causa, has made a very great effort to bring all the political groups, so to speak, in the interview process, to the table fictitiously. This is also a method of negotiation; it was very useful for many people involved. At the end we tried again anyway to third, to fourth, to fifth, but the process between them was quite noteworthy. In the European Parliament, this is going on and there is something going on, despite many different political groups and even more different interests – due to the still existing domination of the country's interests! That's the interesting thing. But this is because the Members are not so tied back to the government. I say this now, of course, without irony, because I know exactly what the real constitution is like in Austria. You can't do that from today to tomorrow, and it may not be desirable to do away with it, we can see it ourselves. But it is worth noting and deserves recognition! The chairman of the Committee and, ultimately, Dr. Stummfully of the ÖVP as a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have certainly made great efforts. – I then come to talk briefly about the many differences, don't worry! Originally, we had a unanimous decision here in the house on a two-thirds matter – at some point we will probably come back there again – that is to say, to the whole financial constitution; this has been a long time since. At that time, of course, we have already raised our concerns and said what would be useful in terms of simple legal implementation from our point of view – because in detail, especially with such things of the rabbit in the pepper – that we would have liked to have had it different. In any case, it was: What was enforced was then an expert advisory board, and there has been intensive negotiations. I would like to mention a few more: the political groups, or most of them, have nominated their experts. For the FPÖ, it was Professor Mandl, for the ÖVP – old-fashioned, one has to say – Professor Lehner, for the BZÖ – with always innovative contributions – Professor Rondo-Brovetto. Of course, you won't harm me if I don't like last night. Mr Rossmann particularly stressed the fact that the Green Group had made the expert contributions there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There he is – we know him here in the house! He is popular and feared as a hard negotiator on the one hand, and of course as one who knows himself in the details, on the other hand. It also has certain advantages and can build its persistence on appropriate knowledge, which ours is not always so successful, gal, colleague stupid! Now, and I think that is a good time for this, I would like to refer to the differences and, in spite of our agreement, to the concerns we had. These are still valid, because this agreement, which has been reached, is based on an agreement which I consider to be a groundbreaking one. We will, in fact, change the parliamentary process and the contribution to the entire budget procedure for years, perhaps, it will: If all of this goes up, it will be a massive change, but then it will be better for Parliament! In order to return to these points which I would like to address in favour of the Minutes: These concerns remain true, but they do not lead us to reject them now. As an opposition party, we could make it easy and always hold the half-full glass or half-empty glass debate. In that case, I do not want to agree, because an additional agreement has been reached – but now with the will of all the parties – which makes it even more sense for us to agree to the overall convergence, because only on this basis – and I understand that is the way and the outcome of negotiations – could the overall package be reached at all. The old core was the reform of federal budgetary law. Our concerns relate to several points; I would like to highlight only four. In principle, we are introducing different new accounting systems; that would not be unreasonable and perhaps not at all. The only concern is that we now have different types of earnings account and then we also draw up a capital account afterwards, whose potential benefits cannot keep up with the additional effort. At least that would be the fear. After all, a compromise has been reached in the asset statement, so that the administrative system does not have to be overly inflated, because we do not have to start to assess everything and everyone what the Republic owns. In the external evaluation we would have had different possibilities. But, among other things, a stronger direct and legal anchoring for the Court of Auditors is not the case now. With regard to impact orientation, one really has to look at the practice of how this can work, and then follow that, because international experience shows that in practice everything does not always work the way the legislator has presented itself. Fourthly, we would add to the point – that will be done more precisely by colleague Lichtenecker anyway – that we see the gender budgeting as too little institutionalized in the field of impact orientation and control. However, we know that we are in a minority position in this House. After all, it is now explicitly anchored as a point of its own at least at the appropriate control body. But that's too little for us. Finally, of course, I am still talking about the big lines. It is a change, it is a change in culture, especially if we start to behave differently here, because that is also part of it. From the conditions it is, at least, that. Under the rule – which is quite intentional – and with this one could live as an opposition party – is strengthened by the core of the reform, by which BHG 2013 strengthens the government. This is and is happening in the hope that the whole process will become more efficient. It is true, however, that from the very beginning, at the time when we discussed and negotiated the financial constitution, we have pointed out that Parliament must be strengthened. Why not introduce more modern practices such as global budgets, such as four-year financial planning, the heading structure? At the same time, however, direct detailed competences of Parliament are constantly withdrawn. More details on the executive, but more scope for Parliament elsewhere! There is nothing to do with this, but there is now little law in it, but thanks to God, there is a corresponding agreement of all five clubs. In my opinion, this would be the approach if we could fill this with life for a big throw. It would be the first time in this House that there would be a material agency for individual Members, for the relevant specialist committee – but which, as the government itself has proposed in the agreement, can also be available for other committees in particular. It would be like having a legislative service of our own in the legal field for Members. But we can only dream of that. At least once this is an approach. We also broke our heads about how it must be designed. This is not a Larifari, there are some clues in there, including the fact that minority rights can be seized in order to make inquiries so that the expertise can really be collected. These are now even being carried out in writing – I really think this is an agreement that is worth something. At the same time, we ourselves have said from the opposition that this must be limited, because otherwise a single Member could paralyze the whole beautiful service that we are to get there by shooting in there every day. Such a situation must be limited in a similar way to that of the Court of Auditors, and here too, like the Committee of Inquiry, it must be said that, when minority rights are enshrined, they must be regulated and limited, because otherwise it cannot be excluded that the minority dominates the majority. There can't be that! I am therefore speaking so clearly, because this is sometimes held back. But this is not so, because first of all we can think logically, and second, we do not want to, because otherwise – third – it would not be enforceable at all. Here, too, this wisdom is pervasive. Last point: We have heard today that as a Parliament we want to do more autonomous work. In the end, for example, this has already happened at the major Committee of Inquiry's day-to-day work. If, on the one hand, it is more control and, on the other, it is also a matter of increasing the desire to become a working parliament, at least as far as the budget process is concerned, it has become a flexible step so that we can become a stronger working parliament in a few years – not tomorrow, but in a few years. That's why we made it, and now something has come out. You also see, there is still the possibility of an agreement, even if this is apparently always in this country until the last night. But now is the day!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4083	Mr Lopatka spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4105	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At this hour of thank you, if I may say so, I am particularly grateful to the Spiritus rector of this law, head of section Gerhard Steger, who has also taken place here today. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] He has made it his heart's duty to position Austria across Europe in such a way that we can rightly say that we are very, very, very forward when it comes to modern budgetary law. I really want to thank you for that at the beginning. Secondly, I am also grateful for the fact that, in the end, a five-party agreement has succeeded in defining the rules for the game, according to which we will have to carry out our tasks in the future. Mr Kogler, I would like to see this as a quantum leap as regards quality if Parliament is equipped with its own budget service in the future. I like to argue about who has more advantages, who has been strengthened more – the government or Parliament. I assume that both are beneficiaries and that there is no loser in this scheme. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, it is!]] With today's decision-making, we establish a modern federal administration in the budget area. A few days ago, we discussed again with the experts of the Court of Auditors, IHS and Wifo in this famous administrative reform group, with regard to efficiency and how we can continue. The only area in which I see that implemented by this decision is budgetary law. This departure from the old camera music, from this narrow revenue and expenditure account to a modern budget system is very important especially in times when we do not have our budgets to generate with swirling revenue, but with opposite signs. In this year alone, it will eventually be around €5 billion, which unfortunately are no longer on the revenue side, which we still had available in 2008. Ladies and gentlemen, the first step in the reform in 2009 is with 1. The law on binding expenditure ceilings entered into force in January. This is of enormous importance, especially today, because, as I have already mentioned, we need strict budgetary discipline on the expenditure side as a result of the budgetary situation if our budget is not to be completely out of control. I am glad that this budgetary law can also serve as a model for the debate on gender justice. Of course, a decisive step for the ministers of the department will be to increase their own responsibility in the budget management a lot. More flexibility, of course, also brings more responsibility. With the use of these variable elements within the upper limits of expenditure, we also have the opportunity, in phases of rising unemployment in areas that are heavily economic dependent, to work in a stabilising manner as a whole and to act anti-cyclically as a whole. This is particularly true internationally and has been particularly positively highlighted by the European Commission. In one of the OECD's last reports, our new budgetary law and what we will have in the future have been particularly positive. At the same time – as I am already in the administrative reform – it would be very good if the countries were moving in this direction too – our federal states here are meant by “states”. I am very glad that we have reached this step together. For the citizen and the citizen – in the end, laws should be passed in such a way that the citizen and the citizen, not only the Members, the Parliament and we in the government are beneficiaries, too, it will be due to the global budgets and the Starting from the presentation, which we had before, which goes into the finest detail, it is possible to read the budgets. How effective taxation will actually work, we cannot estimate this today. It is, however, an essential step. I assume that through this integrated resource and impact management, we will be able to bring the relevant benefits that our work should have for citizens to the centre. In this way, we are certainly making an essential contribution to modern federal administration and also to greater transparency as to what actually happens with the resources of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we managed to reach this decision in this year. I thank you for the fact that this decision-making will be a unanimous one.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4152	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. It's stupid. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4174	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! When I recall the first meeting of today's Committee of Inquiry and compare the current debate on federal budgetary law with that, I can only say: What a beautiful contrast! In the first meeting political day hack, rigid fronts between government parties and opposition parties, mutual accusations, partly under the belt line – and now harmony, concrete policy and five-party consensus. Unfortunately, I think only, and I say this quite openly here, that both the media interest and the interest here in the hall have been much more focused on the day hack than on the debate on the subject, while I already admit that budget law is a particularly sprung and technical issue. That's quite clear to me. A suggestion for Parliament's presidium: In future, when reaching agreements with the ORF, you should consider: What kind of image do we want to send from Parliament? Do we want to send a picture of how Taferln's kindergarten is held in the air, grinned, you're being smeared, you know? If we want to have such a picture, we have to act like today. Then let us broadcast the confrontation on television and take place the concrete work in the field, excluding the public! This is a concrete suggestion for Parliament's presidium. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the future, you should really consider that. In my constituency I hear about such transfers as this morning: How you're acting! I shot the TV. – I don't think we need that. That was just a little inspiration. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we decide on this new federal budgetary law – once again: a brittle topic, a very technical issue – this is really a big throw – a really big throw! – and at European level, I have already said this in committee, a best practice model. When taking part in European Fiscal Meetings, everyone says: Wow! That's what you're doing in Austria? That's what you brought together? – The next time we say that we have a five-party consensus, they will be more amazed. Fact is, that's a quantum leap! More flexibility, more transparency, more self-responsibility. The transition from camera music to doppik is really a quantum leap. I must honestly say, thank you very much – he has already been mentioned several times – to Dr. Steger, who has done the preparatory work for years, who has not only worked on this matter with incredible expertise, but also with heart blood. I recall that it is already the first approaches under Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Weeds have given what some people today don't like to hear anymore. There were the first approaches, the first options. Then there was Minister of Finance Molterer, and now this takes place under Minister of Finance Sepp Pröll. [[Abg. May. Kogler: I mentioned them anyway!]] I would also like to thank my coalition colleague Jan Krainer. I have never praised him like that before, but I really have to say how he has kneaded in the last few weeks and days and tried to get the other factions into the boat, which was really exemplary. Mr Krainer, thank you many times! That was great. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] As far as Mr Kogler is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, for all those who were not in the Committee on Budgets, I am pleased that the prognosis I have given has gone up there. I have said that I have known colleagues Kogler for so many years now as constructive partners and I cannot imagine that the proceedings in the committee of inquiry have damaged his personality so much that he has completely lost his constructive character. The Greens agree today. May. Kogler has proven: He is a constructive partner in budgetary and financial matters. Mr Kogler, I would like to begin by congratulating at least once on this subject, but I would like to thank you very much for your constructive cooperation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thanks also to colleagues Grabauer, who has worked with a lot of discretion and expertise, also to colleagues Lugar. I admit, yesterday evening we didn't know it, it didn't decide until today in the morning. Nevertheless, it was really a beautiful parliamentary experience to see that we are ready for work on concrete issues, in concrete policy of matter, which are forward-looking – we are putting the course for the next few years – far away from the party hack. To the Parliamentary Budget Service, which we will set up with a five-party agreement, I can say the following: I was always in favour of strengthening Parliament. However, I have always said that it should not be an increased giant machine and that there should be no double flattening with the budget section. It is intended to be an efficient, powerful, small force to consult the Committee on Budgets, in any case also to consult the other committees, short studies, analyses and expertise, in order to strengthen Parliament. Of course, I said – also yesterday, Madam President Prammer – that this cannot only be additive. If this is so important to us, ladies and gentlemen, then perhaps other tasks in the house are less important. It is therefore a question not only of adding posts, but also of considering whether the priorities are really right. All in all, I'm really happy. Thank you once again to all the colleagues of the other political groups. That is how we should understand parliamentary work in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4234	The next item is Mr Matznetter. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4258	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! That's right. We've been working on the subject for many years. If we are already in the process of historical reprocessing, so to speak: It's been six years since I started the discussion with section head Steger for the first time long before we had the first talks. My comment about this was already twofold: As a tax advisor, it has hurt my heart and soul to see that public households ultimately have a household that is managed in such a way as not even a barrage is run. It comes from the time when with geeseciel in tables – for the then time, in the 18th century. In the 19th century, reasonable – running the cassatorics and managing the state treasure – at that time there were many debts. But one thing was clear, and that was my second conclusion: You're doing something to yourself! I would like to add my thanks to Mr Lopatka's statement to Mr Steger's head of section. This is the Thanks to him and his ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance, but also to everyone else, across the federal administration. They really have something to do! [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] To make clear what that means: We've heard a lot of impact orientation today. I'm trying to translate this placardively: In reality, this changes the form of politics. Let us discuss this on the basis of an area in which we agree: We want to do more for the universities. We are discussing this at the level that we are committed to using expenditure of 2% of GDP in 2020. So we are only discussing a sum that we will make available without considering what we expect to happen in this area. It'll look different in the future! We will then have to talk to the respective Minister of Science or the Minister of State about the effects. We will talk about the academic ratio, which is too low, and set the targets we want to achieve on the way to a higher quota. How many graduates are there? What about the individual study directions? How many students are you able to train? How many research results do you have? It is precisely these questions that do not just say that more money is good, but money that is used efficiently is good to meet the objectives, the objectives and objectives of policy. I could now list a number of other areas. I really think it's a milestone. It was a pleasure for me to be able to accompany this process in many functions, so as a hard cabinet still as a member of the opposition. I am saying that – this confession can be made today – often the discussion in the Committee on Budgets was not as critical as it was in its own political groups. I think the other budget speakers will not have done otherwise. There was a lot of persuasion and information work needed to explain what is happening here, because everyone said: The Minister of Finance is once again strengthening his position. At the beginning there was no thought about what that means for every field of politics. This information and information work was one that each of us has done in his group, and this has led to the conclusion that we can adopt this decision unanimously today. We're finally doing something right. All too often, in this House, we do not do what all the other local authorities do. If a federal XY is interested in something, it doesn't matter if it's reasonable or not. Then there is a certain corps spirit for your own federal state. But with us all interests are always immediately at the table – from the smallest community in every Bun desland. As a result, the covenant often fails to enforce reasonable things against others accordingly. By allowing this work, namely the final negotiations, to take place here in Parliament, Parliament has said: One moment, in fact, is the last-decisive institution in the household of the National Council. We have to tell the executive how to handle and manage the money. We are now issuing empowerments, not – to clarify it – to the Minister of Finance, but ultimately to the individual departments in the global budget. However, we reserve the right to set up in the control – I say so deliberately – to look at very precisely these spaces, which we give, to qualify them with the expertise from the budget service, and to represent them with a permanent subcommittee capable of working in an accompanying control as Parliament – not as government and opposition groups. I would like to thank the honourable Members who have made this possible. We have shown the government a little bit the teeth, although – compliment – it was not so much in the Ministry of Finance that they have made us so sustainable resistance. I have to make two more amendments, which are also part of our overall amendment. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following amendment. Amendment Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Jan Krainer, colleagues ==References====External links== Decisions to be taken by the European Parliament and the Council on the proposal from the Commission to The application concerning a federal law amending the Federal Budget Act (579, e.g.) is amended as follows: Point 2 reads as follows: ‘2. § 40 para. 3 is as follows: ‘(3) The Federal Minister for Finance or the Federal Minister for Finance is responsible for ensuring the willingness to pay according to Abs. 1 to carry out liquidity planning and to maintain sufficient liquidity; the liquidity reserve required for this purpose may be 33 %. does not exceed the financing framework of the respective Federal Finance Act. The Federal Minister for Finance or the Federal Minister for Finance shall be responsible for the establishment of funds; she or she shall arrange them in accordance with the liquidity plan in such a way that she or she may, if necessary, have at her disposal.’; I would ask you to take these two proposals into consideration. Although the time has expired, I would like to conclude by boldly saying to the honourable Member that it is also in the interest of the opposition to make known at the external representation those points in which we show how parliamentary work can be done. Therefore, I would like to end my remarks with an appeal, namely also in the presidential and in the composition of the sessions not only to look at the headline on page 2 in the Boulevard, but to pay attention to the overall performance, for at some point you will be exposed to the question in your constituencies: And what did you accomplish? – Since it is not enough, I say it from my own experience as an opposition member to say: There and there we have put the criticism properly! or: We've shown them! This will be good sometime, but one will also have to refer to those cases in which one has a total responsibility, since as a member of this house one is part of the legislative assembly. Therefore, please also pay attention to the composition of the agenda, when reporting in the ORF, to the fact that those things where we really do carry something forward – and that is what we have – are also brought accordingly. I'll end with that appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4407	The two amendments which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4513	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4535	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Now we have heard from a call of some – both from the government parties and from the opposition parties – that we have obviously come up with something really intelligent and happening. I'm allowed to go a little bit. I have been political for many years and also active in my profession, which, as I believe, is known to some. It was always extremely difficult for me to understand camera-listics, both in the municipal council and in the country's many years of activity as well as in the still relatively short period of activity in the Federal Parliament, because, in my training, I had the double accounting and my view was an economic one, not in the sense of the BAO, but in the sense of revenue and expenditure and the use of them. How do revenue come into being, for what reasons are revenue coming in and for what reasons are expenditure going out? That's what we've got under control now. All of you who sit here and listen to this debate are interested in our finances, in our money, in our budget. They all know about the problems our Republic has. Now we can apologise, not only our Republic has problems, others are still going. It's worse, but we're bad enough. It doesn't matter whether we're in opposition or the government – This can change significantly over the next few years, and it will probably also change one or the other – but the task remains the same. We must try to get rid of the Republic as far as possible of its debts, first of all from the worst debts. This is our duty with regard to our offspring, our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren – for we will need until we have half this in hand. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This new budgetary law is really suitable for this need and for the help of this great and huge task. I'm not someone else who always thanks everyone for everything, but in the given case I have to say it: Under the active leadership of a Jakob Auer, with a matnetter, a mute, a grassy term, a Kogler and a Linder who were truly relevant and possessing high-class expertise – certainly, one has recognized –, has had what has been said, hand and foot. People knew what they were talking about. That was very important and also interesting. I hope that all the other committees in this House will at least work similarly effectively. I'm convinced that's the way it is, otherwise much wouldn't work with us. Ladies and gentlemen, I say thank you for allowing me to experience – also from my professional practice – that we have done something to help our state. Since we have all recognized that it is necessary, since we have recognized that it is important and is directed towards the future, we have found a unity. This shows, in spite of the horrors we have heard this morning, that we are a good Parliament in a good republic. May it stay that way!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4595	The next speaker was Mr Linder. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4616	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, if you are now stressing the harmony, I must say: It is not up to us that this has been disturbed. I think we should both take the nose and ask why there have been whirlwinds and discussions in the morning, and not just say that it has not gone from us. That you would like to tell ORF what to send, I believe – we do not wish for it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the topic of new budget law: When I was elected mayor in 2003, we have budgeted hair precisely and precisely in the municipality and given every group what it gets, what it can use; for example, in the fire brigade it was € 1,000 for diesel, € 100 for clothing and the like. In the autumn, for example, we had to re-bought several applications during the year with a supplementary proposal and have to shift from clothing to diesel. At some point I felt that it could not be that the officials and the fire brigade commander are doing each other work and that the whole thing is not efficient, and we have said: Every group's flat-rate budget is supposed to work, they're going to run, and we're going to see exactly how it works. The People in the individual groups have enjoyed being enthusiastic, and in total we have managed to save something. I think you are on the same path with the global budget, with all the advantages and disadvantages. I believe that it is a forward-looking and correct path, which is described here, that there is more self-reliability and scope, but also more control and more opportunities to review from the side of Parliament, from the National Council. It will be important to specify targets, but also to evaluate them continuously. These objectives need to be decided in this context, in such a way that we too are heard by the opposition and can influence the whole thing. But it will also be important to question the objectives. In order to make this possible, it will be up to this budget service to work efficiently and effectively and to provide us with information – information that is correct and not influenced by the government parties so that we can work forward-looking. However, if we now decide on a new institution again and again, a new task group has been assigned, and in the background, each of us repeatedly speculates on the administrative reform and speaks again and again of the big savings measures, I would like to make a very small comment on this: In our small community, with all these measures, the budget and many other things have managed to save 0.3 of our four administrative staff. I am convinced that it will also be possible in the ministries to put in place small measures to achieve savings targets.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4674	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenecker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4695	Mr President. Estimated State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, For five years, this budgetary reform has been debated and worked on. Today we have the second stage, shortly before the decision is taken. You know, two days ago at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, it has not looked forward to that, but the intensive negotiations have led to significant changes which, from the external evaluation to the formulation of the budget service to certain rights granted to Parliament, are quite a step forward. I think that this budgetary reform and the current legislative matter can certainly help – and, as I hope, will – that the use of the funds is efficient and that the pursuit of the objectives can be more consistent. That's a meta target. A number of objectives and levels are more concrete, as is the case under § 14 of the Strategy Report, which also concerns the pursuit of the objective of actual equality between women and men. There is a key to this objective of equality between women and men, and that is, revenue and expenditure in the budget. The budget debates are always so beautiful: The budgets are the policy cast in figures. – You have to see it as well. Of course, revenue and expenditure have an impact on equality between women and men, but if there is a political commitment to this very objective of equality, this objective must be based on the structure of revenue and expenditure. pursue consistently. There is a bulky term for this, which is also used internationally, namely gender budget analyses. This has been working on since the 1990s. I would like to give you some examples from the international field, from the UN, from the OECD, from the World Bank working with these instruments – to work very consistently. Now, of course, you can ask: One is the equality aspect, but are there other aspects? – I can assure you that OECD and the World Bank are very interested in the economic figures. There is precisely the fact that in economies where the Gap gender is particularly large, the growth of gross domestic product is much lower than in others. There is the fact that the chances of future generations are all the worse, the greater the gender Gap. These are facts that are given and which ultimately need to be fought in this form. You know, Austria is not really at the top of the gender equality ranking – on the contrary, the figures are partly embarrassing. Where do you think you're going about spending revenue streams? - Because I'm seeing the colleague, the managing director of the AMS in the district of Braunau: [[in the direction of the Abg. Hagenhofer looking]] As you know, expenditure in the AMS sector is targeted at certain requirements and, of course, has an impact on women's unemployment, on women's employment rates. That is exactly what we need to pay attention to. Or also for the revenue structures: Of course, different approaches to tax reform have an impact on gender equality. This is the difference if you say here that the donation or the profit-free amount will be increased. So this is an area where we have to start. I believe that this gender budget analysis is an approach, a good instrument in this New Public Management and in this effective management – and now also a part of this draft law. Nevertheless, we know that this commitment to gender budget analysis has been since 1. January 2009 exists. There are no concrete implementation steps so far; the first steps are planned for 2012/13. A central issue for Parliament, and in particular for all the Members of Parliament and Ministers who are fighting for the objective of equality between women, must be: Is the topic Gender Budget Analysis academic exercise or does it become politically relevant? In order to make it politically relevant, we have today also tabled an amendment – it has already been distributed and is before you – on the issue of the fact that § 68 not only is the issue of impact control an important point, but also, in particular, the issue of equality control, and in this form, it is precisely the objective of equality policy in the budget as well. I can only tell you: The bill will not be a free letter and no guarantee that something will go on in this matter. We all working on gender budget analyses, whether it be in Upper Austria, Vienna or Salzburg City, know it's hard, hard work. If we want to do something in this area, it also means working with all the ministries, working with all the countries, sharing experience, because I know from my experience in Upper Austria: We owe it to the dedicated commitment of officials and employees of the country of Upper Austria that there actually comes life in, that it will come alive and will contribute to the goal of the budget It is also possible to focus on equality, and indeed to achieve it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4770	The amendment has just been supported sufficiently, was explained in its rough outlines, is related to matter, was also explained in accordance with § 53 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall be distributed and negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4844	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4865	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, with this federal law on the management of the federal budget, or federal budget law, we have a modern law in negotiation, which is also very positive and carried along by the opposition. If one has followed the statements made by the opposition speakers before and has heard that it is a good rule, a good budget rule, that this law is epochal, then as a member of the government groups, one must almost think about whether we have done something wrong. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Neubauer and Tadler.]] No, but it won't be, but quite the contrary: I think it was the constructive work done for it. I'm allowed to be Jacob. Mr President-in-Office of the Committee, as well as the chairmen of the political groups, the budget speakers, I can also say that there has been a real effort. There are also these efforts in other areas, but here one has really tried to achieve something reasonable together. It has become a modern law that we will now decide. This law includes new forms of accounting, accompanying control also during the year – which has so far been possible only in approaches to the quarterly reports and will be easier in the future. The principles of sustainability, transparency, multi-annuality are, I believe, very important points, which are contained in this law and where we can say that this is suitable for the future. This increase in opportunities for the individual departments, for the individual experts, will, I believe, have a positive impact. In the past, we have occasionally had the situation that the budget at the end of the year has not been exhausted in a specialist area or in an approach, and then you have necessarily had to do the corresponding issue somewhere because otherwise you got less budgeted there in the following year. – But now it pays off that you can be economical, if you can also transfer the funds to the next year and then use it again in your own resort. Parliament has made arrangements for its increased participation in the budget service in Parliament. I hope that this will not only become a device where officials are working again, but that it will really be an instrument for Members through which they also get the information they need. However, even if there is a great deal of cooperation here as a Parliament, it will be necessary to seek cooperation with the budget section of the Ministry of Finance in the future and to cooperate well there. It will be important to find a suitable set of rules for this budget service. More participation means more responsibility as well. Now it is important that we also work well, that we write good figures, that we also use the means of taxation according to the principles of economy, economy and effectiveness. A responsible handling of the taxpayers is just the important thing. We need the regulation as a mechanism, but in principle we need to proceed according to these principles, specifically. I recognize the future-oriented work that has been done. And if a unanimous decision is taken today, I believe that it is also an important signal to the executive that Parliament not only sets out general budget figures, but also that we all will respect the efficiency of implementation. I would therefore ask for your consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4925	Next, Mr. Ing. Gartlehner. It is also set a speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4947	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! As a long-term delegate, I have known the debate on budgetary law and budgetary structural reforms since the mid-1990s. At the time, there have also been attempts to introduce reforms here, in accordance with the model of the German Committee on Budgets, which, however, have always failed to ensure that the power of this so-called Committee on Budgets in Parliament would have become all too great. That is why at the time we had many enemies in our own Members' ranks among the committee presidents who did not really like to see this, and that is why there has never been anything out of it. . I would just like to mention this briefly, because this point has already been boldly edited by my colleague today. I believe that there has been a very good innovation, a very good work done by the individual leaders of the political groups with the officials of the Ministry of Finance. It is a very pleasant debate because, in fact, everyone feels a certain satisfaction that something is going on here. And I am also very optimistic that it will improve the quality of the parliamentary debate in the area of finance and budget in the future, because of course those who will work in this subcommittee, in this Standing Subcommittee, will gain much in competence. And, of course, this has a positive impact on parliamentary debate and culture as a whole. In this sense, of course, I am very pleased that this unanimous decision is being taken today. I also believe that in the European comparison we have chosen a very innovative design here, and I am also optimistic that after two, three years of experience with increasing competence, including in the home, further steps of reform will automatically occur. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e4977	Next speaker: Mrs Hagenhofer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5000	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If you just want to say it, you can say: From camera lists to federal budget management, which more than meets the requirements of time. – But behind these simple words is a huge project, really a huge project, which includes great achievements and which is a challenge for all staff. After experiencing that we – and it has already been said today – had to quickly consume in December the money that was thought to us so to speak, so that we could not get less in the next year, we already – and I know this very well at my regional office – have the possibility that we can't continue to use our resources. This takes away the pressure and brings more meaning to the whole thing. As someone who works with it, I find this particularly pleasing and, I say now, challenging, because you have to start planning for the next year already in the middle of the year. Then, as we say in the AMS, there is already a need to make forward-looking course planning for regional administrations or business offices. We are already there – Mrs Lichtenecker, you have mentioned this – and we can already look very closely at it, and we also have to look very closely at the fact that as many funding is being used for women as for men. And we also have the task, the political mission, that those agencies that do not yet provide the share should make the share. So there's already a nationwide comparison. The controlling is already happening. The controlling for this will still have to be designed, but from this point of view it is already such that we can reroute again in the middle of time. So if we see that the plans are not precise, then we can still relocate them in the middle of the year and move on to focus. There was no such thing at all in the past! And this is really a very responsible task, but also one, I say, refreshing task, because we can also work well with this instrument, which we decide here today and which should finally indicate the direction for 2013 so to speak. On the one hand, it is not easy for the staff – you have to say that, that is really a quantum leap – to accept the new law, but it is also – and I want to say that at the end – everyone, and I would like to say that, of course, I would like to include section head Dr. Steger, to thank them for first of all, that they have motivated the people or the employees so much that they will be flexible, that they will stick to the matter, and that, so to speak, they will continue the thoughts as well. It is also a challenge – and I see it now – for us as a Parliament, but also a challenge for the government that the overall framework conditions required by this new budget law are also provided to the staff. We ourselves must always be very critical of that. Finally, I would like to say that I do not feel discouraged to all those who work with it who want flexibility, so to speak, because often every second month a change occurs. And I wish all of us that, with what we decide today, we can find the success that Europe is already prophesying about, namely being the best-practice leader, but also the best-practice holder. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5052	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5073	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would also like to expressly appreciate the very subject-oriented work already mentioned at the beginning by the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Jakob Auer. This subject-oriented work is good for the reputation of politics and is also good for this House. The budget is the policy cast in figures – this sentence is gladly used, said and written. The aim of the new budgetary law is to make this more comprehensible and to answer the question: In fact, do the resources used mean what was wanted or intended to do? The committees are available to the newly created budget service of Parliament, the house – experts here in the house – for information, for information. That strengthens Parliament. The increased obligation of information from the Ministry of Finance also strengthens the House, and this increased transparency, as I believe, this public is very much accepted here in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, many have spoken in committee and are speaking here in plenary of a historic budgetary reform. I think that the new budgetary law offers many new opportunities for the members of this House, but also for the members of the Federal Government. They thus have the opportunity to present their work, their impact-oriented work accordingly and to reject unscrupulous criticism accordingly. The implementation of this budgetary reform is in our hands. The first steps have been taken four years ago, and it will not go from today to tomorrow. The second stage of the budgetary reform is based on a broad consensus, broad agreement. It is the concern of the opposition groups as well as of the government groups. The Austrian budgetary reform does not need to hide an international comparison. And in the end, I am convinced that it will prove itself in practice as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5116	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5138	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I think that is a good thing for Parliament. The first stage of the budgetary reform has been since 1. January 2009 in force, and the second, which will enter into force in 2013, we decide today. It's the next step and it's a paradigm change, a real reorientation, because we switch from input orientation to effect orientation. Finally, this is a change which also means a reorganisation in the parliamentary process, an opportunity for greater transparency and better control, which we should use as a self-confident Parliament. I am very glad that a five-party agreement has been reached on this important policy position. So thank you to all those involved. have been working! It is a good signal, just after a controversial discussion like that on the morning, that in such an important matter Parliament can also go together. The Budget Committee has worked intensively on this second stage of the budgetary reform and has taken a number of findings that will be relevant in the interpretation and implementation of the law. I would like to make a few points. The impact targets. – A key principle: Away from the input orientation, to the effect of the means used. Special importance will be attached to the target formulation in the future. In order to control targets, they must be sufficiently clearly defined. This means that the objectives of scale, content and time reference must be clearly defined in the business sector. This will be of great importance in the future, and this will also require the Budget Committee and Parliament to do more in the future. In this process, not only will there be an audit check as before – this is and remains the task of the Court of Auditors – but it will be introduced as a steering and controlling instrument, which provides for monitoring in the implementation of the objectives. It will provide the opportunity to complete a multi-annual resource, target and performance plan, which will give the heads of the budget leaders much more flexibility because reserves can now be created. The shopping panic at the end of the year can be lost. This will also ensure improved and more effective use of resources. On the transitional provisions: The transition from old to new budgetary law must be ensured in an comprehensible way. Of course, what applies to businesses in the economy must also be a duty for the Republic, namely: Of course, the principle of balance sheet continuity must also apply to the League. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is still much to be done until the entry into force of this second stage, which will be effective by 2013: Assessment of properties, adaptation of the software in the Ministry of Finance and in the other ministries and training of the staff involved in the implementation, and much more. The budget service will also be set up here in the house. And there will also be some stumbling stone to overcome. With this decision, we are taking a big step in modernising federal budget law: away from the camera list to double accounting, to a cost and performance bill and to a controlling. If the decision is taken with the agreement of all parties, it is also a good sign for a working-age parliament. It will be up to us to fulfill the new rules with life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5202	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5223	Mr State Secretary Arbitrator! High house! Allow me to address four points of this second budgetary reform. One point – my previous speaker, Mr Kuzdas, has already mentioned it – concerns the objective and the target definition. I think that's gonna be a big deal. demand to design the target definition in such a way that it is actually recognizable and comprehensible. A key point of this direction of impact of this new budgetary law is transparency, not only transparency for us sitting here in this House, but transparency for the public, for taxpayers and taxpayers, so that they know what results have been achieved with what means of taxation have been used. I think that is a very important point of this reform. The second aspect, which is also particularly important to me in terms of impact orientation, is gender budgeting. Mr Lichtenecker has already mentioned this point. We have already included Gender Budgeting in the Constitution. With the acquisition into budgetary law, Gender Budgeting is actually actually being introduced – that is what you can say – because so far it is pilot projects that are running as you know. The starting point of gender budgeting is that the overall public budget increases the impact on equality between women and men. In other words, budgetary policy, the concrete budget must be aligned in such a way that the effects of priorities and the distribution of resources increase equal opportunities for women and men. I think that the new service for us parliamentarians, the so-called budget service, which has been mentioned a few times today, is an important institution, especially as regards gender budgeting. Two months ago, a survey on women in politics was held in this House. We have talked about a lot of measures that are very important that women in politics can also shape and guide the affairs of women in our country. Therefore, it will be our task to provide the gender budgeting with appropriate qualitative criteria. – That seems to me to be an important point. The second important point is a corresponding controlling, because the controlling instruments for gender budgeting are – as I think – a little different from the general budgetary control functions. I very much hope that the budget service will focus on gender budgeting and the support of Members here in the House. We may be able to use the competences of the Interministerial Working Group on Gender Mainstreaming/Budging as experts. I think that would be a huge gain for this house. I would very much like to see these competences made available to us. The fourth aspect, which seems to me to be very important, is the merger of results and resource management, because this also means a broad homogeneity of budget and staff responsibilities. This means, in turn, that administrative responsibility and greater competence must be further delegated to very different places. This, I hope, will lead to a whole new culture in the Austrian administration. More responsibility will also be delegated to people who engage in their activities with much commitment and, therefore, more competences will be exercised. This is actually an essential foundation for an administrative reform, which is then carried by the people in this administration. I know a lot of people in the Austrian administration who are willing to carry out these tasks with a lot of commitment. I would also like to take this speech today to the opportunity, not only of all those who have taken part in this budgetary reform. have contributed to thanking, but also above all, the people in the administration who have a great new challenge ahead of them. However, I am convinced that the majority will accept this challenge with great enthusiasm. I should like to thank all those colleagues.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5287	Mr Steier has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5308	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already carried it out, and the second stage of budgetary reform from 2013 onwards will change a lot positively: clear budget structures, impact orientation and the implementation of gender budgeting. Among the key elements is also the dopian approach in the field of accounting and accounting, which, in addition to a financing budget, also includes a earnings and assets budget. The first stage of the budgetary reform has already been in force since the beginning of the year and, in addition to binding spending limits, brings more budgetary flexibility for four years through a reserve regime within the defined spending limits. The proposed direction of action in the second stage of the budgetary reform will enable a much more efficient budgetary policy. Money and personnel capacities for each budget area had already been defined, but it was not clear what was actually done by the defined resources. In the future, the budget will have to be defined in terms of the effects and benefits to be achieved with the defined resources. This means that, in addition to financial issues, the practical benefits for citizens are also at the centre of the consideration. Each department will be responsible for the operation control itself. For cross-sectoral matters and as support, the BKA is the coordinating body. Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of the discussions in the Committee on Budgets, it was also criticised that the role of Parliament and the Committee on Budgets was less important in the future because parts of responsibility are now being given to the ministers of expertise. This is contrary to the fact that the honourable Member here in the House, through their approval of global budgets, on advances and on the attachment of reserves and for the corresponding controlling, will be given and applied more participation and responsibility in the future. This new role will have to be filled with thought. At the same time, the planned own budget office with its own staff and own expertise will have a high importance in the parliamentary budget controlling. This budget service will support the committees and MEPs in their analysis and discussions on the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the new budgetary law is certainly a paradigm change and also a cultural change. A large number of regulations are in place to ensure maximum transparency, participation and control. The implementation will be of central importance at all levels so that the great throw can also succeed. A warm thanks to all those who have contributed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5357	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft Federal Budget Act 2013 in 578 of the Supplements. Mr Lichtenecker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional amendment or amendment. First of all, I shall have to vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals referred to above, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of the Auer, Krainer, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to § 50 para. 3 refers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – It was adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Dr Lichtenecker, colleagues, who are referring to § 68. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on § 68 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to these provisions to a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary motion of Members, Mr Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President, concerning the insertion of a new paragraph. 24 in § 121. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this supplementary request to be a sign of confirmation. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are also in third reading for this draft law, to give a sign of approval. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bucher, fellow Members, on the limitation of the re-indebtedness of federal, regional and local authorities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the draft federal law amending the Federal Budget Act in 579 of the Supplements. Mr Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment which refers to an amendment to the Z2 of the draft law. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Members Auer, Krainer, colleagues and others. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this in order to have a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Service Procedure Act, the Contracting Servants Act and the Wage Act, together with the title and receipt in 580 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:53:24]] 4. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (488, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Officers Act 1948, the Law on Legal and Public Prosecutors' Service, the Travel Fees Act, the Law on Pensions in 1989, the Pension Law in 1965, the Federal Staff Representative Law, the Federal Law on Equal Treatment, the Federal Employment Law, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Laws of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the Law on the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on Service law Novelle 2009) (533 d.a.) 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 829/A by Mr Werner Herbert, colleagues on a federal law with the ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website No. 54/1956, amended (534, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5542	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Herbert is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5569	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! We are dealing with two legislative instruments under this item on the agenda. One is the Service Law Novelle 2009, and the second is my request regarding the replacement-free deletion of § 13c Abs. 2 Wages Act. I can begin by explaining this provision a little bit to give you a background to why this provision is so dear to me. In concrete terms, this is the definition of the summation of sick leaves for public servants. In practice, this provision has proved to be extremely problematic, because it has not taken into account in that originally intended provision a limitation of unwarranted absences due to suspected disease. An associated steering effect, which is perhaps originally based on this law, could not in fact be achieved. In this context, I would like to bring to your attention the current data of Statistics Austria, which indicate that 12,7 days of sick leave per employee were in the public service in 2003, and in 2008 it was 12,5 days of sick leave. This means a hardly noticeable variation, which can be seen positively and speaks for the public service and for the staff. It has proved in practice that this provision has actually been ineffective. The question also arises as to the extent to which it does not appear to be of any concern to the public to the extent that, in the course of an accident that is not indebted to itself or to a disease that is not negligently caused by this aggregation of the sick days, in particular when it comes to a long recovery process, additional negative effects in financial form, in addition to any loss of salary that may occur, in any event. So this provision has proved to be pointless. Therefore, the request is based on the fact that this provision is deleted without replacement. The second provision to which I would like to lose a few words is that of the new Service Law 2009. I can say that the FPÖ does not in principle reject this government proposal. There are in addition to some editorial adaptations, and besides a few - I say - gender-compliant language schemes there are quite positive aspects, improvements or also the elimination of injustices that have so far been present in these legislative instruments. For example, I may refer to § 39 of the Travel Fees Regulation, which has apparently found access to this legal matter on a free initiative, or also to the continuation of the increased mileage. Well, that's basically good. There's nothing to do with that. The main problem, however, is as often in detail. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: That's the devil!]] I have to tell you that there is a provision that is particularly in our stomach. This is the possibility that in the future also recognised refugees or so-called subsidiary protected persons will also meet the appointment requirements for a public service activity. I think that this is an inadmissible extension of this basic condition for an activity for the Republic of Austria, because it should not only be the existence of an Austrian citizenship, but also a special position of trust and a special reference to the Republic of Austria and the State. I dare to doubt whether these recognised refugees or subsidiary protected persons can actually meet these particular requirements and this particular emotional commitment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second thing that we have not noticed is that in this law convoluted – so you have to say – is that the rate of women is increased from 40 to 45 percent. I think this is an unmistakable measure, because we believe that this continuation and even extension of this measure will not in any way fulfil the objective of equal opportunities between male and female public servants! [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Prammer and Lueger]] [[Abg. May. Schwentner:... 35 years!]] Nor do I think that it is positive for women to be able to resort to quota women here instead of taking the actual evidence that effective equality is actually taken into account. [[Abg. Lueger: What does that mean?]] I think that this provision is more counterproductive in this sense and is also more likely to be viewed as counterproductive in the field of the promotion of women in the public service. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schwentner: Make amendments!]] The last point I would like to address here is the state of public service salary. In this respect, I think that the 0.9 percent were far below the private sector accounts. I am already aware that in the meantime the state has only a very small wallet, but I think that the many officials and contract staff working for the Republic can't do anything for the mismanagement and for the bad economy of this federal government, they can't do anything for the misplacement of money while saving their own staff. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] I think we have once again failed to look specifically at the various tasks of the different professional groups in the field of public service. [[Abg. Wöginger:... the other one is about 30 billion!]] I think that an executive has a completely different job as a contract servant in an office, and this situation has once again not been taken into account in this salary settlement. Therefore, it would have been better to make a taskful remuneration here also with a view to social staggering, but this was once again missed. I'll come to the end. We have tabled a request for a separate vote on this Novelle Service Law because we believe that this is a good approach to be able to distinguish exactly what provisions are suitable and which are not actually worthy of support. I can therefore invite you not only to support this request for separate vote, but also to the request concerning the abolition of § 13c para. 2 to approach salary law – in the sense of our executive officials, in the sense of the entire civil service of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5684	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. I'll set the clock up to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5705	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There is a traditional social partners solution that has been developed for a very long time. Those who really look at the results of the negotiations to which I congratulate, both sides of the BDG-Novelle, see that these have social policy, women's policy approaches; I am saving myself now addressing the individual points. Important – I just want to take one point regarding the executive – was the question of travel fees because no one understood that if two colleagues sit in a radio car, she gets one but the other doesn't. I think you can see that a lot of things have been aimed at fairness and justice here. – I thank you very much for this and congratulate everyone on it. In the last few hours, I could almost say – we have had this in recent decades, when I look at my colleague, Mr Neugebauer, not only once, but more often, that the salary negotiations have been very long – there have been further results, and I am therefore allowed to submit here the amendment tabled by Mr Pendl and Mr Neugebauer to the BDG-Novelle, which includes the salary conclusion for 2010. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Together! Together!]] I know that it is always difficult when something like this happens to 33 pages in second reading, Madam President, but this is not possible because the salary is having an impact on all seasons. I cannot understand the argument made by Mr Herbert, because there is also a social component in the payroll. The proposed scheme has an impact on the lower incomes of 1.2 per cent and is penetrating upwards. I myself took part in these negotiations very often and for a very long time: We've negotiated all the variants! You can criticize everything – I think we all know that. I think we can only congratulate both on the points in the law of the service and on the financial statements. [[Abg. Head: Who?]] That is a proper solution, that is a proper determination, I believe, and a clear commitment. However, I would like to remember, because this is a big concern to me – and I always do so at the BDG-Novelle when the year comes to an end – that we should see public service as a whole, not only as a cost factor, because the public service provides valuable services for all in this Republic. I would like to express my and our thanks to all public servants from this point of view. Madam President, I should also like to thank the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate and our parliamentary staff. For us, all of this is a matter of course. Whether it's 9 o'clock in the morning or 1 o'clock in the night: everything has to work! I believe that it is up to us to be grateful from time to time also to our staff, to the public service, which is a guarantee of legal certainty, but also to the economic location of this Republic. Thank you and all the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e5763	The amendment has just been presented in the cornerstones and is explained on the basis of the scope according to § 53 para. 4 GOG. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7011	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7033	Madam President. Minister! High house! I can join the officials in thanking Mr Pendl. The officials are working diligently and well in this state, I would like to hold this here. Now to the law, and there I can no longer join much of what has been said before. I would like to go into detail in relation to the ban on mobbing, which I consider to be good in the public service, but which on the other hand is a little too inaccurate. When I think of Mobbing, I think of the mail: If one considers how one has dealt with the post officials that one has no longer needed, then, I think, the state should start with itself and check this mobbing thing with itself! Then he might insist that he's wrong here in many areas. Ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the salary of 0,9 per cent of officials – that is, a little more for lower incomes – I would like to add a little bit to you here. In the newspaper “ÖsterREICH” I read yesterday 500 € increase for each official! [[Abg. Neugebauer: This is “good” informed!]] – This is, of course, a total nonsense. If you break this down, I figured it out, unfortunately that's just the cut. This would mean a basic income of €3 540 a month, 14 times a year, that many, many officials don't even have. I would like to give you the example of an executive official with 15 years of service, who earns approximately €1 700 gross per month: This will be more than €15.30 per month, or €214.20 per year – and is thus far away from the 500 € mentioned above. Or, if I mentioned the mail earlier: A post office with 1 300 € gross then comes to 11.70 € per month and 163,80 € per year more. It would be better for me to go up there by introducing a zero wage round with the big salaries of the Bones – if I think of a section manager with 8 860 € – and giving the small officials much more. That would be the right step, that is the demand of the BZÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What also greatly surprised me was that pensioners had graduated before the closing of the assets. I think you should first decide on the assets and then make the pension adjustments. I believe that there would also be a need for action by the government. Mrs. Minister, you know my old demand for an executive service law for executive officials. In particular, these are always subject to special dangers and special situations, and I think it would be appropriate for us to give these officials a reasonable basic wage, so that they can not rely on the additional fees that they really depend on in order to survive, but can go into service with rest. – Today, an executive has to pay some 100 overtimes and more for an adequate salary, with which he can spend his family, perhaps four-members, and afford the home and survive. That can't be it, Mrs. Minister! Here again my appeal concerning the executive service law: Get in there! It is an old demand, and I would like to ask you here once again to move forward. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I believe that only retired officials also do a good job, especially in the executive sector. We know there's a lot of burn-out diseases! Mr Herbert has already referred to it, namely those sick people's collection paragraphs, which are very disadvantaged to the executives who are really exposed to many dangers and often also suffer physical damage. These then come innocently to the handcushion because if they're sick for more than a month, they get a mini-content and don't know how to get through. This idiotic clause, I say, has been changed. We will absolutely support that. I would also like to address the women's quota which seems to me to be too high in leadership positions at 45 percent. – Ms Minister! We currently have a women's rate of about 12 percent in the executive. If I change this to 45 percent women in leadership positions, that's a disproportionate, which is not true and would be a preference for women. It would be just to introduce these 12 percent into leadership positions. Then we really would have the cut that there should actually be according to the employees. Then I would like to take a brief look at the travel fee regulations – and I would like to refer to the negative effects in the overall convoy. Here we shall put forward a request for separate vote in order to bring out the positive effect of this law, which is not entirely successful. We will be happy to agree to this. Finally, I would like to make a statement. It has just become known to me today that the executive will again be heavily affected by austerity measures: 540 vehicles will be saved in the near future. [[Abg. Booker: This is unheard of!]] I think that's crazy! Considering that yesterday Mrs Bures was sitting here and saying: More executive on the road!, then you save here in the wrong place. This is the wrong gift from the Federal Government to our police officers, to our security. – Please, do There's something here!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7107	Mrs. Dr. Karl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7128	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The current government template amends the civil service law, the contract service law and a whole series of other laws. In part, these are reactions to the Judicature or to EU directives, in part they are about eliminating factually unwarranted differences between officials and contract staff, but in part they will also respond to new phenomena, such as mobbing. For example, it is clarified that a mobbing, which is not covered by the Federal Equal Treatment Act, constitutes a breach of service. To this end, a clearly formulated obligation for staff to deal with each other respectfully and respectfully is laid down. Changes are also made in the right of officials and contract staff. According to applicable law, officials are entitled to an increased holiday entitlement, i.e. a entitlement of six weeks instead of five weeks, whenever they can either obtain a certain income or have a service age of 25 years. An increased holiday dimension can be justified very well with a higher need for recreation by longer employed officials; of course, it is difficult to justify in the event of an increased remuneration. Accordingly, the increased holiday entitlement is to be granted only for 25 years of service. This is also in line with the rules applicable to contract staff and other workers, so there is a harmonisation between officials, contract staff and other employees. Harmonization between officials and contract staff shall also be carried out in respect of their duties. However, the right of vacation for officials and contract staff is also amended in another point: The unconsumed entitlement of officials and contract staff expires one year after the year in which it was created. In this respect, officials and contract staff are even poorly employed as workers and employees. in which the expiry period is one year longer than for officials and contract staff. For officials and contract staff, there is only the possibility of extending the expiry period by one year if holiday consumption was not possible for service reasons. This possibility of a one year postponement of the expiry period is now extended to cases of justified absence from the service due to a disease or an accident and the ban on employment under the Mother Protection Act. The present government proposal also refers to the tender law. Indeed, the 2007 Service Law Novelle confirmed the obligation to disclose in each call for tender the weighting of which special knowledge and skills are taken into account in the assessment of applicants. However, this scheme has been introduced only temporarily and has now been evaluated. The result of the evaluation is that the weighting of the special knowledge and skills in the tender text has a very positive effect on women's opportunities in terms of transparency of the procedure. It is therefore now planned to extend the scheme indefinitely. Finally, it should be noted that a change in the Federal Equal Treatment Act has been made in connection with the existence of sexual harassment. As evidenced by experience and scientific research, many women have to deal with the injustice they have experienced and then decide on a procedure for validating claims for sexual harassment. The one-year period currently in force is too small to allow for an extension of three years. All in all, this 2. Service Law Novelle 2009 is therefore a whole set of different regulations that are important and necessary. Finally, I would like to return to Mr Pendl's statement that the public service is doing important work. I can only underline this: The public service is doing important work from which we all benefit, and is, as Mr Pendl has said, so that guarantee for legal certainty and thus guarantee for the Austrian economic location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7183	Now comes Mrs Mag. Musiol speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7205	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We did not agree to this law in committee, we will not agree to it today at second reading – I explain why – but at third reading we will agree to it, not on the basis of the law and the presentation, but on the basis of the salary negotiations that will be agreed with. – Only so much about our voting behaviour; I would like to say something about Mr Herbert’s request. We are not going to agree, although there are some rules that we are quite positive about, so to speak, and especially the rules in the sense of women's policy, but my colleague Schwentner will do so. We cannot therefore agree, because something is regulated here, which we criticised yesterday in various materials, namely Article 20 para. 2 B-VG – says: the obligation to inform, which is granted here to the Supreme Institutions in relation to independent organs. Here we see the same thing as the European Commission, for example, in a reasoned opinion as regards the Data Protection Commission, that the question arises – I quote – “as an institution which also has to control the Supreme Institutions can act ‘in complete independence’ if the bodies to be controlled are granted a right’ to ‘instruct on all matters of management’, without even mentioning the purpose of this information’. It is precisely because our criticism, which we have already been in the course of the introduction of Article 20 para. 2, and then we were in good company. For example, the current popular lawyer Kostelka has also seen that there is an undifferentiated form of obligation to provide information here. Say: All ministers can obtain information from these institutions on all business cases. It is very likely that independence is at risk here. But, of course, certain bodies which have certain tasks, which serve certain purposes, according to which they may be designed, can act differently here, and that is what we are missing here. On your request, Mr Herbert: In terms of content, we have agreed to the Committee and will be voting today, because there are social hardships here, but it is exciting that this request comes from you, because it is a regulation introduced under black and blue. Now it's true that You often want to refuse or discuss your authorship or your successor to the FPÖ here. In the specific case, Mr Graf, who is a prominent member of your party and your group, agreed to this request, and so there is even concrete identity of persons. Nevertheless: In terms of content, we will give you the right and we will agree. In third reading, we will agree to the whole package. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7247	Next speaker: Ms Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7268	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, I respect the different approaches to the contents of this Novelle Service Law and I would like to say that very exciting times are behind us, not only exciting staff representation elections, but also exciting and partly power-consuming salary negotiations that have ended well. The more than 150 points which this Service Law Novelle includes have also been negotiated in good understanding and in good social partnership manner, but also in cooperation with all the departments and all those who have contributed there. Against the background – and I do not say anything new – and I believe that we all agree here – that we have already followed the consolidation path in the budget negotiations when the staff plan was negotiated, we are following this government template with the requirement that by 2013 some 2,000 planning posts should be reduced, which, of course, means that for colleagues working in the public service, we have to deal with equally much or even more work with fewer staff. Therefore: great respect and recognition from my side! I think I can speak here in all our names. Then: It is done by all public servants, whether contract staff or officials, excellent work. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Neugebauer.]] Mr Karl has already said a lot, and I can only take a few points out, because over 150 areas cannot be referred to. It has already been suggested that many technical adaptations are also the content of this novel. I would like to present just a few points that seem particularly important to me, so that it doesn't take too long – we've been working in depth on this novel – and I don't take any consideration during the ride. First: Mobbing ban. – There we are pioneers in the public service. I wish that the private sector would follow this line that we could also get into the law on equal treatment for the private sector, namely a ban on mobbing as a breach of service from 1. January 2010 because we all know that it has long been no more cavalier crime or, better said, has never been one and that it can lead to real serious impairments for the employees. Mobbing doesn't know gender, it can affect men and women alike. In particular, however, it concerns the quality of life of the employees. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Neugebauer.]] It's really a milestone, I mean, and we've been here, like in many cases, pioneers. It may result from warnings up to fines, but also in terminations or redundancies, if such service is violated in such a way that there is such severe disturbances that action must be taken. I also think it is important to make it possible for our staff to apply for leadership positions in view of the demands that are increasing. We need very well-trained employees. They must therefore have access to continuing education and training in order to gain the ability to be a manager. Due to the fact that the service provider now has to offer his managers mandatory training, we can ensure a comprehensive access to managerial training. This is also a point that is very, very important: that, regardless of whether there are employees, this comprehensive access is given. There will be stricter rules for the employment of public servants. This applies equally to officials and contract staff. This is in the discretion of the individual departments. We were of the opinion that this is the better way because we assume that the individual departments know better where the priority areas and interests lie. It is possible to determine by regulation which areas of secondary employment are classified as delicate or less sensitive, which are more or less desirable. I believe that the women's rate is also an important point. I do not want to spread on this anymore, but we have already discussed this in detail in the Committee. Just briefly: Only 12 percent of women in executives are not able to reach 45 percent women in leadership positions from today to tomorrow. To believe that would be naïve. But I can very well picture how many women are employed in the public service. That's already more than 40 percent. I now want to create the opportunity to apply for equal qualifications – I do not prefer anyone; the one who is better will be taken, or the one who is better will be taken – then, if two equal qualifications apply – women have to apply for a position first – as long as a woman is preferable until a certain quota is reached. It's no longer about it and it's no less. I do not think anyone will see or feel himself as a “Quot woman ” in this sense. [[Complementary of the Abg. Csörgits.]] Further point: I believe that it is only fair if, as has been said today, the amount of salary is not automatically decisive for whether or not someone more holiday or not, but the number of years of service. We're taking off a privilege now. That means: If a salary exceeds a certain amount, it is no longer automatically such that more holidays can be claimed. I also think it is important – and I say again that I am neither a content nor a personal one, but rather I take the individual points as I have in my paper; there are no personal privileges here – that we want to have more transparency in the call for tenders. In the tendering procedure, it is fixed in the service law that skills and knowledge as they are weighted must also be made visible so that we can better assess who brings what good qualities or who brings what leadership qualities. It is also nice that the accident on the way to the service crash has finally succeeded. There is now harmonisation, approximation of contract staff to officials, but also to the private sector, where the accident on the way between the home and the service deposit is now also a service accident. Finally, it is important to me to say that I am pleased that we have been able to extend the kilometre money, since we have many commuters and commuters – not only for the public service, but that is only in the service law novelle with inside – for a year. Finally, a few words on the payroll for public servants. I mean, we can all be happy with it. At the last round of the negotiations, the Minister of Finance has not even confirmed, but several times, that the increase from originally 0.7 percent to now 0.9 percent – says: Taxation of inflation – for all public servants plus an increase for smaller incomes, percent higher than for high incomes, is financially, fiscally covered. I think that's how everyone can live well. It is also to be said that it has been the third lowest degree for 40 years, what the public service is about to do, and that we are very economical in dealing with the money compared to the private sector. This is particularly important in times of economic crisis. We said: Okay, we see that purchasing power can be increased for the small income recipients who may spend the money immediately again and do not create it, and that inflation will pay off. Finally, thanks to my staff members of Section III. But thanks also to my employees in my office, in my cabinet. Thanks also to all trade union representatives who have invested a lot of time with us in the last weeks and months not only for the Service Law Novelle, but also for the salary negotiations, each of them wants the best for his side; that is clear. But also to all public servants, whether contract staff or officials, my heartfelt thanks, because they do excellent work on the citizen's behalf for the benefit of all of us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7396	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I announce the following: There has been a short-term desire for more separate voting, which has led us to prepare a new, revised Croquis. Therefore, these two points will only be put to the vote after item 6 in order to be able to take the preparations seriously. I'm already making that known at this point. This means that I will not introduce it because we will end the debate. The next item is Mrs Lueger. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7429	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to take out a few other points of the Novelle Service Law because I think they are just as worth mentioning because they have found entry into the innovation. Everyone is talking about Mobbing, and because everyone is talking about Mobbing, this term is often used inflationaryly. Dispute between colleagues, a shock of the superior or an insolent remark of a colleague is often referred to as mobbing. It is no wonder, therefore, that real victims of Mobbing are often very difficult to find hearing. Those concerned have often experienced very painful experiences and have experienced disadvantages at the workplace. There are also those who have been canceled, for the reason that they have become sick and have not been able to fulfill their service. They became permanently ill, not only physically, but above all also mentally ill. That's why I'm very glad that the first time in this novel is the Mobbing ban is fixed and from 1st time. January of next year should be valid, for for me, Mobbing is a breach of service, and as such it is now also laid down in this law. This is for the first time a breach of the service of the perpetrators, and it can lead to consequences, as Mrs Minister has already said. The fact that managers need further training and, above all, a comprehensive access to managerial training is now also ensured. This is important because managers have ever more difficult tasks to perform in the present time. There are often more tasks to be done with fewer staff, so their situation becomes much, much worse. I am particularly pleased that the women's rate is increased from 40 to 45 percent. Her fears, Mr Herbert, are already caught by the fact that the competition process is becoming a very transparent one. Since knowledge and skills are weighted precisely, I think you really don't have to worry that women are being wrongfully preferred. With regard to the implementation and specifically to the demands our Mrs. Gabi Heinisch-Hosek has repeatedly raised, the public service is an absolute example. If the promotion of women also worked in private enterprises as well as in the public service, and also in the sense that there would be an disclosure of salaries, I think a huge step would be taken. As a further point, I would like to mention the increase in the kilometre. Here, there was a deadline for the 2007 Service Law Novelle to expire at the end of this year, so that a re-establishment was necessary. I am convinced that a good outcome has been achieved in the negotiations between the social partners and the government negotiators on this law, and we will therefore agree to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7496	Mr Windholz. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7520	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, the public service has now increasingly been found in the media – very skilled strategy! The President of the Public Service Union has also used this very skillfully by pulling it into the length. But, in fact, as always, a debate has taken place on the back of public servants. You then chose a brilliant election helper in the person of the Minister of Education, who then brought you further increases in the number of votes in the teacher area. But what is completely missing – and that is why the trade union should have been more concerned – are the big throws that we urgently need in the public service. You hear again and again: We must balance, we must harmonise, there are injustices between officials and contract staff! Quite frankly: We need a new term at all. We need a new right of service and remuneration. We need a strong incentive for the performance that is actually available in the public service. Unfortunately, they are always too short with you God. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because the previous speaker here has put the Mobbing accusation in his mouth, I add the following: Please don't forget the political mobbing! Then: If you don't feel like the red and the black want, maybe it's like Mr. Dr. Haidinger in the Ministry of the Interior. This is the testimony to the fact that there is political mobbing. That's where you've been chatting with anything other than glory. The demand for fair treatment of public service performance is over-ripe. That would be a future strategy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have sub-areas where there is always the hint: There is much better in the private sector! I have referred such a case to the State Secretary Lopatka and to the Minister for Finance, which concerns the area of airport, from which I am a professional source, namely from the customs sector. I'm just saying so much. There are many things I have shown, including that there are constantly 78 hours and more on weekends in one month. At the same time, of course, it has been said that if overtime occurs, it should only be the very cheap one under the week. There is, in fact, a legal gap. All things have been kept free, and unfortunately these things are always decided by desk officials in the ministries that act completely foreign to the detriment of those who love to do their service in the offices outside at fair conditions, but who are largely treated unfairly. At this point, I can bring to the President Neugebauer one of the results of the last human representation elections. There is a group – which I strongly supported – that has a list of names so that there is something else than black and red. Before that, the power ratios were as follows: Of six mandates, three had the FCG and three had the FSG. - Now he's looking at the whole window. [[Abg. Newborn: I always look so dark!]] I hope that this group gets a lot of imitators, because there was no stone left on the other. You have all the time ignored all the proposals, just in the direction of the Minister's Office: Don't change anything, that's all agreed with the staff representative! You represent, in part, not all, but only some, and those who keep directing it in the system. But in this election there was a result to which I can only congratulate. There is a list of names, and it now operates with three out of six mandates, has an absolute majority. Red and black have been put there to the level where they belong. You have lost your absolute majority, and the reds are still represented with a mandate. I hope there's a lot of imitators there. A trend turnaround can only occur if you are willing to give up these strategies, put a fair, modern service right on the table – wherever we have always said, we are ready to negotiate. The preparations for service in the public service already yearn for this day.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7568	Mr Neugebauer, Second President of the National Council, has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7590	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To my previous speaker: Neither my speaking time nor the speaking time of this afternoon would be enough to tell the success of my campaigning group and all the backgrounds, because 6 percent of the absolute majority is a confidence I am very proud of. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I am also proud of the other groups and political groups in my union, which, without reservation, are critical of the trade union movement, because under the rule of co-operation, the overcome of prejudices and ultimately the common responsible action in a democracy are still the most successful solution. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, many aspects have already been attracted by the Novelle Service Law. The Mobbing story reminds me of some calls and debates here. With regard to what the public service is now taking on a standard, Madam President, if we discuss new procedural rules or rules of conduct, we could consider the pioneering role of the public service. The colleagues of the executive do not need to feel resettled by this novel. Mr Pendl has already referred to § 39 RGV. Much more was also mentioned by Mrs Heinisch-Hosek and my previous speakers. What is not in the novel, but what we are currently negotiating intensively, is the consideration of Bachelor's degrees within the meaning of the University Law and the University College Law. We have agreed that we will negotiate this until the summer of the coming year – as well as the current account, i.e. the billing of overtime in money or time. As far as § 13c is concerned, Mr Colleague, this is certainly a handful of people. We have the small issue in our consideration, and if it is worth getting closer to it, we will also carry it over accordingly. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: It's worth it!]] Dear colleague Windholz, to what you said about strategy and tactics, namely maybe we would have harmed the public staff because they are in the media: Well, that's your perception. Public officials are always in the media in such a debate. But what's much worse and what's annoyed by our colleagues – massively annoyed! – is the accompanying music in the form of a supposed privilege debate. Now I can advise your clubman, without attacking him as a person, to take someone in the press service at BZÖ, who is also supporting the things he makes a accusation. If it is said that the bees are a privilege, then I have to say that only someone who has no idea of the structure of collective agreements, but who has no idea at all, because 95 percent of all collective agreements have prejudices – in the public service it is two years, in other areas it is Triennia, with fellow journalists – perhaps some are still present today – there are Quinquennies. - That's nothing new. This is a design of a structure and not a privilege. If Mr Bucher says that in the public service only 40 years of insurance are needed, then only someone who has no idea can have this written, because in the public service the billing starts at 18 years – and not after the end of compulsory schooling. If Mr Bucher lets us say that it is a privilege that we have such high salaries in the public service, then this can only be said by someone who does not know that every fifth employee is academic in the public service, while in the private sector it is only every 27. [[Abg. Bucher: That's right!]] Therefore, there is a completely different salary pyramid. On the recommendation concerning a zero wage round: Dear colleague, not even in areas which can almost no longer afford, there are now collective agreements with zero, because the economic researchers have made it clear to us at the beginning of the negotiations that the current economic deal in Austria is not so deep because, of course, the purchasing power strengthening of the last collective agreements – and also those of the current ones – helps simply to strengthen consumption. [[Abg. Bucher: In Carinthia we did this!]] [[Abg. Bucher: We have two shields: one for the banks and one for the officials! This is a shield for the officials!]] That's not my invention, but I like to record it. That's it! [[Abg. Bookbookers: In Ireland, officials have given up 15 percent! This is solidarity!]] The most funny thing – you would have to laugh if it were not so sad, dear colleague Bucher – is the suggestion of the BZÖ to save 30,000 public servants. Tell me which police officers, which folk school teacher, which nurses, which university professor you want to save! [[Abg. Bucher: I'm talking about the officials...!]] You have to say in the same breath what job reform you are doing, then you can also say with how much staff you bring things over the rounds. As far as remuneration is concerned, ladies and gentlemen: The first speaker, Mr Herbert, meant that there was too little distinction between the professional groups. You know that the training principle in the professional groups is one thing, and the service allowance schemes are the other. – The executives are quite attractive, and this distinguishes them considerably from the other professional groups. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] We have achieved a very reasonable conclusion, which does not allow for a real wage loss, and a social dimension is also included. Mr Bucher, there's a job for you now: The National Service in Carinthia is informed by Mr Landeshuptmann that there is nothing. Perhaps the budget in Carinthia is really as bad as some newspapers are writing. They don't get anything. [[Abg. Booker: But you are there! The head of the party of the ÖVP is there!]] - He's there, too. Mr Martinz also belongs to the same category. What is particularly objectionable, however, is that one even refuses to talk to the Public Service Trade Union in Carinthia! [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: They don't exist in Carinthia!]] I would say that social partnership does not mean not talking to each other but dealing with each other, and in this sense we have also dealt with difficult times. – I thank Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7751	Now comes Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7772	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Greeting God the many visitors! I would like to address once again the women's policy aspects of the present Novelle Service Law. Even if you can't hear a lot from us, Mrs. Minister, you must admit a little impatience to us. I know that you are sometimes impatient in this respect, and I also know that some in plenary can no longer hear the word “Quote”. As Mrs Musiol has pointed out, we very much welcome the women's policy aspects of the novelle. However, very big jumps towards justice and balance have not been achieved, I would say. It sounds good if we now have 45 percent instead of 40 percent quota, but let's look at the section heads, where women are in leadership positions: Of the 90 section heads, only 12 are currently women. That is to say, most resorts – except for a few official exceptions, namely the Federal Ministry of Education, Art and Culture, but also the Constitutional Court – are all far below the 40 percent quota already prescribed. This has been the case since 1993, i.e. in 15 years, it has not succeeded in fulfilling the quota in the management positions even nearly. While some measures are now planned – we welcome measures towards transparency, the equal treatment officer too can deliver an opinion in the future, and there is also an obligation to demonstrate the weighting of special knowledge and skills in the assessment of applicants, as you have already mentioned – this is probably too short as we think. It took several more measures to actually fulfil the quota in the higher areas – otherwise we will have to wait a little longer. As far as the closure of income shears is concerned, there are also many measures announced. However, if we count on it, we will only be able to do so in the next 33 years with the measures announced in the field of equal pay for officials, which are about to go towards equality. That is, in contrast to what Mr Herbert fears from the FPÖ, namely that equality will now somehow be broken over the fence, it will take a few more decades. So I'm rather impatient than skeptical. Where there are fixed figures in terms of salaries, it concerns mainly the men. – You mentioned the pendulums and also the travel fee for police officers. There are 8 per cent women among the police and police, and the opt-out for executives, primarily concerns the salaries of men. That is, where there are fictitious numbers where there is a biterl going towards utopia, where the women and the salaries of women are located, and that is not exactly what I am hoping for. But, as has been said, it is a lot positive about the measures, including in the field of equal treatment, also with regard to the rights of equal treatment agents in the future, but there are nevertheless some “but” in total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7824	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7845	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I too would like to take a few points out of the Novelle Service Law. One point that seems particularly important to me is the fixed mobbing ban. Mobbing happens far too often. The dark number in this area is very high. The victims often do not know a way out, and so it is time to oppose it quickly and massively. Mobbing is not a cavalier crime, ladies and gentlemen, and so this law should also serve to destabilize Mobbing. Mobbing can't be tied to individual industries. It can happen in all situations of professional life, whether in the public service or in the private sector. That is why I think it is extremely important that the Federation should also take on a pioneering role, and I hope that this will be followed by other areas. Another point that I very much welcome, Mr Herbert and Mr Hagen, is the women's quota. Women's quota means that women are preferred exclusively – exclusively, my honourable gentlemen – with equal qualifications. – If women are better, women will be taken immediately, Mr Herbert. The fact that the rate of women is increased from 40 to 45 percent is a milestone for me in terms of gender equality policy. I also hope that there will be a kind of domino effect in the private sector, where unfortunately there is no fixed gender ratio. There are many people in the economy who are at a rate, but many then demand in return the importance of qualified women in the economy. It is now time, ladies and gentlemen, to share the quota together in the 21st century. ==References====External links== As we are now currently on the subject of qualification, I would like to take one more point out of the novel, namely that the service provider is obliged to offer his managers further training. Only in this way, ladies and gentlemen, can we continue to develop, approach and meet international and European standards. All in all, the Novelle Service Law is a successful law, and I am pleased that it can be decided today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7903	Next, Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e7955	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I did not actually want to speak on this matter, but Mr Neugebauer has asked me to do so, so to speak. Mr Neugebauer, we all know, of course, that you are a heavy weight in negotiating. All you represent also appreciate is one thing you need to make clear, namely that the officials are also a little privileged in the hacker scheme. Of course, officials will only be able to use the hacker scheme if they are an official – from the 18th century onwards. ==References====External links== Year of life or later – bring together enough years. However, the fact is that these people, of course, have learned a profession before, so to speak, have made a career with teaching – that is to say, to recognize it – and then have further trained themselves. This is similar to the employees. These times they have acquired there, they can then be paid off by the ASVG insurance, and then they are in civil servants' insurance. – This is an advantage. With 40 years of contributions, they come into the hacker scheme because women and men have the same age of retirement among officials – not in the private sector, where women can go five years earlier, where women with 40 years of contributions and men with 45 years of contributions can benefit from the hacker scheme. The fact is that this is a difference and that it is an advantage for the officials. The next thing is that the officials have a bee's jump every two years. Almost every two years you receive an automatic wage increase of about 3.5 percent, and then each year the other wage increases are added. – That's a huge difference. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Just half too much! The double...!]] Mr Neugebauer, I have practically also conducted the Ist Lohn negotiations in the company, and I have seen, because I was responsible for the employees, how far the employees have drifted away from the workers, because they simply had the bee jumps in between. [[Abg. Bookbooker: No comparison at all!]] After six or eight years, those who were employees, even though they did the same work in operation as their colleagues in the employment relationship, earned much more – although they worked on the same machine. That's a big difference, so a privilege of the officials. – That must be said here too. It's a difference! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Moreover, we have always challenged the privileges of the Austrian National Bank, the Austrian Federal Railways, the ORF and other such institutions, because this is an injustice to those who work in the private sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8015	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. I have already announced that the vote on these two agenda items will be taken after the debate on item 6. Although the Croquis has arrived in the last few minutes, it would be unreasonable for the political groups to vote now – first of all it was not meant, and second of all, no transparency could be made. [[15:55:52]] 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (478, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Banking Act, the Savings Act, the Investment Fund Act, the Real Estate Investment Fund Act, the Payment Services Act, the Securities Supervision Act 2007, the Interbank Strengthening Act, the Company Employees and Self-Employee Prevention Act and the Insurance Supervision Act (497 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8054	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr. Dr. Königshofer. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8081	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The main issue of this government proposal is the prolongation of the bank package adopted last year. So far, so well, we could agree with that, but not with the accompanying music that goes with this bill. We have always called for this bank package to be subject to control by the Court of Auditors, and we are not going to do so because we believe that control by financial market supervision and the Austrian National Bank is too little. Financial market supervision has actually failed in all cases in recent years. I just need to call you BAWAG, Meinl, Bank Burgenland et cetera. The financial service providers and investment companies such as AMIS, Meinl European Land, AVW et cetera, were also not present everywhere. Also, the OeNB control is not so convincing when you know that the OeNB has controlled banks prior to the award of participation capital last year and has reached the conclusion at Hypo Alpe-Adria that this bank should have a profit of € 225 million in 2009 – in fact, it will lose well over € 1 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we should also use this crisis as an opportunity, as it is always said, through restructuring of the Austrian banking sector. We have to make a number of proposals in this respect, which I shall make in the form of a motion for a resolution. I believe that some of these system-related banks, which now have great difficulties – such as the municipal loan that was nationalized last year, but which in turn has lent more than €100 million to Dubai this year, probably to Dubai City – should be merged into an “Austrian bank”. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Who was responsible there? Who was the board of directors there?]] – Yes, yes, the board of directors was Dr. Claudia “Hase (white of nothing)” for the sake of clarity. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] The other banks I'm talking about are the Hypo Alpe-Adria, the ÖVAG and the BAWAG. I think we should take advantage of the opportunity, and the Republic should merge these four banks into an “Austrian bank” in order to reword opportunities from this crisis. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to accept this motion for a resolution, which sets out new ways in the Austrian banking sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8137	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8220	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8241	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This financial package is, of course, an expression of the financial and economic crisis, which we hope will be behind us, but it would be far too early to be warned – especially if we look at the labour market forecasts, in which the labour market service is expected to increase unemployment by 50,000 people next year. In other words, we have a financial package that takes this situation very consciously, taking into account: If you are honest, you have to admit that no economic researcher really knows how to proceed. It is interesting that the last forecasts are all made in the form of letters. The V already excites, so it goes back up as fast as it went down. [[Abg. Bucher: Now it's U!]] Some say it's a U, some say a L, some say a "hatched" W – so down, up again, slightly down and up again. So there is a general uncertainty and it is true that we are acting here again quickly, just as we did with the banking package very quickly at that time. I remind you: It was at the time a five-party union that we achieved. Only yesterday, Ewald Nowotny, the governor of the central bank, pointed out that this bank package could prevent a total economic downturn and that, as far as the budget is concerned, €300 million of liability fees and interest in the budget have come into the budget. So this bank package was undoubtedly correct, both in the dimension and in the timing. Now it is about reducing certain procyclic effects of Basel II with this package. Procyclically, especially in times of economic, economic declines, the effects of Basel II are reinforced. Basel II's capital requirements are basically correct, but because of their strong procyclical effects, they naturally aggravate crisis situations. It is therefore necessary for us, within national scopes, to adapt and disincentive this regulation accordingly – in the interests of liquidity assurance and, ultimately, the competitiveness of the Austrian economic location. The second is that we make a little easier the opportunities to transfer the participation capital – which banks received from the Ministry of Finance – at an early stage. It is very gratifying that the banks are able to repay this capital to the federal government earlier than originally planned. It was also necessary in the Insurance Supervision Act to make adjustments. I just remember that we made the financial corrections for the insurance industry – which were originally only limited by the end of the year. We will have to extend it by another year, because, of course, the consequences of the present situation are still there. The third is that the insurance industry – for example the Vienna Insurance Group – is increasingly moving very successfully in Central and Eastern Europe to divide companies to create modern holding structures. An own stock company for the operating insurance business and at the same time a new holding company is created. Thus, a division of companies is taking place, and the insurance supervision law needs to be adapted accordingly. All this is happening under the impression that we need to help quickly, because although the crisis has reached the low point – at least we hope – but cannot yet be given any warning. Therefore, in the interests of jobs, incomes and social security, we must make these necessary adaptations – and I very much hope that they will be accepted!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8283	Now comes Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8304	Madam President. High house! We agree with this government proposal because, among other things, it is also about extending the penalty, and we are not convinced, unlike the Greens, that the Pendler Pushale would be environmentally hostile. As the name says, the shuttle fee is a flat rate and serves to ensure that people who need the car to get to work will pay the costs accordingly. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Incorrect item on the agenda!]] - No, no! There are, therefore, several points in this government template, including the pre-emptive fee, which makes sense. That's why we're for that. Future security is also included in this package, so we are talking here about the provision of the future. [[Abg. Krainer: Wrong law! That's the next point!]] [[Call:No! That's the next point.]] Aha! All right, I'll say thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8362	So we're at TOP 6 to clarify this clearly. Next, Mr Krainer. I put the clock at 3 minutes and point out that the sitting will be suspended at 16.10 a.m. for the urgent question.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8387	I'll do this a little bit. The tax-amendment law is the next item on the agenda, which concerns the extension of the penalty and future provision. [[Abg. Grosz: The problem is that this is a permanent state! That's a mistake with us!]] – I do not think it is necessary to repeat the call now, since the caller is already known for the high intellectual quality of his calls. There are essentially three questions that concern it – this is now a bit of a repetition of what my previous speaker Günter stupidly said: The question of procyclicality and the question of the extension of the bank package is actually part of the bank package, because the part that concerns the liabilities is, after all, limited to 31.12.2009 and is now being extended. The part relating to equity and participation capital is not temporary, but is always extended by the Commission. In this respect, this part is not affected, but only the liability for the interbank market. The question of the structure of the insurance industry through the possibility of splitting – operating business, managing the holding company – has also been addressed. I would also like to say a few words, because this was in discussion, to the Payment Services Act: We decided here in July that we want to get away from a certain phi losophy. There are several ways to pay an invoice: It was possible to pay cash in the past – at the gas cashier, as it was called – you can pay it via a deposit card, online banking, but also via recovery orders. The most efficient system, which causes the lowest administrative costs for the company and perhaps also for the individual concerned, should be presented as cheaply as possible. So far, companies have done this by using less efficient systems with a fee. We have been in the Payment Services Act, which we adopted in July and that since 1. In November, we want to change this philosophy. It is no longer to be created through a malus of incentive to use efficient payment systems, but through a bonus. For example, the person who makes a recovery order should pay less, and it should not pay someone who pays by means of a deposit note more than the invoice makes. Now there was the massive desire of some companies that this might be changed again. But we think it is true that philosophy is being changed and that you work with the bonus, that is, the sugar bread, and not with the malus, that is, with the whip. That is why we have meant that we want to leave this change essentially the way it is now. I wanted to explain this publicly only after that was also the subject of debates. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8432	It's now 4.08 p.m., I'm going to be Mr. Mag. Do not call Kogler, but at this point interrupt the negotiations on item 6 and interrupt the meeting by 16.10 a.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8464	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[16:10:46]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the end of the climate change blockade – more money for climate protection (922/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8500	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 922/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8783	I now give the floor to the president of the club, Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e8808	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll) Well, now! Enough UV light on Mauritius?]] Yeah, he looks good, looks well. Welcome to the downfalls of reality – the serious reality. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka) The Secretary of State looks pale! Mr State Secretary, you look pale!]] As a question of entry: What are the Austrians most afraid of? Perhaps you can answer that, Minister of Finance! The Austrians fear the consequences of climate change most. They're right to fear, they're afraid. They fear above all because a federal government has abandoned them in a “trio infernal” – namely, the Ministry of Finance, Energy and Environmental Protection – over the last 20 years. This trio – not entirely, but at least the duo of the ÖVP – we now have on the government bank. I think that if you want to cure them, you can't deal with diseases by simply hiding the fever thermometer. But that's what you're doing right now. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That we do what?]] – They hide the fever thermometer to cure a disease. Translated to the political understanding of the ÖVP, this means: Ads instead of work, ads instead of arguments and ads, instead of helping the population change towards climate and environmental protection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have to ask the question of how long the population will be able to do so. In any case, we don't like it any longer and demand a certain truthfulness from you today, so end with fairy tale hours on climate protection! Over the years, we have perceived environmental policy as a public beef meal, as the opening of farm markets, testing of cars and self-retardant-photography – all about advertising – but we have not seen any concrete work and no actions. The work to be done is truly great, we all know. We all look very interested, I hope, in the great climate conference in Copenhagen. Nicholas Stern, a world-famous researcher in this field – economic researchers, climate researchers – has described this: This is probably the most important conference since the Second World War! The work to be done here is very, very large, namely: How do we all manage to respond together as industrialised countries to this creeping threat to climate change? [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] How do we manage to negotiate with someone who does not compromise, namely the atmosphere, which is based on natural laws and not on political compromises between ÖVP and SPÖ? [[Abg. Weinzinger: Not so fast!]] That's the challenge, and it's a big one – and you're obviously not used to it. The ÖVP is used to negotiating with the SPÖ, who at every opportunity looks a little bit up and then says yes, but it is not used to negotiating with an inexorable climate balance. As a result, your beauty dyeing and beauties also look like. We want clear text today, we want to end the fairy tale hour, and we finally want a serious response to Austria's climate commitments in the international context! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The scenarios are clear: By the end of this century, the temperature has increased by 6, perhaps even 8 degrees – at “business as usual”. That means the world won't look the way we know it today. This means that our grandchildren can no longer live the way we live now. This affects many people on other parts of this globe even more strongly than Austria, but Austria will also be very heavily affected. This concerns tourism, especially winter tourism, agriculture, the security of our infrastructures and, above all, our lifestyle. To do so, as if all of this did not concern us – what you have been trying now and have been trying for the longest time – is no longer going through. You have to face up to your responsibility as well as all other industrial nations! We do not want to hear this ridiculous excuse today, namely that Austria is so blatant about climate protection because we have set ourselves such high targets. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: But it is!]] You can put the cartl back in. Please, pack it away immediately, because I want to ask you already – Kartl need it She probably no longer, it's already going externally – the President of the Economic Chamber has once again stressed this and said: We've been so huge. We've done minus 13 percent. And the teaching from the Austrian Kyoto Miser – at least he realized that it is a miser – is from his point of view: We must no longer accept any commitments that we cannot fulfil. Now I would like to know: What would have been the commitment we could have made to plus 11 percent? We did not stand at minus 5 percent or minus 3 percent – target was minus 13 percent – but we have a plus of 11 percent! So to say: Unfortunately, we just missed the big goal!, is the biggest fairy tale after the Christian child! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Probably even worse than the Christian child. [[Abg. Amon: The comparison, this is blasphemy!]] [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: The Christkind is a fairy tale, so please!]] [[Abg. Grosz: The Christkind is not a fairy tale!]] Or do you still believe in the Christian child?- Oh, my God! [[Subsequent calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Okay, then we'll discuss the Christian child at climate protection. This is the line of the ÖVP! Very well, now we know at least. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] At least there's a little movement in the debate. I'm glad you're taking part in it this way now, super! Let's get back to the starting point: What would have been the commitment we could have made? What minus would we have done if we were plus 11 percent? Plus 10 percent maybe? – So please spare us the embarrassment to keep telling this fairy tale. Then we come to the second map or the second fairy tale you can get away with, namely that the other European countries simply have better conditions for many reasons: They have nuclear power plants that have had an East industry that has collapsed, and they are not transit countries. These are the common arguments. I beg you, stop with this crap, with this nonsense! I say that in full consciousness. [[Call the ÖVP: If it's true!]] Okay, then we'll talk about facts. Take Germany as an example: Germany has set itself the goal of reaching minus 21 percent. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Degang Ostdeutschelands!]] “Deergang Ostdeutschelands”, again at the push of a button, I knew it. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: The vice chancellor responds to the push of a button!]] All right, let's say half if you want to argue seriously. Half was the decline in the GDR industry. What about the other half? Germany achieved minus 16 percent, Germany as a whole. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Proud: Atomic power!]] – Germany has not expanded nuclear power, Mr. Collegue, but the renewable energies through the feed-in law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then comes the great story: We're a transit country, we have so much fuel tourism! - Okay, then we'll talk about tank tourism. It is true that a third – perhaps even a little more – of increases in traffic come through tank tourism. But: Where does tank tourism come from? Why are trucks from all over Europe going to Austria and Austria – to buy cheap diesels here, to go back to parentheses – and then to the other side of the border again. Why? [[Abg. Head: Maybe because we're on the way?- Oh, my God!]] We're on our way, Mr. Kopf says. Yeah, but we're also very cheap on the way. We are, in fact, a lowest price country in relation to diesel taxation. [[Abg. Head: Should we change the map?]] That's why they're going through with us. [[Abg. May. Hakl: They all pass through Tyrol!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Should the diesel become more expensive now?]] They go mainly through Tyrol! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, However, we could avoid a lot of truck kilometres, if we had a diesel tax adapted to our neighbouring countries. It is already paying off to drive through Austria with a large tank and to drink cheaply here. Tank Tourism, that was the last of the arguments I hope I will never hear again. – Zwentendorf may still be coming, I forgot. How many countries are there in the European Union that do not operate nuclear power plants? [[Call the ÖVP: Italy! You should make a few suggestions!]] – Some, in the EU-15, it was more than half, and this EU-15 all achieved minus 13 percent. So there are also some countries that do not operate nuclear power plants. By the way: Austria imports electricity. How do we import electricity, Mr. Kopf? - I don't think I have to do this anymore. I would ask you not to take this argument out again. Please, let's talk about it. They were Environment Ministers, Mr. Finanzminister Pröll, and it is a justice of history that you now have to book these, under quotation marks, “poverty payments” in the budget for what you yourself have been as an environmental minister. Alexander Van der Bellen referred to the problem at the time when the debate occurred, in particular by Professor Schleicher of the University of Graz – a highly serious scientist and very committed climate protectionist. You, Mr. Minister, said that he was not in place as an expert. We have asked you for a guarantee that these funds will never be beaten. What about the money now? - You're saying that's horror numbers. €1.5 billion will be paid by the Austrians for the fact that for 20 years you have done nothing in environmental and climate protection! If you are already attacking our new Federal Managing Director, I tell you I'm going to have him go around with the ring bag – with the ring bag; you know it well – and let the ÖVP members throw in money for this failure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: With victim stock! The disposal trade is in fashion!]] There's nothing going on with confessions, and then everything's good again, but that's €1.5 billion in times of very tight budgets. If you – Mr Berlakovich is meant to be this time – now come back with the cartel horror payments, I would like to give you a moment to calculate this. At the moment, prices per tonne are between 10 and 15 €. [[Abg. Head: In the meantime again under 10!]] If you multiply the deficit of 20 million with five, that's 100 million. And that at a lower value times € 10 is exactly 1 billion. That's arithmetic, not great art – Sascha, please, I've expected it this time – but that's understandable, I hope, for you too. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen]] So $1 billion! So far, you've already budgeted half a billion, just to buy pollution rights. What climate policy is that? - You say no one understood that. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Okay, let's try it again. How many tons are missing in the year? 20 million. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Who says that?]] How many years are expected? Five years. The €10 per tonne is €1 billion. If you can't expect that, I don't know if you're in the right place as Minister of Finance. I'm really sorry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Don't worry!]] I don't want to argue for Euros – and 1.5 billion are many euros, right? – but you have made a guarantee that we will achieve the Kyoto goals, not just you, the entire federal government, over years. Only when a year and a half ago this Blue-Vom Sky promise became more transparent did you make a withdrawal, Minister of Finance. Then you promised us something new, a climate protection law before the summer. Only: That was not the summer of 2009, but the summer of 2008! This law should now be in force for over a year. Now we see it again in ads. This is probably the summit of the enhancement of all the citizens of this country: to see a law praised in advertisements that you wanted to present before the summer of 2008 and that is still not in the house to this day. I mean, that's absurd. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For this, citizens see their own tax money in the newspaper. Every day we see climate protection rate. The Climate Change Act must come. – Sure it has to come! But why don't you just advertise that and don't do it? This is really incomprehensible, absolutely incomprehensible! In addition, we do not need a tax-money abuse, Mr Berlakovich. I think that's an abuse. That's where you really lead the population around the nose. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] However, something else is also a smooth abuse, namely using funds for applying your own photos, funds that are actually devoted to climate protection measures, from the Climate and Energy Fund, which is a good establishment, which as a legal mandate is aimed at promoting research and market introduction of new energies, of new technologies, of climate protection technologies, of renewable energy sources. I don't understand how to take money to apply for such large photos of your face. But this has nothing to do with misunderstanding, but it is a smooth abuse of this climate and energy fund. We demand that you do this! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: You can see climate change on his face!]] I also regret, Mr Berlakovich, that you will never give me the opportunity to discuss with you in public somewhere. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: I'm always here!]] There have now been a lot of inquiries, from newspapers, also from television stations. We'll never get together. I don't know why. I'm very happy to discuss with you. [[Call:This will have good reasons]] I think you're afraid, but you don't have to be afraid of me, do you? [[Cheerfulness with Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] That's incredible. [[Abg. Grosz: Be glad, Mrs. Glavischnig!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Now he's here anyway!]] This may lead to excitement now, but it fits into the picture: Ads instead of work, ads instead of arguments and also ads instead of confrontation with opposition and their arguments. And that's not funny anymore. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Cheerfulness with greens and FPÖ.]] On the subject of content policy. Sometime, I believe, synapses will be able to close up in the brains of the ÖVP in such a way that energy policy and climate protection, transport policy and climate protection can be thought together. [[Abg. Grosz: No!]] – Mr Grosz is not convinced. The chance is that you're right. [[Abg. Grosz: This is not about evolution!]] – Evolutionary is not possible. But how can we continue to put billions of euros into road infrastructure every year, although you know exactly, 2020, 2030 we will not be able to move on as now? [[Abg. Grosz: To do this, you need a global and world-wide thinking!]] That's over! Oil-driven mobility is over. She's definitely over. [[Abg. Grillitsch: With your appearance this urgent one is over, Mrs. Colleague!]] You should consider what future investments you should actually make with the money you are turning off the taxpayers. That is why you are sitting here today, Minister of Finance. They are responsible for making available the money that we now need for climate protection and for reorientating it from other sectors. That means: Stop these billions in road construction. That's pointless! That doesn't fit together anymore. I hope the climate summit in Copenhagen will open a window in your head here, so to speak, that you can see it. The second example is energy policy. Yesterday it was about the Nabucco pipeline to support Austria for its construction. That's going to be decided, with a big bravo. We continue to build gas power plants, although we know exactly, that does not fit together anymore. It's over by 2050. By 2050, we must have managed to get out of the fossil industrial gases into the renewable energy-sun alley. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: What are you doing by 2050?]] I hope that sometime in your head this will find a connection. They are now acting as Minister for the Environment and say: This is really difficult, but at least in my area, in agriculture and in the waste management sector, I did it. – But that’s not the point! It's all about the industrial society, it's about our infrastructure, it's about energy generation, it's about mobility. You now have the responsibility by 2015. That's the time window – then it's closed, then it's over. It must finally become clear to us that it will really be over. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But perhaps Mr Grosz is right, and this is not possible evolutionaryly. [[Abg. Grosz: He's usually right!]] My colleague's head doesn't understand what's over. We need to learn to tell you in this context that you cannot negotiate there. There are no compromises. The atmosphere is not like the SPÖ, which then says yes and Amen. The atmosphere does not compromise like the opposition. These are natural laws. They're irrevocable. [[Abg. Grosz: Those who guard the SPÖ!]] Listen to climate science! The new data about the polar year has just come out. These factors act exponentially, i.e. when the polar ice is melted, the effect is exponentially the multiple of the present greenhouse effect. That means it just gets warmer. The Mediterranean region will probably no longer be inhabitable in summer at 44 degrees. I don't know if you've ever been to Death Valley in America. These are prospects where you can't ask: What's wrong, but that's a really serious problem. [[Abg. Grosz: The vice chancellor is flying to Mauritius anyway!]] [[Abg. Head: I don't want to live in Death Valley like that!]] – They don’t want to live on the Mediterranean either. Okay, that's the ÖVP's access to this problem. We want serious answers from you to this problem. We want solutions to this problem. We are also willing to support you with full strength, because this transition to a new society – and nothing else – will also require a lot of acceptance in the population. That's why we have a urgent request today. However, we also need to take stock. 20 years of ÖVP policy in this area of climate policy, environmental policy and transport policy, including with SPÖ participation or off-line, have at the moment to show a balance that makes us an international driver and no longer a pioneer. This is so bad because Austria also had an independent role internationally – who remembers the World Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. We were a pioneer country in the field of anti-AKW policy, in genetic engineering policy, but to stand up with this balance sheet internationally somewhere, where one is worse than George W. Bush, who at least seriously said that he was not interested, and to say that we forbid other countries from producing nuclear power or genetic engineering in energy plants, that is simply not possible anymore. That's very, very bad! [[Abg. Amon: (pointing to visitors who leave the gallery) They all go home!]] There you have also played out a lot of potential in the population that would be there. Truthfulness and ÖVP do not always live under one roof. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want 100% climate protection at home, which also has great economic advantages, very big benefits. We see this in Upper Austria: Jobs were created there in times of crisis. We also want you to question the tax system once. This is totally blind as far as ecology is concerned. It is the kilowatt hour, produced from coal, as expensive as the kilowatt hour from photovoltaics as regards taxation. We want to finally – at last, at last! – a proper eco electricity law and not such a blockade policy over years. We finally want a climate protection law. We don't want it in ads, but we want it here in the house, black on white printed. We would like to decide if it is half reasonable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want you to stop barking at international level as now. This is your blamage and not ours. We Greens have always fought for compliance with climate targets. We have always pointed out that this will not be the case. We have nothing to blame for – just like many environmentalists or Professor Schleicher, where it would be appropriate to apologize to you today. I'll repeat that one again. In fact, as an expert, he was not wrong in the place, but on the contrary: He has issued a very important warning.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e9494	On the issue of an opinion, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I would draw attention to the fact that your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e9518	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am one of the few who have known this record you have played here since 2003; and it has not changed to your arguments, they have not become more correct. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] You have not become more correct: from the Committee on the Environment to the Committee on the Environment, from Parliament to Parliament, from plenary to plenary, always the same! It is simple and simply not right what you are saying here, Mrs Glavischnig. [[Abg. Grosz: This shows you haven't done anything since 2003 except vacation on Mauritius!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in such a debate on such a day in preparation for the Copenhagen Climate Change Conference, it is necessary to address where Austria comes from, where we stand in the climate policy, what we have put on measures – without political polemics – in Austria and what we are planning. The Minister for the Environment will then carry this out in detail. But since this area has been my portfolio in recent years, maybe a few things: Yes, we have one of the most ambitious goals of the European Union, minus 13 percent, and that is – and that is undisputed – measured by gross domestic product, starting from one of the most efficient bases. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's not true anymore!]] We are one of the best countries in terms of CO2 efficiency and gross domestic product, and we still have one of the most ambitious targets. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What you always forget, for example, is Sweden. Let's talk about it! Sweden has negotiated 0 percent reduction in Kyoto, with the same authorisation to continue to operate nuclear power. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The EU 15 have reduced by 13 percent! Less than 13 percent! The goal is overcrowded!]] That's pretty simple then. In line with this objective, Sweden is better than we are. We have an ambitious goal. It can be reached. And we have significantly increased efforts in recent years since the Kyoto Protocol's decision and entry into force. The next point that the Greens have completely disregarded, which, from my point of view, represents a huge chance for our country, is that since 1989 a geopolitical new situation has emerged for Austria. Whoever denies this speaks by the truth! We are at the transport hub in Central Europe in one of the most exciting movements between Western and Eastern Europe with a huge chance for the Austrian Economic Area, which we use with a stronger growth dynamics than all other European Union countries. We have higher growth rates. We also have our noses in the crisis. We're better. This also means that, of course, efforts on CO2 emissions are not as easy to achieve – as in other countries. But we must be proud that we also benefit from this situation. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Second point: Transport policy. Call me a country that in recent times has invested so much money in the infrastructure, also in the redirection of the traffic from the road to the rail, in the question of the addition of alternative fuels to fossil fuels with 5.75 percent! [[Abg. May. Brunner: In motorways!]] We are on the right track and have also brought the right things on the way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The people love the ÖBB!]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the facts and facts. If the ÖBB are very successful, then they are particularly successful in one area, namely that they offer the chance to get away from the road to the rail. [[Abg. Bucher: Are you defending the ÖBB?]] This is a point I do not have to criticize. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Then go on vacation by train!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grosz and Mr Bucher.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on climate protection initiatives. I would like to move away from the political debate on the facts and facts that must also be put on the table in such a framework. Today, so many people watch, they should also have an impression of what has actually been implemented. I recall the climate change measures, only those of the last two years 2008 and 2009: Economic and Social Package, Thermal Rehabilitation. There was €100 million in a very difficult situation in the country with regard to the government budget. 100 million € for private and for businesses! [[Abg. Oellinger: You have issued that for ads!]] This is not a cardboard handle, it has an effect on the economy, on jobs, but above all it has a lasting effect on thermal renovation in reducing energy costs. That's €100 million in addition, which we didn't spend before. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Third point: We have negotiated with the federal states new Article 15a agreements – which you may have missed without a trace – as regards the housing promotion of the future, when and under which conditions housing funds are to be placed. There will only be the lowest energy standard in the new building of houses from 2012 onwards as a basis for funding housing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] No other country of the European Union has behaved so dynamically and clearly in this area. If you want to change your mind before, then explain to the many housekeepers who are already planning why they are not getting any more money, Mrs Glawischnig! Explain You do this to the families that are now building or planning to build a house! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Explain this to the photovoltaic promoters!]] That is why the transitional period by 2012 is the right one for the environment and also for social reasons. Fourth point: Climate and Energy Funds. It's always criticized by you! I was the Environment Minister at the time when we launched the Climate and Energy Fund in 2007. Do you know what we have spent in the Climate Change and Energy Fund in Austria up to now? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] I understand that you don't want to hear what the numbers are. But they're on the table. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... immeasurable access to party politics!]] – €500 million are spent until the end of 2010. And my word applies that we will also provide €150 million per year for climate and energy targets. Starting in 2007, it will also be implemented for the future! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz: How much for ads?]] Fifth point: Ecostromgesetz-Novelle. This was implemented here in 2008 with a target of 8.9 percent. There were two eco-power law novels that serve to ensure that in the future, the eco-power operators will receive something in the entire biogas, biomass, photovoltaics not only for the technology, but also for alternative energy including wind power. You see Austria is doing more than other countries. Further point: Traffic. I think you have already pushed out again that we have given appropriate incentives to the tax bonus on NOVA. 30 000 tonnes of CO2 have been reduced alone. We have implemented the addition of biofuels. 5.75 percent today is the conversion rate in Austria. [[Abg. Grosz: Probably on the Maldives!]] Do you know how much we've realized in the transport sector? 1.4 million tons of CO2 have been saved! This will continue annually. Ladies and gentlemen! This makes sense in a precautionary transport policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not want to talk about what we have put forward and pushed forward at European level. Austria was one of the first countries to ensure that air traffic in the emissions trading sector was included in the emissions trading process so that emissions trading would be extended to the airlines. This too is implemented and will, of course, contribute to climate protection. Environmental promotion in Germany and abroad. You mentioned Upper Austria today. Your colleague, Mr Anschober, has a very different view of things than you, as I hear it. In a very good cooperation between the Federal Government and countries for environmental promotion alone in 2009, we provided €90 million for climate protection projects – cooperative between the federal government and countries. That is the right way, it is constantly being extended and correctly implemented. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Too little!]] We started early on with the JI/CDM projects, one of the main topics at the forthcoming climate conference in Copenhagen. They have constantly been against the fact that we are investing abroad, especially in developing countries. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Such a nonsense!]] In Copenhagen today, this standard is considered to be the basis for how much money we should make available to developing countries. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, bad!]] I will come back to that later in my remarks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, if one considers the last two years, it should be noted that since 2005, the Federal Government’s expenditure on climate protection has increased by 600 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Certificates! Paper! You're buying paper!]] Show me an economic, financial or social field where such an increase in public expenditure has taken place as in climate protection: plus 600 percent since 2005! At that time it was €70 million, this year it is €460 million per year. These are investments for the future and to stop climate change. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are now just before the Copenhagen conference. I have now mentioned a few examples where Austria has invested much more than many others. Mrs Glavischnig, when assessing Copenhagen now, will focus on the question: How much is the European Union, how much is the world community willing to invest for the poorest countries in the world? They were always against it. You have always said: no money abroad, no money for developing countries to support climate protection! Always! JI/CDM projects in all formations rejected! Today it is the standard in Copenhagen. I am glad that at the level of the Heads of Government of €7.2 billion today, we have defined this European sum, Mr Van der Bellen, and that Austria will provide €120 million for climate protection measures in three years. Even the amount of money that is not easy to bear in such a tense situation as now, but the right signal at the right time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There was another decision taken by today's Intergovernmental Conference in Brussels for the European Union, on a subject that you have also referred to – you will never be able to enforce, it has always said –: Financial transaction tax as counter-financing, for the World Monetary Fund. A real signal to invest in climate protection and to go in this direction and drive it forward accordingly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ]] Often smiled and criticized by you. Then at the end of the day, I'll say something that's also my need. I hear – I do not know yet, but I read on your homepage and I hear it in the green statements – that today there is to be a distrust against Minister Niki Berlakovich, who has been doing his work excellent for the environment and agricultural policy in this country for a year. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Petzner]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What you are doing with this signal today, ladies and gentlemen, is trying to weaken the position of Austria as an environmental country for the Copenhagen conference. They want a minister, a government weak, just before a crucial conference on climate protection in Copenhagen. – Wrong path, wrong goal, still for a minister who made his work excellent.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e9873	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. The first is Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e9900	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr Finanzminister, if you listen to you like this, you might think that everything is actually fine, everything is fine. I wonder how we get to this catastrophic climate balance! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think you gave the answer yourself: Nothing has changed in your policy since you agreed to the Kyoto goals. Let us take a closer look at where Austria stands today if you already value it. Austria – it has already been mentioned – is a final climate protection light in Europe. I don't know, it's embarrassing, it doesn't seem to you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's right, we had an ambitious goal. The only thing that was not ambitious was our climate policy, and it ultimately led us to where we are unfortunately standing today. We need to buy emission certificates so that we can achieve our goal. They talked about the huge chance of Eastern Europe. What is the Minister of Agriculture doing? He buys emission certificates in Eastern Europe, for example in the Czech Republic, and thus supports nuclear power plants. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go, please, that's not true!]] Temelín expects revenue from the sale of certificates. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They are talking about renewable energy in ÖVP speech and how great that is and what that cannot bring to our country, they are adopting an eco electricity law, praise this – and this very eco electricity law is slowing the expansion of green electricity in Austria. No windwheels will continue to be built, no photovoltaic systems will continue to be installed. That's just the wrong way. In Spain, in Germany, in the Czech Republic, there are ambitious goals everywhere, ambitious framework conditions, and Austria sleeps everything! I believe that a Minister of Finance should also recognize that, when it comes to the future of the country, there are a number of things that are missing. They addressed the environmental budget, praised JI/CDM. More than €80 million is budgeted in the environmental budget for JI/CDM projects per year. These are projects we finance abroad instead of making climate protection at home. With this €80 million we could finance climate protection in Austria! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Both are necessary!]] [[Abg. Head: We'll both need it!]] It's 531 million € already budgeted. This must be done by the Austrians for criminal payments! We can hang the paper then, but have nothing in hand. With this €531 million we could make climate protection in Austria! To further explain the difference between JI/CDM and support for developing countries: This is quite different, because the support of developing countries must be done in addition to meeting our climate change objectives. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For me, the problem in Austria's climate policy is that you simply think in your previous structures, and that just doesn't work. We need to change, we need to change politics in Austria, and the government seems unable to do so. But I would now like to come to the Minister for Agriculture and congratulate him very warmly on the 'Fossil of the Day'. At the beginning of the Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, he received a prize on the first day that the NGOs awarded there, namely for outstanding achievements, but for particularly negative achievements. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: You're happy if Austria's in a bad position, gell?]] I'm not glad at all! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Of course you are happy!]] I think you deserved this price fairly. I'm not glad because I mean, Austria certainly didn't deserve this price. [[Abg. Amon: Just like that, we're in the opinion too!]] I will go to Copenhagen next week and try to make it clear that there is already environmental policy in Austria, climate protection activists, a lot of people working for climate protection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I've got a letter addressed to you, too, from young people inside: Do not wait for European or international standards, introduce a CO2 tax to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels! Leave an ambitious climate protection law without loopholes for the economy, and stand for the 40 percent reduction in greenhouse gases required by scientists of all industrial nations by 2020! Or: The young people who were here in Parliament have asked a list of questions as to why climate policy is not going on, 134 questions. For example: Why has Austria not long been considering its inefficient climate policy and eliminating mistakes so that we can meet our Kyoto targets? – Honestly, I have not been able to answer the question, because I ask it myself. [[Abg. Rädler: You'll ask in Copenhagen right now!]] The only thing that happens here – it has already been addressed – is: It is not traded, but ads are turned on. And I think this is cynical when taxpayers and taxpayers have to pay even before for the miscarriage in climate policy and then still have to pay for advertisements so that you can still be positive about this missing policy. [[Congratulations and a reputation for the Greens: Abuse!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: This is corruption!]] You have not acted when it comes to a CO2 tax. You're not an Environment Minister, you say we have an economic crisis, you can't change anything. CO2 taxes are not new taxes, we need to ecologize the tax system and create more compensation. They're not doing anything about climate protection law. We have tabled a request that treatment has been postponed, climate protection has been postponed. They are talking about energy-autarchic Austria, but at the same time they are adopting an eco electricity law that will prevent this very energy-autarchic Austria. And thanks for it is that we have this disastrous balance. Mr Minister of Agriculture, I do not propose to you this balance sheet, which is already the fault of your predecessors. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: But you're making a mistrust! You're not throwing up anything, but you're making a mistrust! That's a Gaudi!]] But I would like to remind you that now that we have this balance on the table and where the most important environmental conference has taken place at all, and perhaps even the most important in history, you see no reason to change and negotiate anything in your policy. You have completely failed in climate policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I also see a failure in anti-atomic policy. Here, too, the budget is financed, for example, the EURATOM budget, and, as I said, emissions trading is financed indirectly by nuclear power plants. There is no sufficient resistance to border-related projects such as Mochovce, Temelín. Where's your call when Berlusconi is planning new nuclear power plants? Italy would have been an ally, a non-atomic country, has come out of nuclear power. I didn't hear anything. And it's going on. It is not only climate policy, but also other air pollutants, such as fine dust, that we are sumptuous. Here, Austria has called for a postponement in the EU for compliance with our limit values. Even with the nitrogen oxides it is so that more is emitted than actually our target value. As far as water protection is concerned, we are in the process of implementing the regulation which the EU requires. You see, Austria is only doing something in environmental policy if it is specified by the EU. The same is true of citizens' rights, EIA, Aarhus Convention. Maximum minimum standards will be implemented. And what I also criticize: They don't have a single discussion. They have developed the position for the most important environmental conference in secret – not with environmental experts, but with the fossil economy. That is, I think, a complete scandal for environmental policy. You don't give any information, you don't give any information, you don't discuss. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true! There's not true!]] Then finally, take a stand! We will be happy to discuss with you publicly at any time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: I am sitting there for discussion now!]] It is not easy for me to say that we are no longer an environmental model country, because that is something you could be proud of, and I regret that the potential that Austria had is not being exploited. I am absolutely of the opinion that we must return to environmental model countries, but this is not the case with this structure. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Amon: Bad style is that!]] Austria needs to become an environmental model country again, and I therefore believe that Austria needs an independent, independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment from now on.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e10184	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e10354	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e10375	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I am really pleased, honestly, that so many members of the government find it worth the effort to be here on this issue, and climate policy also gives appreciation and recognition. I think that's important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I want to start with something international, with something pleasing: Today, the EU summit is committed to supporting developing countries with €7.2 billion in their own capacity to adapt to climate change, and are also able to reduce greenhouse gases. This is a good starting position for the negotiations, which will then take place in the next week. I also believe that it is quite welcome that German Chancellor Faymann has decided that Austria will also make a contribution of € 120 million. I think that's an important signal, too. I am also optimistic about the non-respectability of the costs of climate adaptation and greenhouse gas reduction measures to the ODA, the public development aid we provide. On various occasions, I asked both Foreign Minister and State Secretary Lopatka and the Minister for the Environment in committees whether they saw it as such that the money for climate protection would have to come in addition to the ODA. Yeah, everybody sees it that way. I think this is very positive and very, very important. The fact that Austria has been named “fossil” together with Sweden and Finland on the first day in Copenhagen is not at all acceptable is another leaf. On this issue, which Austrian position is represented in the field of forest management control, I have already put in a parliamentary question at the beginning of November, because it has become clear that the Austrian position is obviously a very difficult one. I know, Minister of the Environment, that you have eight weeks from the law to reply. But I would be very pleased if you could answer this question at least at the beginning of next week, because I think it is of great relevance, the Austrian position or the explanation. I would like to ask the Commission if it is prepared to take a decision on this matter. I very much hope that there will be a move in the Austrian, Finnish and Swedish positions, because if the EU goes into the negotiations without a common position with LULUCF, it will not be easier. Let me come to Austria, where there is a wide variety of relevant possibilities, as we can operate in the domestic climate protection. I'd like to start with the thermal renovation. Mr Matznetter and I have presented a new model at a press conference last week, how in our view thermal renovation could work: In a second tranche 2010, there should not be a restriction on single and two-family houses, and not a grant, but a credit model, because we know that there are just the poorest people sitting in the worst apartments that are often heated with old technologies, such as coal, which have the most untightliest windows and the thinnest walls. A promotion that meets these people means to win at multiple levels: On the one hand, the operating costs of these people are falling, on the other hand, their quality of life is increasing. Thirdly, of course, there is a massive reduction in greenhouse gases. And there is a very important impetus for the construction and construction sector, jobs and domestic value added. With our model these grants are refinancing, there are really only winners. We have also written a letter to Mr Mitterlehner in this regard, and we hope that we will soon be able to talk about this model and that there will be funds. We also need to talk about environmental promotions in the country. This is generally the business environment promotion, where there are a lot of businesses with good projects, with good ideas, but we have a two-year backpack of applications. The Lord – not yet – Klubobmann Head and I were rarely as united in the government negotiations on the environmental chapter as in the question of the need to dismantle this proposal backpack in the UFI. It has become a note without a reservation in the Declaration of Government, without a starder. I thought it very, very important, Mr Finanzminister, to really pack and bind this backpack well in order to finish these two-year applications, which are available and can really contribute with very effective measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Austria. Based on the operating time of the plant, the tonne costs CO2 in the domestic environmental promotion of 7 €. We'll never get that cheap anywhere else. Thermal renovation, environmental promotion in the country, these are all measures where it is much better to invest now, to take money now, to protect the climate now, than to bathe climate warming later on much more expensive. Another note to the Climate Change Act. As early as June 2008, we from the SPÖ rejected this draft, which came from the then Minister for the Environment Pröll Environment, saying: From our understanding one makes a law so that one first negotiates and then sets a law – and not so that one makes a law in which one writes a negotiating order. The draft, which is now being baffled by the area, even foresees that each single ministry should negotiate with the countries. I don't think that can't be the right way, because nothing can come out of it. What we need is a federal climate protection law with concrete measures, and we have a climate strategy with a hint of measures that we could simply write into the law, with clear responsibilities. I believe that the spirit of the Climate Change Act must be to exercise responsibility, not to delegate responsibility, to actually implement measures and to draw up concrete financing and timetables. It is very sad that so much time has not been used on this issue of the arrival of a federal climate protection law. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] There are – we all know – in the climate protection debate Sackgasses. From my point of view, for example, Carbon Capture and Storage is part of the use of non-sustainable agrofuels, but also even the self-moving with combustion engines. There are a number of useful opportunities for climate protection, which will come to us anyway in the next time. I would just like to mention two legislative projects which we will discuss and decide here in the next few months. There are very good opportunities to become active in climate protection policy. The first project is the Waste Management Act, in which I strongly insist that we again have legal quotas for multi-way bottles. It has been shown that the voluntary commitment of the industry does not work at all, that the choice of consumers does not work at all, because they cannot choose. There are almost only disposable products on the market. – But these would be very important ways of action, so that the people of Austria can contribute to climate protection with their purchase decision. A second law that stands us in the house is the Immission Protection Act Air. The problem is that there are still so many exceptions to the question of equipment and machines. Because of all these exceptions in Vienna, for example, for the 400 machines that are in use, the mayor – who is actually the one who should do something in the event of excesses – has just ten machines really competence, all others are excluded by any exceptions; as well as tractors, which I consider very, very harmful. We know that it would be necessary also to address the question of tractors in the IG-air in principle. I believe that, in conclusion, we have quite positive aspects of climate policy. I'm just thinking about traffic. The fact that € 14 billion will be invested in the expansion of rail in the coming years is undoubtedly the largest climate protection measure in Austria at all. This is a climate policy that thinks beyond the legislative period, and that is exactly what we will need.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e10484	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e10506	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! We now owe a debate on environmental policy in our country at this wonderful blue hour, Mrs Glawischnig and her colleagues. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Climate Goals!]] We are discussing the interactions that our economic activities have on the environment, on air, on the atmosphere. The only thing that comes to mind is: Minister, step back! Mr Minister, leave it alone! – Ladies and gentlemen! Given the development that Austria has taken over the last 20 years, given the economic recovery we have made after the collapse of the communist systems and the opening of the Iron Curtain, given the development which has made us better compared to all the others in Europe, we can say that we have implemented environmental policy, we have implemented climate policy. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, hello! What are you talking about?]] We can show today that on the one hand we have a wealth as never before, on the other hand, we have economic stability as never before, and in terms of decoupling CO2 emissions, emissions from environmentally harmful gases, and economic development are among the best in Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's not true for a long time!]] Dear Mrs Glavischnig, the good development that the black and blue government has taken in this country, the economic benefits from this time that have been achieved – I have to say this because of your present outfits; this stimulates me directly – have helped us to live better in recent years, but in fact, we have more CO2 in some areas as well. [[on the blue dress and the black jacket of Abg. Dr. Glavischlig Wise]] We've run counter in many areas, but you're doing bad things. I won't blame you. They themselves have accompanied this path for a long time as a caretaker in the Committee on the Environment. You didn't think much about it. In the end, you have resigned from the Committee on the Environment, have left your young colleague Brunner this forum and now leave the opportunity to discuss with Niki Berlakovich, our Federal Minister, Mrs Brunner. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I happened to be a clubwoman!]] You could have taken the opportunity yourself, but you didn't use it. On the contrary, you have even sacrificed your concern in the Committee for the refusal of discussion. I must say that there have been many important initiatives last year; Initiatives that have a little further for the environment, for climate protection. But what actually happened? – The economic aspects of this development have never properly understood the Greens. From the development in the field of energy, in the field of agriculture, in the field of fuel blending, Mrs Glawischnig, you could have learned something, but you did not look at that. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Concentrate! Don't make any mistakes!]] As regards the environment, you wanted to talk, and I have seen in the Committee what it was like. Last year, the Federal Environmental Liability Act was negotiated. – Committee president: green, decision: No, no, no, Basle Conventions, control of transboundary shipments of hazardous waste and disposal of radioactive substances and so on; delicate history. – If the Green Council had been asked: no debate, no. Climate and Energy Fund Act. – Praised by you in the debate as a good thing, praised by you in the Committee; the green contribution: No, no, no, [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's more against you!]] Further: Federal law on reducing emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases, an important law. – The Greens: No, no, no, Next point: REACH Regulation. – The Greens: No, no, no, That goes on, nine laws, always just: No, no, no, [[New call of the abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Constitutional majority – always: No, no, no, Green Blockade policy, total inventiveness, refusal of discussion – and you want to tell someone how! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you don't understand the economy, you are the blockers in the environment, and the worst is now Copenhagen. In Copenhagen, where it really is about something where we act together as Austria, you should be at least so far patriots that Austria is represented with one opinion. What you have listed in the last few weeks is a shame for the Greens, speaking for the Greens, to adapt this spectacle to our minister, to misrepresent Austrian achievements. We know what we need to think of you. I'm really excited about what you're going to do in Copenhagen. Grace, God, for Austria, if the Greens are allowed to negotiate there. – Thank you for representing us by Niki Berlakovich.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e10652	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e10673	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Climate change is the challenge and the opportunity to see it. The world cannot afford to miss them! – With these words, the Danish Prime Minister Rasmussen opened the World Climate Summit on Monday. I say climate change is considered the greatest environmental and economic challenge for humanity. Especially in terms of countermeasures, we need special attention, especially since the world community, even since it is aware of the problem, has argued far too slow and in terms of content far too little and failed to respond. The first countermeasure by the international community in view of the threat was the adoption of the United Nations Framework Agreement on Climate Change in 1992. The aim was to stabilise the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere at a level that prevents dangerous damage to the climate system. But as it is about Kyoto, we have only recently learned. For Austria, which always likes to attach itself to the flags, climate protection is further away from this goal than any other country. Mr Brunner has already said that Austria received a dubious award at the beginning of the Copenhagen climate summit, namely the "Fossil of the Day" award. This shows us once again: Austria is still in a phase of lip confessions and the beautiful Sunday speeches in the field of energy policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Kyoto, however, is an outflow model, but a post-Kyoto rule is urgently necessary. Unfortunately, however, with regard to the successions, it looks very sad, as has occurred for decades. Already the UN Climate Change Conference in Nairobi, which should clarify how the post-negotiations of the post-2012 climate regime are structured and how packages of action for developing countries are decided, was not exactly a success. In Nairobi, it has been shown that it is not enough for basic progress to be made in the negotiation of environmental ministers or delegates, since they do not have sufficient decision-making powers in most cases. The UN Climate Change Conference in Bali, which should focus on further action on a Kyoto follow-up agreement, was also a lesson in how not to do it. The long-term negotiations threatened to fail until the last time in the absence of US compromise, which did not want to meet firmly agreed objectives, but rather relied on voluntary self-obligations and innovativeness of the economy. The UN Conference in Posen in December 2008 was anything but a milestone. The conference in Posen, however, was under the impression of the financial crisis and a then still noticeable refusal of the US government Bush. The United States did not move very much in the climate issue at that time. A simultaneous climate summit in Brussels was also unable to achieve a breakthrough. In the last minute, due to Germany's industry-friendly attitude, the result was greatly watered there. The negotiations on a comprehensive post-2012 climate change agreement will now be concluded in Copenhagen. The first report from Copenhagen, however, is more than worrying. There has already been a conflict between industrialized and developing countries. Developing countries and China are outraged by the draft that is supposed to favour the industrialized countries. In particular, two elements are strongly criticised: firstly, that the climate targets for the industrialised countries are confirmed only by 2050, and secondly that there are no shorter targets for climate protection for ruling politicians. Similarly, financial support has been required from the industrialised countries for the climate action of developing countries. Today, €7.2 billion has been decided – a first step. We, too, speak out in favour of the support of the developing countries through Austria. It is absolutely necessary to grant financial assistance to developing countries for a rapid climate change measure, but this must necessarily be done in a neutral way. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot agree to this proposal from the Greens, although it contains some good approaches, only because of the recent scandals in the trade in certificates. We do not just want to buy – as the Greens demand – certificates from countries with nuclear power, we do not want to buy any more certificates! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Although Austria is making a great deal of sense of climate change and of the EU CO2 tax that is apparently expected, trade in emission certificates is proving to be a money-destruction machine. €5 billion of damage was done by organised fraud against CO2 certificates in the EU. The criminal detours, which have taken full advantage of the EU's absurd tax rights, were already known in the late autumn of 2008. This fraud is anything but difficult to understand. I bring an example: One company buys certificates from another company in a second EU country, which is tax-neutral for both. The buyer sells the pollution rights in his own country to a third party, making 20 percent VAT available. This is now refunded to the second buyer long before the last buyer can take it off. This one then subsides, and the taxpayer has the damage. For us, this mega-scandal, which has now been flown up, is once again a confirmation of the consistent rejection of this unfavorable CO2 trade and the Austrian Federal Government once again calls on it to do so: Use billboard and home mind! Finally, go the way in the right direction for Austria to the greatest possible energy autonomy. This will ensure us safety in the future and save us euro billions in the medium term. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Finanzminister, one word to you. On this occasion, I remember what position you did not represent for too long ago, when the Austrian biomass association presented bio-heat certificates in 2005. At that time, you were still Environment Ministers, and at the time I was really impressed with what enthusiasm you were talking about the importance of climate protection and which in part you represented very advanced views at the time. But it seems that at the same time as you are with the office, the priority is also changed, because since you are Minister of Finance, you can hear quite different sounds from your mouth. Nevertheless, I appeal to Your Environmental Conscience, which must not have completely disintegrated into air Release the necessary means for climate protection and let us take a courageous step forward! Thank you. [[Abg. Strache: Is that at all, a conscience? That's the question!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e10755	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e10822	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e10843	Mr President. High house! [[Call at the SPÖ: Is it right now?]] This time I have the right speech, I was a little ahead of my time, now I am back in the right time. [[Abg. Grosz: That's always us!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Minister for the Environment, Berlakovich, you claimed that climate protection was not a national concern in the “press hour” not too long ago. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: He's starting wrong again!]] Now I wonder, Minister: For whom is climate protection not a national concern? Is this perhaps not an issue for the government, perhaps no concern for the people – or perhaps no concern for Mr Pröll? Otherwise, I could not explain why, Mr Pröll, you said about two years ago as Minister for the Environment, you should always, if it is not necessary, give up on flights, and then even fly to Mauritius! I've been thinking about this. This is 17 000 kilometres, with 5.5 tons of CO2 being emitted. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you narrative, 5.5 tons of CO2!]] This is just as much as if you were going around the earth with a car, so on average the emissions of a three-year passenger car, and I didn't even count on your partner. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: But there is not yet the biological emission!]] Mr Minister, if you say that this is not a national concern, then simply make it a national concern! Make it a national concern and do not always use excuses! I only heard excuses from you in the press hour. You just said that the other ministries were to blame, you didn't have a right to intervene, you couldn't do anything about being just the motivator. – If you're asked: Do you perhaps need more enforcement rights?, then you say – I quote –: That's not necessary! It is therefore not necessary, Minister. – If you do not have access rights on the one hand, on the other hand do not consider yourself competent, nor do you consider responsible, then I wonder: Who should solve environmental problems? We have environmental problems, and we do not know from yesterday that we have to save CO2. Former Minister for the Environment Pröll has also known that we have to pick up a lot in the CO2 question, but nothing has gone on, and you, Minister Berlakovich, are not taking anything further, and are now talking about the energy strategy that is not yet in place. I wonder, Where is this energy strategy, which says how we can achieve this Kyoto objective? – You are now in office for more than a year, and there is nothing! When's that coming, Minister? The curiousness of this situation can be seen by a simple example. Imagine that an entrepreneur consumes a lot of energy in his production and therefore appoints an employee who gets the order to save 30 percent of the energy. This employee has a nice office and seems to be very diligent. When he was asked after six months: What does it look like?, says this employee: So at the moment, we have nothing, no strategy, no idea, nothing at all, and the goal is far removed! It's been a whole year with you, and there's nothing yet, Mr. Minister. That's why I'm asking you why. Why is it that nothing goes on on this point? – You have also answered this question in the “press hour”. [[Abg. Donabauer: You already asked twice!]] You said you were a football player. [[Call:]] – The Minister is a football player. [[Abg. Strache: Football, really?]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll:...I don't!]] [[Call at BZÖ: He was a football player once!]] Mr. Berlakovich. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] - Sorry, I am now talking about the Lord... [[Prolonged calls.]] Mr. Berlakovich is a football player. - A little calmer, please! So, Mr Berlakovich said in the press hour, he's a football player; that's exactly how he said it. He also said that as a football player he sees this sporty, and it's over until the end of the doll. – Only, Minister, we are 10 : 0 behind, and you are still using the same strategy, and that means simply not doing anything at all. Can you explain to me now how you want to pick up a 10 : 0 residue if you don't change your strategy? [[I should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the Greens on his report.]] But it's gonna be much better. The Minister does not feel responsible for the other ministries. He does not need any further skills, and he is also still resistant to advice, for in the “press hour” for example, he was proposed a non-profit environmental tax reform. What did he say? – We do not need that, we have enough potential to save on industry and transport anyway. And on demand he said: But we are not responsible for these areas! However, a Ministry of Climate Change was also remembered, in which the competences are pooled. – The Minister does not need that either. He doesn't need any more skills – but he doesn't do anything either! I'll get you together. The Minister no longer needs competence. He doesn't need a stronger ministry. He doesn't need anything at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: He needs a holiday!]] Why? – He sees himself – literally, I wrote it down – as a motivator. [[Abg. Grosz: Mauritius needs it!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Where did he say that?]] – In the press hour. - Yes, very much. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Do you like to watch “press hour”?]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] In the “press hour”, the Minister said that he sees himself as a motivator. – Look You don’t like “press hour ”? [[towards Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] [[Call to the ÖVP: That depends on who is!]] So, Berlakovich is a motivator, he said in the press hour. Well, very good. I'd rather say he's a entertainer [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Minister for Holiday, Leisure and...!]] He always attracts himself when he is in public, the green coat, then he takes the water pipe, makes green smoke signals, and tries to distract us all from the disaster we are pointing to. This seems to me like the orchestra on Titanic: You know, at the end of the Titanic, the orchestra played until the end. The Minister also appears to me: He sweetens us down by playing on his violin until the end and scatters sand into our eyes until we actually go down with the CO2 problems. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What do you want to tell us? What's the message?]] It seems to me that this does not matter to the Minister. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I have one point to address – I know that my speaking time is already a bit short, but please let me add one more point, please, one point; and a little more quieter, otherwise the Minister does not hear me; a point please, Mr Cap, please, just one, Mr Cap: [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP]] [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Abg. Head: Keep moving!]] The Minister for the Environment – a little bit quieter when it comes; yes, exactly, very well – the Minister for the Environment is always talking about energy autarchy. [[Up-to-date calls for tenders]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] Energy autarchy means a saving of 80 percent on CO2 emissions. Now I ask how this should go, and come back to the example from before. This entrepreneur, who has hired someone to reduce energy consumption by 30 percent, but who doesn't reduce it by a single percent, goes to this employee and asks: Dear friend, what's wrong with you? You didn't even save a percent! – And the employee tells him: Yes, yes, it will! In reality, you can save 40, 50, 80 percent! – But this employee doesn’t even make that one percent. And that's what you always do, Minister: You're making yourself here, talking about energy autarchy, and it's nothing but that you keep us fooling. They're fooling us! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Faith Do you really think we're losing you that you can save 80 percent of CO2 if you can't even save a single percent? That is why, Mr Minister, I must also say that – unfortunately, because that is not my way – we must also express our distrust here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl]] I'm not making this easy. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Then there is no more “press hour”!]] [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of SPÖ.]] I do not do this easily because you are ultimately an employee of all of us. “Minister” means “service” – did you know that? “Minister” means “slaves”, in this case “ Servants of the People”. The people are very dissatisfied with you because you don't carry anything on. The problems are just sitting, Minister, that won't work. I think you can't deal with the problems, but we can sit you down and hope that the next minister will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e11220	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e11241	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is positive that we are dealing with climate protection today, as on 7 June we are talking about climate protection. The United Nations Conference on Climate Change started in Copenhagen in December. It is a shame that you, Mr Lugar, are bringing this debate to a cabaret event here. What you're giving here may be pretty funny, but in this thing it doesn't bring us a millimeter. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: But you don't do anything else, that's the problem!]] I would have preferred to talk here in a more constructive way about climate protection. [[Abg. Grosz: You manage instead of acting!]] But that, against which I refuse to do so, is that you are bad for Austrian environmental policy and therefore make Austria bad and permanently damaging it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have never denied, ever since I was Minister of the Environment, that there is a lot to be achieved. No one says that everything is all right, but we still have a lot to do with it. The fact is, however, that we are still an environmental model country in many areas, despite the unconventions of the Greens. This begins with Austria being still free from nuclear energy, although all around Austria are increasingly relying on it, including France, and thus achieving the climate objectives. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Do we have to be grateful that we don't lock up Zwentendorf?! This is a great performance!]] Even if that doesn't fit you. We are free from genetic engineering, we are defending it and we are now also expanding it at European level. We are – from the surface – in the first place what organic farming is going on, we are top riders throughout Europe. No land has more organic farming than we do. We're at a top spot in wastewater treatment. Our lakes have drinking water quality. In the case of renewable energy, we are fourth in the European Union. You can be proud of that. I don't know why you want to talk bad. These are the merits of the Environment Ministers of the past and of the present, but also the merits of this House, which has brought about many reforms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To Copenhagen: The discussion has begun there, running at expert level this week. There are about 8,000 government representatives and experts there, and it is a very laborious round of negotiations. It is negotiated in 40 subgroups. This also takes place in such a way that some countries are fighting about the Rules of Procedure and do not want to get to the point, not to set any reduction targets or to accept reduction commitments. This shows the complexity of the question. They always link Kyoto and Copenhagen: The Kyoto target is a major challenge for Austria. These are very ambitious goals and difficult to achieve accordingly. The fact is, however, that Austria has entered into an undertaking in connection with Kyoto by 2012. The US and China, the two largest issuers in the world, have not entered into any commitments at all, and this is what is going on in Copenhagen: The fact that these states also join a World Climate Change Agreement by which they contribute. Even if China or other countries claim a development deficit for themselves, it is important that they make a significant contribution as the largest issuer in the world. For the accusation, which was also medially widened: ‘Fossil of the day’. To get the picture straight: There a group of NGOs sits together and distributes such prices daily. That day, by the way, all the industrialized countries of the world made their first place, because, in the opinion of the NGOs, they are doing too little for climate protection. – To be that way is her good right. The second place has been made by Austria together with Sweden and Finland, because of the forestry question – I am still coming back to it – and in third place was Canada, because the Canadian Prime Minister has said that what the NGOs are doing is a great circus. So you see the sensitivity, which is also shown there. Now I come to the “Fossil of the Day” and the Forestry question: What we have agreed together in the European Union is that the forest should be a carbon sink, clearly. Austria is one of the most forest-rich countries in the world with 47 percent forest area. So far, at Kyoto, we have the voluntary accountability of accounting, and we also want to receive it from Copenhagen for the future. The fact is that countries such as Finland, Sweden and also Austria, which have been operating sustainable forestry for 150, 200 years, will have no disadvantage in the future. As a reference year, the year 1990 will be taken as a reference year, counting the stock of wood, and in 1990 we had a huge stock of wood, as much more forest grows than we use. However, we cannot expand this growth until the goal is achieved, so it would create a disadvantage for us, even because we also want to extract more biomass. It cannot be that forest-poor countries, such as Holland, which are now forested by train, are the good, and we, which we operate sustainable forestry, replanting and natural rejuvenation, are to be punished. I do not represent that from the Austrian point of view. That's where I'm fighting for our Austrian positions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] This is not at all related to the deforestation of subtropical rainforests, because Brazil, Indonesia and other states extract the rain forest and then build soya there. You have a completely different access there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is far from a reason to block negotiations on how Austria is doing!]] Our forestry will continue to work in the future. Since from the NGOs it is said that dead wood is taken out of the forest here: This is a necessary measure to maintain the health of forests so that the birch beetle does not multiply and does not cause any further environmental damage. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is not the main problem of climate protection!]] That's just for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you say, Mrs Brunner, that I am not guilty of it because I am only in office for a year, but at the same time I express your distrust, I must say that you are making a remorse on it yourself! I understand you're about the offices, but that won't bring us a millimeter further, because it's important that we have an shoulder closure. Mr Lugar, you have not listened to the “press hour” – I am pleased that you are looking at my programmes – because I have just said that we need a national shoulder closure in terms of climate protection, because we will not achieve anything else. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not your show!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is a broadcast of the ORF!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's how an ad iconist speaks!]] It is about the future of young people – for example, those who sit here in the gallery – and about securing their future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Together with the European Union, we as Austria have a clear position: We are willing to save 20 percent of greenhouse gases. We are also willing to make more when other industrialised countries – such as the USA – make comparable offers. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How do you want to do this?]] For Austria, this is not a matter at all. Austria was last mentioned negatively in the circle of the Environment Ministers because of the Kyoto objectives, because we as the European Union achieve the Kyoto objectives overall – that was the report of the Environment Commissioner. However, we also want the poor developing countries to receive support. It was therefore important that the Heads of State at European level today or at night agreed that there is more money for developing countries than start-up funding for climate protection, because these states cannot afford climate protection – 7.2 billion for the coming years. Austria will also participate because we want to help these countries. Austria is an active partner in climate change negotiations, and so am I. However, we expect the developed developing countries – such as China, India, Brazil, Mexico – to make their contribution. It is clear: Climate protection is a world concern and cannot be borne by a few states. The fact that I am trying to do so shows the fact that I have invited NGOs to my ministry, together with representatives of the economy – that was presented by all present as unique, because it has never happened that one comes together, hears their opinion and then develops a strategy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner]] I have also expressed the invitation to the parliamentary parties whose representatives drive to Copenhagen to reach this national close-up to climate protection in a virtual human chain. If you hit out the outstretched hand, that's your problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In any case, this is also the case with the Climate Change Act, because it is a fact that many say that climate protection is important, but that in the negotiations for the law some say: But I don't take responsibility! – By the way, that was the case with some federal states. I would like to ask Mr Anschober that he has not given a glorious idea in this regard as regards the country of Upper Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] It is said suddenly that we as the federal states are not responsible for certain parts, although the Constitution sets out competences This is the truth, because Josef Pröll has already had difficulties with the Climate Change Act, and that is why the negotiations are so laborious now that many in practice do not want to assume responsibility. But we will also do that, because I see climate change as a threat, but climate protection as a huge chance that we can realign ourselves in many new areas, create green jobs, such as in the field of renewable energy. We have passed the Eco electricity Act and are working on the feed-in tariff regulation, together with Mr Mitterlehner, who is responsible for it. We will also give renewable energy opportunities, because we have committed ourselves to the share of renewable energy in Austria of 34 percent by 2020. It will not be easy to achieve this, but we have committed ourselves to it and we see it as a huge chance. The energy strategy will be available at the beginning of next year. This was an extensive process in which all those who can supply inputs took part: the stakeholders, NGOs, the energy industry, the bioenergy organisations and many others. Yes, an energy-autarchy Austria is my goal. I think that this is a fascinating vision for our country, because it allows us to create new jobs, especially in rural regions, and to do something for climate protection. So a win-win situation that I think is very fascinating. In the field of research, we're going to take on the enormous and I see this as a huge chance for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As you keep addressing the ads: I am surprised that you are against the ads that serve as information for the population and contribute to the awareness-raising of people. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Information, but not your face!]] [[Abg. Grosz: hundreds of thousands of euros for information!]] And this, although, for example, in environmental policy, with regard to climate protection, Creating awareness and informing people. I am therefore very surprised that you are voting against it. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Information about how you look?- Oh, my God!]] Moreover, this is part of the strategy of the Climate and Energy Fund. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Abuse!]] Programme-accompanying measures are necessary, and these include specialist events, lectures and advertising – clearly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner]] Nothing else have I done and I will do to explain to the people how things stand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] By the way, a number of things are happening on the part of the department. The thermal rehabilitation has been addressed. It is certainly one of the most successful projects in this Federal Government, with which we generate €100 million in investments in approximately € 650 million. We know that the housing area is still one of the climate protection problem sectors. There is a multiple profit situation, because if energy costs are wasted in this area, the thermal renovation makes sense: The individual citizen saves money, which remains in the money market, and climate protection is also something is done. That is why we have concluded the Article 15a agreement with the federal states, so that the federal states, which have the large funds of housing support, can continue to make thermal renovation on a broad basis. All the federal states have committed themselves to this and will continue to do so. Within the framework of the campaign climate: active in my house, where we are trying, for example, to introduce new mobility management – many businesses are involved, and businesses are saying that they are doing something for environmental protection – we are able to save a total of more than 300 000 tonnes of CO2. Because you connect this here and distribute false reports concerning the JI/CDM program, that we support the sale of these certificates to nuclear power plants: That's as threatening as wrong, because that's not the case at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] You should know that we do not support nuclear power by buying these certificates. That's a edition of this program! You should know that. But what I recognize is that we are helping these countries – the Czech Republic as well as Slovakia – to build up alternative energy. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: They have to do this without our certificates!]] We were there when it was prevented that Bohunice – in the face of the gas crisis; They certainly remember – they were driven up. We must help these states, like Slovakia, in an energy partnership to increase renewable energy through Austrian environmental technology. That is what I stand for, and I will continue to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am surprised that you keep me under the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, although we have achieved a balance between economy and ecology in really tough negotiations. On the one hand, we allow hydropower as an important part of renewable energy in Austria – and I am – but at the same time we have safeguarded civil rights in nature and environmental protection and in all the procedures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] You know how the debate went. I therefore think it unreasonable if you represent this law here as a flop. On the contrary, I think it's an exemplary law. Ask all those concerned, they will tell you that too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It’s “only” EU-unlawful!]] It's the same thing if you're talking about a failure in flood protection. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Commission warning letter and so on!]] We are only in the middle of the work on the water management plan, where we have had a six-month public participation procedure. I do not know a procedure in which so many have been able to give their opinion for so long. We have 400 opinions from all the regions of Austria and we are working on this. There can be no failure, because this plan is under way, in the sense of public interest. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Explain this to the Commission!]] There too, my concern is that we bring economics and environmental aspects together. I believe that we have taken the path of a new quality of environmental protection, where we are not looking for the conflict on the streets as you might want, but rather making things sound, resolving the negotiating table, and this in the context of a progressive environmental policy. In conclusion: I continue consistently on that path which my predecessors have already taken as Minister for the Environment, namely the path of an offensive environmental policy that makes us a leader in many areas. As far as climate protection is concerned, we have to do more, no one is denying it. We will do so and will at least be an active part in the Copenhagen negotiations now under way – Austria in conjunction with the European Union – and our contribution to the protection of the global climate.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e11644	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e11666	Mr President. Mrs. Minister and Minister on the Government Bank! It is really gratifying that, at least what the presence is about to happen, the Federal Government seems to take the issue seriously, I say. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Next week is vacation again!]] The discussions, the contributions from you, Mr Environment Minister, or you, Mr Finanzminister, leave the matter to be desired. I'll talk about it in a moment, 'cause we'll have to discuss the matter. Mr Pröll, the Minister of Finance, you were the Minister for the Environment for the Environment for a long time: They trace the climate policy situation in Austria, our dependence on achieving the self-elected goals – the Bartenstein brand – to the fact that there is no longer any iron curtain at all. Schwuppdiwupp, the Iron Curtain is gone, and the CO2 goes up. Austria is a victim of the climate change situation because the Iron Curtain has fallen. Mr Finanzminister! I mean, excuse me, this argument speaks to you as hardly anything else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] From the time you were Environment Ministers, from the time when you may have personally published the report of the Federal Environment Agency, you know very well that in the transport sector of CO2 emissions has increased by at least 90 percent in recent years and that – and the Minister for the Environment knows this very well – tank tourism still has a significant share in it. Tank tourism, Minister of Finance, is the result of your oil tax policy. Yeah, it's simple. You don't say that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You are buying it, that you have to buy criminal certificates, that you have to pay pönales, that Austria is charged massive transport emissions, that we miss the climate protection target, that you take everything into account, essentially, the mineral oil tax is low – made by Pröll. And that's what's outrageous about us. And that's what brings me to the barricades, Minister of Finance. Second example: Today, as the Minister of Finance, I am still going to the Minister for the Environment, we will talk about the Pendler's Pauschale. [[Abg. Head: No threats, please!]] This was increased because the fuel price, the fuel price increased – a measure for itself. Mr. State Secretary Lopatka, who himself is sitting up here, has agreed here: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A physical!]] Now the petrol price has fallen again, but still we stay at the increased pendulum rate – nevertheless! Yeah, we're funding the CO2-emitting pendulum mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, you may not know, the Minister of Finance has spent more than €600 million a year – I wrote it out, it was €636.4 million in 2007 – in the form of the pendulum fee. I have nothing against the fact that one controls ecologically, also via the Pendlerenhilfe and Pendlerenpauschale, but to maintain an increase, although at the same time the fuel price has dropped, that is, as I mean, counter-climate policy, that is counter-CO2 emission reduction policy. This is even, I say to you, environmentally political and also socially negative, because it is those people who need it that do not receive a penalty, because it is not a withdrawal, it is advertising costs. That's the problem. And that's your policy, Minister of Finance. I could continue this for a long time. Mr Finanzminister, you are talking about Article 15a agreements with the federal states on the promotion of housing, and the Minister for the Environment also says that. At the same time, the Minister for the Environment answers a question as to how far it is really binding for the federal states to orient the housing and climate or environmental objectives towards reduced energy use, as follows: He could not legally guarantee compliance. There is no legal instrument if a federal state does not adhere to it. – This is the truth, Mr Environment Minister! Mr Finanzminister, this has been explained by you yourself in a reply to a question. Next Tag: Climate fund. – You called it the Climate Fund. Climate Fund – a heroate, 500 million; is extended, each 150 million. May I tell you what happens? I was a participant yesterday, unfortunately only very briefly, at the event “House of the Future”, sponsored or funded by this Climate Fund – great! There are pilot projects. As the Minister of Economic Affairs is sitting here: However, the pilot projects remain pilot projects, they do not become normal, say there is a pilot school, there is a house of the future for office buildings, there is a commercial building collection that is quite in the sense of climate protection – passive house standard et cetera –, there is a shelter, there is always a copy, there is a pilot copy, everything sponsored from the climate fund. However, the problem lies in: We have to do this normally. Then I go to the Building Committee, where the representatives of the Federal Property Society are present. On the question: What does the 08/15 school building look like now? What's it like for the university buildings? How are these climate or energy equipped?, it says: No, it's not a passive house construction, because it's not going to be a financial one! In fact, the ministries do not have the financial resources to pay a little higher rents and to be able to hire themselves into passive house buildings. That's why it's not possible. That's our problem! And I stay with this example because we have to keep time. I could continue the list for a long time. We have pilot projects, but these are not normally implemented. And this is due to your policy as a Minister of Finance and to your policy as an Environment Minister. I can document all of this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e11744	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e11767	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In my opinion, that Austria is the only country not reaching the Kyoto climate target is terrifying. Although the Kyoto Protocol does not provide for fines for non-compliance, an EU infringement procedure may well be initiated. The approximately €400 million for emission certificates, which Austria already – and we all know very well – has already planned for the closure of the gaps, should not be enough. According to Wifo experts Stefan Schleicher, around €200 million would be added. ==References== The following is to be read – I quote –: "However, Austria is the only country within the EU-15, which does not believe in its own assessment to fulfil its objective..., has confirmed Dimas. Efforts will have to be made to achieve this objective." Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr. Environment Minister! Both of them are now required to speed up the implementation of environmental policy failures, and there is also a need for a joint, united effort by the federal, state and economic authorities. And you yourself, Mr Environment Minister, said earlier that you are still planning a lot of things and will certainly lead a lot further in the way. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Better framework conditions for environmental measures for industry should be created and further promote support for climate-related measures in the industrial and private sectors as well. To reduce emissions, the use of fossil energy sources such as hydropower, windmills, wind power plants, global heat and so on is an absolute must. This means that investments in such energy sources need to be supported even more. Especially in industrialized countries such as Austria, measures that have a positive impact on the environment must not fail in financing. We have a duty to our children and grandchildren to leave them a viable environment. Therefore, the fight against climate change is a complete priority. Finally, Mr Environment Minister, I would like to ask you once again: Put in place energy policy measures worthy of an advanced country like Austria! And you, Minister of Finance, should also act better according to the motto: Invest in sustainability instead of blaming internationally.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e11820	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e11841	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Five to twelve years ago, it's all climate protection, that's no doubt. [[Abg. New builder: A climate change failure too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Contaminant!]] A few minutes ago, I was an Austrian diplomat from Canberra, Australia, and told me that in Micronesia in Tuvalu or Kiribati, it is already necessary to talk specifically about the settlement of hundreds of thousands of people of these islands, because there would be an increase in sea level by a meter under watering these islands. So this is about a bit more than the snow border in Kitzbühel or at Arlberg. So it is right that Copenhagen is perhaps the most important conference in these years. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens – Mrs Glavischnig is no longer here – I don't understand one at all – it has already been said, but I have to explain it: Dirty is washed at home, also political. Distrust and the like belong to parliamentarianism. But the Minister for the Environment, Mrs Brunner, is no longer there; a strangely urgent request from the Greens – to send the lead weight of a mistrust proposal to Copenhagen is perverse, politically unprofessional, taxed Austria and is the wrong thing to do, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Amon: Not there, Brunner not there, very embarrassing of the request!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We can afford climate protection. The Nicholas Stern, quoted by Mrs Glawischnig, has formulated that one percent of the economic performance needs to be successful in achieving climate protection, if you do it right, if, by the way, you judge climate change even after the cost, if you do not say that a hundred percent must happen at home, but: Where is climate protection best? And there I drive him! Let us not forget, because the Minister of Finance is also in the room: Dear Sepp Pröll, 5 percent, according to “economist”, have cost the saving of the World Bank system – 5 percent! – and we didn’t discuss it for a day. That was of course. 5 percent for bank rescue a year ago, one percent for climate protection – this relationship speaks volumes. We have to do it. Therefore: Let's do it! We need to do it to achieve something that is modest enough, because 2 degrees Celsius of temperature warming, which we have set here as the upper limit, are not so few anyway. So, with engagement, a comparatively not so great target by one percent of GDP. Austria is in no way in bad condition. A blamable performance is not at all the talk – something wrong has been written down by your club, Mrs Colleague – but Austria is also an active climate protection country that operates on the international average of industrialized countries. Berlakovich and Pröll performed this impressively. Let's not forget. We don't have nuclear power. Others don't. And a non-atomic country, with about 10 tons of CO2 per head in the middle of the industrialized countries, is already visible, even then, ladies and gentlemen, if you count on the topic of tank tourism here a little bit. Tank tourism is something smart not only for the Minister of Finance, but also for Austrian taxpayers. It is a business for Austria, because much more remains to be paid on mineral oil tax than can be paid for CO2 certificates. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Pönale!]] So let's stay with you, let's go. The fact that we are statistically charged with our climate balance is one thing. But it is just a statistical effect, because the Germans and the Italians who drink with us are doing quite the same kilometre and thus burden the climate pretty much whether they drink in Salzburg or in Freilassing. Looks like: Tank tourism, a statistical statement for 7 to 8 million tonnes of CO2. If it were not for tank tourism from statistics, we would also be good at Kyoto courses from statistics, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's why I addressed the tank tourism!]] One last: Mrs Moser, you are talking about self-made climate protection issues, say here that it must not be nuclear power at all. A little more realism of the Greens, that would be nice, apart from a little more presence, then also in a debate that you have initiated yourself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: I mentioned quite realistic examples: tank tourism!]] Take note that 100 percent climate protection at home is something that is expensive and we cannot afford. Take note that in any case, we do not even want to start discussing new taxes on the part of the ÖVP. This also applies to CO2 taxes, especially in recession times. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Note that 20 percent climate change target for industrial nations is very, very much when the Americans and the Chinese participate, perhaps also 30 percent. But a 40 percent self-commitment by Europeans is simply workplace and site damaging. And take note that it would be naïve to announce now in Copenhagen: We Europeans are paying the developing countries 110 billion. Do you know what that means internationally? - Early harvest. It's spent, the money's gone. And from there the European Union would have to negotiate with everyone else. So a little professionalism, a little look beyond your own edge of the plate and then maybe a little more presence at your own urgent requests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e11973	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e11994	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister at the Council of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Greens! The request made here by you is, to a large extent, not so bad a request; We have already brought in parts of it ourselves. Overall, however, the proposal is a little halfhearted and is also a little halfhearted. The applicant is here, loses the application, says a few words, and she is no longer present for the rest of the meeting. [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] Obviously, they are not interested in what others have to say about it. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You didn't listen to that, I'm sorry!]] And this shows a little bit of a moral picture and shows above all with what seriousness You really are dealing with this environmental policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Moser: It's also about: If I do something serious, if I make an extra urgent request here and bring it over here in a bumpy manner and then get it right away, then this shows me that the applicant is in fact not putting heart blood into this matter and it is obvious that the Greens are only doing so because they no longer have any other topic and because they somehow want to raise a bit of attention. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] – That is exactly what you have made with this request today! And this is our policy that comes from you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] But now to you, Federal Minister Pröll. – Mr Federal Minister Pröll, it is nice that you are making yourself here and start immediately with the following: They are so proud that Austria will pay 120 million in addition to development aid in the next few years. Mr Pröll, I am not proud that you are cutting the Austrian taxpayers to allow you to increase development aid – even if you look at the trade in these certificates. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Today in the Financial Times Germany: “billion fraud”. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper article up to date.]] So there's fraud going on. In addition to these certificates, there is also money where Austria pays € 40 million each year. Mr. Federal Minister, there's no money for anything. They are acting as Minister of Finance, and they are probably right in some cases. But that's where we have the money, that's where we add 40 million each year. – This is a policy that is wrong, and above all wrong, because you know very well that in many of these countries this money does not even come where you believe it belongs. In many of these countries, this money is then used for arms stores, or any Heads of Government are building up large palaces there. For climate protection, this does not matter at all – how at all this entire CO2 certificate history is something that goes completely beyond the meaning of the whole thing. What, please, should it be brought if I now check any certificates across the globe here and sell them when I look across the globe: Where is now a little more dirt and where less dirt?, but the emission rate is not reduced worldwide? That is a completely wrong approach! We can only save this globe if we manage to reduce CO2 emissions – if we want to! But obviously we don't want to. And I'm a little surprised, because I sometimes have the impression that, as well as not all experts, it is certain that the CO2 emissions are really caused by people, obviously also with our ministers who are negotiating here. That's exactly the problem: We are in favour of this CO2-certificate-in-resale being stopped immediately. That's what we want! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have already invested €500 million in exactly these things. Now very briefly on this motion for a reluctance, Mrs Brunner. We will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. You yourself have said that Mr Berlakovich can at least do so, he has only been in office for a year. If we had to file a motion of censure against someone, that would have been the former Minister for the Environment Bartenstein. He was the causer, he was the one who voluntarily signed a Kyoto Protocol, where he already knew at that time that we could not achieve it at all. At the time, one should have filed a motion of censure against him! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Federal Minister Berlakovich is the completely wrong target person. And if you think you want to meet a minister, you can still take the former Minister for the Environment Pröll, because he still said shortly before the new election: We will easily achieve the Kyoto target, which is no problem at all! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: We will achieve it!]] The vice chancellor just repeated it: We'll reach it, too. – I am already very excited about how we will have achieved this Kyoto target in 2012. We will only achieve it if we take much more money into our hands. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Mr Bartenstein, don't get upset! You stand out here, with a political morality free according to Bert Brecht: First, eat, and then the morale comes! It's meaty: Should everyone come to us and it's meaty to see if the CO2 emission values are higher with us! – This is exactly what you are doing, and this is a political morality that we reject. That's what you're doing here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It must, please, be the objective of Austrian environmental policy to make us permanently independent of fossil energy sources. Clearly, it is the inability of our environmentalists, who oppose it, because they refuse to take action on it. Wind power, hydropower, photovoltaics, solar thermals, biomass: All these are reusable energies that we have in Austria. But all these are totally neglected by you, you're not doing anything. We could have been on our way to an energy-autarchy country for a long time. But what do we do instead? – For example, we sponsor China. In China, the Austrian tax money will then be built solar plants, and the Chinese will probably have a cleaner and better environmental balance in the long term than we have in Austria, and the whole with the money of Austrian taxpayers! There's always money for that. And that is something to reject! Mr. Federal Minister, it's nice: You advertise that you have now doubled the promotions in photovoltaics. – That's very nice, that's right. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: I'm not serializing at all!]] You're very sure you've done this. – They advertise a lot at all. This federal government is even top in advertising. The last advertisement is a particularly beautiful, particularly interesting, truly meaningful advertisement of this federal government! [[showing a newspaper page on which a head is depicted, but no face can be seen, as the whole is made up of printed letters]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Who is this in the photo?]] You advertise that you have doubled the promotions! This is a nice step, a step in the right direction, but, Mr Federal Minister, that is far too little, we have to do much more, much more. We need much more in the field of the rehabilitation offensive! You yourself have said that, if you invest €100 million, €700 million in investment will be triggered. Yeah, that's good, but then we'll go on! Let's continue to invest in thermal renovation, instead of permanently bringing the money abroad! If we use the money in our own country, in times of the economic crisis, where we immediately created 1,700 jobs here according to your information, we will use once again so much money or three times as much money! This not only brings something to the environment in the long term, but it also creates jobs in its own country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, know Are you really how many people in Austria live in houses that are not renovated, how many people will soon be unable to afford the oil and the gas for heating? There's a lot to be done here! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: But the countries have many housing aids!]] And if you talk to the countries now, Minister of State, I have to say: You're the Minister! I'm asking you to move. You don't always go away! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Yes, but...!]] This is your area of competence, and you can also speak a word of power. I always have a bit of a feeling that you are always the lovely, friendly minister who doesn't dare to speak in the Council of Ministers so that he doesn't say anything wrong. Forget her kindness! Leave away the kindness, just put yourself through! Why don't you stand up for the environment? This is an essential issue, which is something that really moves people in this republic. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: I don't want to be unkind!]] You don't have to be unkind, you just have to have some hardness. And you also have to trust yourself to stand by. That's why I'd really ask you. The Greens' motion for distrust. – I have already said it: We do not agree with everything that the Minister does, and he may not be the minister who does a lot of work and does a lot of work in secret. But I think it's a bit funny that the Greens now, just before "Copenhagen", want to put a motion of censure to the Minister so that he might negotiate worse there and then you can put yourself out here again and say again: It's all bad in Austria! I think this is the absolutely wrong way, because one, I think, is very necessary: We must also strengthen the back of the Austrian Parliament to the Federal Minister. And I think the soup is a little too thin that you touched here today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Honestly, Mrs. Glavischnig: If you want to distrust someone, you should look in your own ranks. What about the green “Oberguru”, Mr. Wabl, who himself has publicly said, is he using atomic current? Have you already expressed this mistrust to Green-Internal? [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is a terrible nonsense!]] Put up in your own rows, and then you may also become a little more credible!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e12248	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e12269	Mr President. High house! Mr. Environment Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor or, more specifically, Mr. Minister for Leisure and Leisure, allow me to express this. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm glad you're all here today. This is a very rare picture that the government is once almost closed on the government bank. The Federal Chancellor is missing – otherwise the picture would be perfect. I don't want to make a mistake. Mr Berlakovich, you have certainly implemented some good things, and, in the opposite, the opposition also has the right to in certain things imitate how to make Austria more energy-autarchic, how to free Austria from imports of natural gas, coal and from abroad. But there are also many things that have not yet happened. There are homework, and there are many of them. But perhaps the Minister for Leisure and Leisure is also to blame because he has not done some things in advance. To “Copenhagen. ” – ‘Copenhagen’ is to be the successor programme for Kyoto after 2012. In Copenhagen, 92 countries are represented, 80 Heads of Government are there, the Federal Chancellor and also the Environment Ministers will be there, but unfortunately only two days. The problem will be to bring the emerging economies together with the industrialized countries. This will not be so easy because, on the one hand, emerging countries – South Africa, Brazil, China, India – are looking to get money to implement environmental measures, climate action, and on the other, countries such as the USA, Australia are not prepared to participate in CO2 trading at all. But the goal must be – and this is also undisputed for experts – to reduce 95 percent of CO2 emissions by 2050, so that we still have a chance not to raise climate warming above 2 degrees. There will have to be measures, and I would like to hear these measures, Mr Environment Ministers. What does Austria stand for, what does Austria bring in there? I have heard, the protection of the forest, the rainforest will be a topic, but also the support of emerging countries with 7.2 billion, and I see this similar to that of the colleague Belakovich: That development aid must be handled very carefully and the money should first be used in Austria in order to drive projects forward here. Finally, there have been wars about oil, about gas, but also about uranium. And if we become more self-sufficient here, if we are ever better able to take care of ourselves, then this is the best peace and social policy you can make worldwide. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's my personal opinion. But it will also be necessary to establish a clear position on nuclear power in Copenhagen. I didn't hear anything about that either. We're talking about Temelín, we know that Berlusconi wants to build up to four new nuclear power plants. What position does the government have, what position will the Copenhagen government take on this? The nuclear power is not the all-healing energy, and it is also finally and above all extremely dangerous. And above all, one must not happen: That one can purchase with nuclear power also of certificates, free from the trade in certificates. The certificates are a separate chapter. We know that if we voluntarily commit ourselves to comply with the Kyoto objectives, that will be very expensive for Austria. The Court of Auditors and the Federal Environment Agency speak of up to 5 billion – not only of one billion, as has been said today, but of up to 5 billion of criminal payments due. Do you know what you can do with 5 billion? That's the one thing, the penalty, and I hope it won't happen. [[Abg. Head: Such a nonsense has not even spoken the woman Glavischnig: 5 billion!]] The second is: It's also about buying the certificates that we have to buy anyway. They'll cost around a billion more. So here we are talking about sums – 2 billion, in the worst case 5 to 6 billion – that the taxpayer will have to use because this federal government was unable to ensure that we do not need these allowances in time. That means we need to use more renewable energy to achieve more energy efficiency. The certificates must be questioned in principle. The Transnational Institute has conducted a study: Why carbon trading failed? Why did the carbon trade fail? The point is that, in the end, emissions in Europe could not be reduced by the trade in certificates. You have to say that. This is just a shift in the problem: He who is cleaner sells certificates to him who's a little dirtyer who's more polluting the environment. But in total, it's a zero-sum game for the environment, say renowned scientists. Others believe that the trade in certificates is anyway a CO2 casino, where ultimately abuse can happen. We've heard this this week. There were around 5 billion tax evasions in the trade in certificates in Europe – 5 billion in the last 18 months! I believe that tax fraud with the trade in certificates should be prevented especially in times of the climate crisis and therefore the instrument should be questioned in general. It would be much better to do the homework, and the homework is what I require. We have a federal government, which looks at nuclear power, is gentle, gentle at EU level to TemelÃn, gentle to Italy, but which does not even get properly on the table. We have a federal government that has not done the homework in far-reaching areas. We know that, for example, in the field of renewable energy, wind power has been close for three years; it is similar in the field of photovoltaics. Look for Bavaria: Bavaria is a World Photovoltaic Master – on every house, on every barn is a photovoltaic system! That's not possible with us... – That's very useful! [[Call the ÖVP: Is that useful?]] I say this in the direction of ÖVP, because there the banks – even Raika could do it – have, together with the farmers, created a new source of income and rented the roofs from the farmers, which then sell electricity over the banks. This is a great business, even for the Raika, also for the Sparkasse. Do it at last, you just need to do it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grill: That's what happens anyway!]] The example lives, a few kilometers from Austria. – That was said in the direction of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Grill: That's what happens anyway! Haven't you noticed that yet? We have been doing this for 20 years, Mr. Cot.]] But the homework is missing. What about the new Energy Efficiency Act, which is much praised, but which is still not implemented? We have an eco electricity law, which is actually an eco electricity prevention law, Mr. Col. von der ÖVP. I emphasize: an eco electricity prevention law! It is not safe to build sustainable installations because the funding is in dispute. What about the removal of the climate fund? The climate fund has been cleared. This is where the money is awarded twice for the thermal renovation. This makes a Mickey-Mouse programme with 100 million, with a multiple need in Austria, as has already been mentioned. What about it – the Minister of Science is not here – to also promote research and development in innovative techniques in Austria? What about innovative solar technology, with solar architecture, with electric mobility, with solar design? These are areas of activity of the future, where Austria sleeps and also fails to connect. What about actually unifying the construction regulations in Austria, not only with voluntary agreements between the federal states, which cannot be executed in order to ensure the appropriate values and minimum standards in the case of houses, with the energy code? What about the Climate Change Act? A lot of praised, announced – then the elections come, and it's gone! Minister for the Environment, that is, Austria is waiting for the Austrian energy strategy for a year, because it is ultimately a question of making Austria more independent, of making energy supply sustainable, of securing jobs and of creating security of energy supply. It's about Austria, and that's why I'm asking you: Finally, start doing something here!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e12373	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e12394	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Unquestionably, Austria is a country without nuclear power plants, Austria is free of genetic engineering in cultivation, and we have done a lot in water protection in recent years, even no question. And this has to do with green concerns and green politics. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, but one thing is clear as well: The fact that there is a failure of 20 years of ÖVP Environment Ministers who have failed to implement Kyoto's commitments. And there's nothing to smile about, either, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. - Yes, Wolfgang! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll:... Wolfgang!]] Mr Pröll, these personal talks do not help, either, if you are unable and willing to draw the necessary conclusions and take action. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: He's called Wolfgang!]] Mr Bartenstein, you are talking about unprofessional politics, and I must say one thing to you: You have negotiated Kyoto, and you come out here and defend the tank tourism in Austria! This is a capitulation, a capitulation before a market liberalism that does not know what the necessary steps are to secure sustainable economy. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Before who?]] To ensure sustainable is to shape the future. Mr Bartenstein, that is not what this government is doing, certainly this Environment Minister is not doing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Berlakovich, what have you been offering so far? What were your offers? They're talking about a virtual human chain. Virtual policy – that can't be it, but we want real steps, we want real implementation. There are, in fact, dubious documents that prove that these failures, though perhaps unconscious, are not even foreign to the Minister. They're just too familiar to him. I just want you here... [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich:... Human Chain!]] Mr. Federal Minister, the time of lip confession is over. We must regain the Nimbus of an environmentally conscious state and people. – I assume that the MEPs of the ÖVP understand and agree, Mr Bartenstein. Isn't that what fact is? It is a quote from a representative of the Federal Minister. He himself says that we have long lost this status of the environmental model country. That is a fact, and I am right for you, Minister of State. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Wolfgang, I'm really disappointed! I really overestimated you!]] But it can't be that you're shoving behind a policy that doesn't understand anything but to turn ads on. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go!]] Don't say, "Go!" Mr. Vice chancellor! There are also colleagues from the agricultural sector who have been observing this for a long time. I quote an editor-in-chief of the largest argarmedium in Austria, and he writes: The revitalisation of the Ministry of Agriculture after a one-year period of work, combined with new visions, initiatives and projects that also give young farmers hope, would be necessary. To this end, a minister who not only awards decent prices for the photo, but makes again themes, expresses unpleasant facts where necessary, makes quick decisions, allows him to discuss with him, and no longer confuses public relations with the placement of expensive ads in urban Boulevard magazines. [[Abg. Grill: Who wrote this?]] These are not the greens, but that is the largest agricultural medium in Austria. They've seen you don't work for a long time. You don't even work in the agricultural resort. And if you sit here and say, Yes, organic farming, and we are doing everything possible is done!, I have to tell you: They are responsible for the entry stop in organic farming in Austria with November 2009! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have to answer that! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That's incredible. The Minister says that 50 percent of energy could be saved. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== And what does he do? - Just the opposite: He leads organic farming to the dead end. He is leading exactly that development, for which we have fought in Austria, to an end. Where are the concepts? [[Abg. Grill: Pirklhuber, much has not come to your mind! The Greens have really died!]] A little more to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: We asked you to present the concepts, finally put the secret paper on the table and discuss it together with the other political groups. The SPÖ has recognized it. You have clearly stated in your speech that the failure of environmental policy must finally be resolved. So our distrust of this policy is more than right! Our opinion regarding your failure is also currently shared by your government partner, rightly in our opinion. That is why we are expressing our distrust for you today. This is not tactically unfair with regard to Copenhagen, but here it is a great challenge to put forward and discuss the concepts of the future, for example in development policy. [[Abg. Grill: You don't have a future!]] Europe has a responsibility to the poorest, to Africa; these are those countries that are most affected by climate change. [[Abg. Grill: You have no future, you live by the past!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] To this end, you have not submitted any really efficient measures, discussed no measures and not discussed them in the public. [[Abg. Grill: You haven't thought of anything to this day!]] No, you want to have the additional climate protection measures taken in the context of development aid – it is not as you said it; it is in this secret paper, we have it of course – and that is simply unacceptable. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: This is not a secret paper!]] [[Abg. Grill: These are the arguments! Learning so little in life is unimaginable!]] This is not a future policy, but it is a past client policy without a future character! We express our distrust with you, Federal Minister. Take a seat at last! Make room for a restart in environmental policy in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e12656	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e12677	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to mention that it would be important to speak with a tongue in Copenhagen as a Federal Government and, I think, also as a Republic. It is certainly not appropriate if we are dealing with a corresponding distrust request in this debate today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that we must reduce emissions massively, that is perfectly clear. Many now think – unfortunately so-called experts – that the right answer is to have found the right solution. The answer is: a new construction of nuclear power plants, the expansion of nuclear power plants, see Temelín! I think – and this is above all the clear position of social democracy – that it is not the right way, but the wrong one when it comes to nuclear power plant expansion. We believe that it is more sensible to use financial resources to support developing countries so that these developing countries can also invest in research. I think that's important all over the world. It is also important to support research – especially when it comes to promoting alternative energy generation. It is gratifying that, as we have heard today, the European Heads of Government have agreed to set up this fund, at least with over €7 billion. Austria will – and we have heard this today – participate accordingly. There is also the discussion in Copenhagen that after 2013, it will be necessary to set up a general global climate assistance fund. One is now talking about a donation of € 100 billion. I believe that this fund is also important. Above all, we industrial nations have a very important pioneering role to play. One way to obtain additional financial resources would be to create a new tax – not a tax in Austria, but a tax on the energy production that is going on in nuclear power plants. This is a subject, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Mr Minister, to whom I believe it would be useful to consider also with the colleagues of the government, to introduce a corresponding tax so that we can also introduce this tax to this international climate protection fund. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Sarkozy is sure to support this!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me also to say a few sentences to Temelín, not only because I am a Member of the Border Region, but because, I think, this is extremely important for Upper Austria and for all of Austria. In recent years, in recent months, we have discussed a lot about the consequences of the Milk Agreement and what arrangements we have made. It was also agreed, among other things, that a parliamentary Commission should be set up. It has been agreed that security experts on the Czech side and in Austria jointly draw up a list of those areas in which there are security problems. It was then agreed in Milk that all these safety problems will be resolved. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not been eliminated very much! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: But there's your government to blame!]] Not only more than a hundred incidents show reality. That is why, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr Umweltminister, it is necessary and important to take action and talk to colleagues from the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e12733	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e12756	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of her explanatory statement of the urgent question – the urgent request, thank you – Mrs Glawischnig asked the question: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It was an application!]] What are the Austrians most afraid of?, and this answered in this way: from climate change! Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig! I have listened very carefully to your speech, and I think that now as far as the fears of the Austrians are concerned, there is a new question to be asked: What are the Austrians afraid of when it comes to combating climate change? – The answer would probably be: Before your policy, which you presented here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is undoubtedly so that you have brought nothing but old-known attires here to the High House. You have spoken badly of the policy that Austria has begun in recent years, I believe, and now continues with the Federal Minister, and you have complained that there are too many ads. I don't think it's too many; it's probably too few, so you too can be convinced, but some people don't get anything. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Too few ads?]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] In the end, they have even been worried about the Christian child, about the Christmasgans and whatever, and have also found that loud fairy tales are told here. Finally, Mr. Federal Minister, you really don't have it easy! – it is then also complained that you give Mrs Glawischnig too little affection or dates and that you are too hard on Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein again. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No, no, it's about public discussions!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Mrs Brunner from Burgenland does not think anything about you at all because she wants to get rid of you at last, she has no hope of you bringing something forward in environmental policy. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is a summary...!]] There are, however, thanks to God also statements that have proved the opposite – as Mr Vice-Chancellor has said – and which show what has been very successful for Austria in environmental policy and climate policy. The Federal Minister has also rightly explained what has been achieved in the field of climate and environmental policy. I may add a few clues – I'm afraid you'll probably have forgotten it again tomorrow, but I'm just saying it because of the repeat value, and maybe another one also says: It was the EIA law novelle, it was the novel of the Emissions Certificate Act to introduce air transport from 2012 on into the Emissions Trading System, the extension of the Environmental Senate, the Environmental Liability Act and much more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If Mrs Brunner turns out here with a very, very moderate argument for not wanting to see the Federal Minister in this office anymore, then I am not only disappointed as a Burgenländer that this does a Burgenländerin vis-à-vis the Burgenländer Niki Berlakovich. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Can't you do that with Burgenländer?]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] I could handle that, Mrs. Brunner. But you would have to know that this Federal Minister Berlakovich had already made a green policy as the Council of State in Burgenland, there you were still sitting in the meadow and dreamed of anything! [[Abg. Neubauer:... Chernobyl was irradiated!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] We have implemented precisely these measures in the Burgenland with National Councillor Niki Berlakovich, which he now speaks of as visions for Austria, that we create energy autarchy. [[Call at the BZÖ:Visions are dangerous in this government!]] We're on a good way. In the Burgenland, we have probably put a sign with the wind power and are 80 percent of the energy from wind power. We've built a lot of district heating systems. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Not because of the ÖVP, but despite the ÖVP!]] We have many other areas. You, Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig, have called Güssing yourself a model city – by the way, with an ÖVP mayor, under an ÖVP council and now under the ÖVP Federal Minister Berlakovich! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These are the successes we can show. The Austrian People's Party does not dream of any virtual environmental policy. We live them, and Federal Minister Niki Berlakovich is the best guarantee for this because he has proved in the Burgenland that he can and that he will also implement it at the federal level. If you don't trust him, it's almost a compliment. But most of the Austrian population and the people who make politics here in this House trust him, and that is why our support applies to him. Thank you, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We can only encourage the Minister to continue this course, which has already been discussed today, from Minister Bartenstein to Minister Molterer, to Minister Pröll, who is now Vice-Chancellor and who leads Austria successfully, also in environmental policy, to our Federal Minister Niki Berlakovich. [[Abg. Brosz:... you forgot!]] If the Greens don't think anything else but that they want to replace the Minister, and don't put in any really feasible proposals themselves, that's true for you in your policy, but it hurts me in the soul that you don't have to wait any longer than Austria just to approach. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right, because he doesn't do anything!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What did he do?]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: (a document in height) Here is the proposal! That's the request!]] Get in there, Mrs. Brunner! If you – I don't know, with the wheel, with the ship, or swim there, because you don't want to fly with the pilot – come to Copenhagen, work to make Austria's common policy and that the goals we set with our Federal Minister will also be represented there in common! Then you really serve this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13004	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13025	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! One thing you have to say: If you have had a signed protocol signed by Austria since 1991 and in 2009 it seems that we are finally in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, then you have to admit quite openly that you have made mistakes! Then either one has not recognized the signs of time, or one has simply underestimated this development, even that may be. But then at least today one has to face up to development, one has to face up to responsibility and cannot pretend to be all right. The environmental report, which has been kept very open, has clearly demonstrated what dilemma we are facing today. To do here today, as if everything were fine and as if it were not so bad with the certificate trading, even a business for Austria – ladies and gentlemen, let's leave the church in the village, even that's a real swindle of course! The Freedom Party also believes that this should be abolished. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We of the liberals have always said that we want to make this beautiful Austria energy autonomous. We want a trend change here, we want to minimise the dependence of Austria on energy from abroad. Ladies and gentlemen! If I read that 500 times fewer photovoltaic systems were built in Austria alone in 2006 in relation to Germany, then you have to adjust here! Then you just have to say: There's something wrong here, and here we need to catch up. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore propose, on behalf of the Liberal Group, the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to accept our request.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13080	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13138	Next speaker: Mr Linder. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13159	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! A little bit I miss out on your side, when my colleague, Clickovits, says: [[towards SPÖ]] Vice chancellor Pröll leads the government wonderfully! - But obviously you've already gotten used to it. We have heard so much about renewable energy today: how important it is to us, how much it brings to the environment and to the climate balance, and how important it is for farmers as an alternative income. Nevertheless, I am surprised when I then hear with what joy, with which specifically by the colleagues of the ÖVP represented, defended and promoted yesterday the subject of Nabucco. The topic of Tauern gas pipeline also finds very many advocates in your ranks. I would like the government, with the same sustainability as it stands behind the gas project, to act against the plan of the Italians who are planning to build a nuclear power plant in the Upper Italy region, very close to the Carinthian border, in the Udine region, a nuclear power plant whose construction is scheduled to take place in 2013. This would mean, for us, that we would receive a second nuclear power plant in the earthquake area next to Krško. That is why I am submitting the following motion for a resolution. ‘The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to take all the measures that are appropriate to prevent the establishment of a nuclear power plant in Upper Italy and thus in close proximity to Carinthia and to enter into immediate discussions with the Italian Government.” I can also imagine very well that we are exporting our knowledge, our know-how in the field of renewable energy and solar energy – with GREENonec, one of the largest manufacturers in the field of solar energy – to Italy in order to help the Italians get away from nuclear power to renewable energy. The head of the Austrian Chambers of Agriculture Wlodkowski has recognized the importance of renewable energy. He writes in a press release: “They are also clearly opposed to a reduction in the EU agricultural budget, as in the future, apart from food security, new tasks, such as climate protection or renewable energy, will also increasingly be assigned to agriculture,” said Gerhard Wlodkowski, President of the LK Austria.” He also says: "Whoever is therefore dependent on food and energy in the strategic areas is also politically extortionable. Therefore, in the future, both energy and food supplies are necessary.” – It is very good that he has recognized this. At the last Agriculture Committee meeting, I allowed myself to ask the Minister how far it is with the resources in this direction: How much money do we have for investments in agriculture, but also for investments in renewable energy? – I was told at the time that there was enough funds available. The Minister also held the 10th meeting of the Council of Ministers. It was written in a press release on December that it is very important for farmers to have stable framework conditions and planning security. It is certainly also wonderful to know that, especially in this field, in the field of renewable energy, we are getting planning security and know that there is enough money – until then our Agricultural Councillor Dr. Martinz, Party colleague and party chairman of the ÖVP in Carinthia, has sent us “that the EU co-financed funds provided for this in rural development are already spent at the end of May due to the rainy investment activity”. The Minister also writes that there are restrictions “no longer supported the construction of biomass heating plants.” [[Call the ÖVP: Where is that?]] I believe, Minister, that you are very far from this planning certainty! I think it would make more sense, at a time when we are negotiating carbon dioxide balances, in which we are discussing the need to spend money on punishment payments, to finance and promote biomass heating with these means, to do something good on the one hand, but on the other hand, to give farmers an alternative income. Check that money is being made available in this direction!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13204	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13225	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard a lot about this issue today. The importance of climate and environmental protection for all of us has been expressed by all speakers. In order to assess how Austria deals with this issue, how our ministers in particular deal with this issue, the whole range was tried from model student to follow-up student. I think the reality and truth will probably lie in the middle. It is indisputable that Austria is certainly doing a lot to get closer to the climate targets. It is also clear that not all homework has yet been completed, but this is, of course, a process that is going on over a longer period of time. We can prove that the government is taking a lot of money to achieve these climate targets. The fact that it could be even more is also clear, but I think everyone working in other political bodies knows that there is not an infinite amount of money and that we have to deal with what is available. I am sorry that I think we have to spend too much on emissions certificates from abroad. I would also like to know if we could invest this money in Austria. The thermal rehabilitation action was a superaction that also arrived very well. It's a shame we can't continue. Mr Finanzminister! I would just ask that we do everything we can to continue this positive action in the future, because it has brought something not only to the environment, but, of course, to small and medium-sized enterprises, to jobs. That would be very positive. I would just like to point out one aspect that has not yet been mentioned: E-mobility would also be mentioned, for which we would have to use even more money for research, development and even for first projects that are already in progress. Mrs Brunner, all in all, I believe that your motion of censure has been a little thin. If you express a mistrust to a Minister because you can't blame him, then that's a little too little for a mistrust request. We will not allow this to happen from the SPÖ. On the contrary: We will strengthen our Minister's backs so that he can negotiate in Copenhagen in the next few days.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13284	The motion for a resolution previously tabled by Mr Linder is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13336	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13357	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Increasing energy consumption, increasing traffic volumes and increasing volumes of waste are unfortunately unpleasant accompaniments of economic growth and increasing prosperity. This is not only the case in Austria. However, the objective of successful environmental policy cannot be to slow down economic growth. The objective of successful environmental policy cannot be to hinder our prosperity development, but rather to decouple the development of CO2 emissions from economic growth, and the objective of successful economic and environmental policies must also be to increase the CO2 efficiency of our economy. We can say that Austria is particularly successful in this effort. Austria is in third place what the CO2 efficiency of our economy is about! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So we are anything but the final light, but we are at the forefront of development, and there we want to stay. Ladies and gentlemen, some other countries have it easy. They're building nuclear power plants. However, this does not apply to all those who claim to be built, such as in this motion for a resolution. So some are building nuclear power plants. Other “profit” – under quotations – from the collapse of their heavy industry, in turn, “profit” others – including under quotations – from the under-average economic development of their country. Austria doesn't have that easy. We start at a very high level of efficiency. We do not want nuclear power and we want to continue to do so with all vehemence. We do not want to give up our prosperity either. That means: Yes, we are a bit far away from our goal, which we have set ourselves nationally and to which we have also committed ourselves internationally. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: A bit far? How big is a piece?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must work hard. However, in Copenhagen it is not primarily about Austria; in Copenhagen it is about a total effort in Europe in particular, so that we can get America into the boat so that we can get China into the boat and that they are finally ready to make a commitment, just as Europe has long done. We do not save the world climate by desisting from prosperity in Europe. We also do not save the world climate with a disproportionately high contribution from Europe. Let us remember: The pan-European CO2 emissions are just a low double-digit, 10% of the world's CO2 emissions. So even with a disproportionately large contribution from Europe, we are not saving the world climate. However, what we need in Copenhagen, ladies and gentlemen, are strong European Environment Ministers, strong European Heads of Government. And what are the greens doing? – They try to weaken the Austrian Environment Minister with a mistrust request, thus weakening the entire European environmental policy. Ladies and gentlemen! That is the most absurd thing you can do a few days before this important conference. This Minister for the Environment, our Minister for the Environment, does not deserve to be distrusted, but he deserves to be strengthened with all our confidence to go to Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13406	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. Your group's remaining speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13427	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You said since 2003 the old record. [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: The plate even has a jump!]] I fear what has been said by the speakers of your group, lastly by Klubobmann Kopf, is an even older record, and that is the tragedy. It is precisely this record leader that has led Austria to fall behind the status of an actual environmental leader country and to become a final light in many ways, not only in terms of its own climate targets, but also in many other areas and in the central area – oh embarrassment! – is really the final light. And you have to answer that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Or do you want to explain now that the opposition at the time when the Kyoto Protocol was adopted somehow digressed side by side? – No, you may have been ambitious, but you were at least reasonable. However, they have left the way of reason and have at the same time also given a huge chance. It's not even about Austria in Copenhagen, thank God. That's what you've done most recently. That may be the case, but it is a very great economic opportunity for us at the same time when climate protection is important. And she's being rejected too! This will continue to be awarded year after year, and you will have to answer as an alleged economic party. They have been making the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for the Environment, for years, and that is why this request for distrust in this area is simply and simply justified. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] – Yes, yes, both of you have to answer. You're reporting at the right time! Now it has to take on Berlakovich. I don't know if that's why such a handicap exists in Copenhagen. I do not know your weight in Copenhagen, but my knowledge is that EU troika is negotiating there. [[towards Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] [[Abg. Head: Then why is Ms. Brunner going to Copenhagen?]] Nevertheless, we have to debate in the House what Austria has done. We have to discuss this, and that is why it is also justified to lay down once the balance sheet you are responsible for. We have weighed this and have come to this conclusion. Look, if we fall back everywhere, become final in the crucial point and are only in one point first, only in one, in tax waste and misuse for ads...... this is also a reason of distrust. [[Abg. Grosz: Here we are top riders!]] It's really a cleaner, the people who can't even defend themselves from trading with their own money when they have to open up the newspapers and read what's going on there. That's incredible! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the BZÖ.]] This will also have further consequences. We won't let that happen. This is far away from any correct use of tax money! That's what you want to represent? - No, I'm telling you: In fact, this must be paid back by the ÖVP from its party bank. Otherwise, the motto applies: Repayment or withdrawal.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13522	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now have a total of five amendments to vote. We come to the vote on the self-employed amendment 922/A(E) tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues on the 'Climate blockade – more money for climate protection'. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – The application does not find a majority. Rejected. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management in accordance with Rule 74(l). 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to do so. – The request is rejected. [[Congratulations and Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Head and Abg. Amon:Klubobmann Bucher and Deputies Scheibner were not there!]] We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gartelgruber, ladies and gentlemen, on Austria's exit from emissions trading. If you're for that, I'll ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on eco electricity law. If you are in favour of the motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Linder, fellow Members, on the urgent need for measures to prevent nuclear power plants in Upper Italy. If you're here, I'll ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority. Rejected. [[18:53:05]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13598	I now take the negotiations on the 6th. Agenda item again. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13622	Mr President. - Who remains on the government bank? [[Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka: Me! As always!]] – Mr State Secretary, the very large item on the agenda contains several changes to the former so-called banking package. I am forwarding that the Green Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, of course, welcomed the rescue measures taken at the time, and we also agreed. However, one or the other has not, in the consequence, presented itself in a way that we have imagined, or could have made it possible to do so in the way of the regulation. That is why we will not agree to some of the points of the overall package either. That's going to be You may not be surprised now, but I am telling you that on this occasion you have given some opportunities to re-adjust. Let's start there – Mr. Vice-Kanzler is just there – that when the bank package was applied in the early spring of this year, the chiefs of Raiffeisen and First Bank also performed in an chordd action in great “ZiB 2” interviews and claimed that this would be a big business for the state. All right! A big business for the state! – Well, let's count on it! I'm surprised you've gotten caught up in this nonsense, because this bank package was not originally tied up to make it a big business for the state. Rather, the motives were, in case large banks are getting things to slip, to be able to put up relatively fast catch-ups over night when it has to be. I guess that was the idea. You then put the people back on the wrong ferry, but it was reserved for you to sell it as a big business, and of course that's not the end of it. I then come to the hypo to speak; we kindly leave the municipal credit out. In today's context, by the way, we would have had the opportunity to really improve a few things and not just extend them. What would that be? – That we, as legislators, are actually proposing a few conditions which the Ministry of Finance obviously does not want to specify in the negotiations with the banks partout, or that we look at the FIMBAG system – a terrible word, I know. To the orientation: This is a subsidiary of the ÖIAG which has to deal with the Article 2 provisions, i.e. the participation of the State in the capital of the banks. What was in December, exactly a year ago? – The central bank, especially the FIMBAG and the Ministry of Finance, have found – that is why we are right now to have the EU at the neck – that things are probably so situated in the Hypo Alpe-Adria that they can be considered as a healthy bank and that is why – since they were so, and they are still in the books – 900 million euros in equity of the state. Not that it would have been so that if we had had the real findings about the Hypo Alpe-Adria, it might have cost us less. I'm not saying that! I'm just wondering how the system works, where long ago it had to be obvious that certain things could not be like the hypo board. And I do not understand why they did not at the time push for such conditions as the EU would have planned in the course of the granting of participation capital. That's what we're obliged to do! This has, however, been neglected. For me, this is the best example of the fact that the implementation of this bank package has been far too lazily and inconvenient. You have to answer that, and you should explain it today, by the way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the main committee, according to the law, reports on action are quartal. They're not good yet, but they're getting better. That's what we've already found. However, what you have said to Hypo Alpe-Adria there so far, you will have to correct this beautifully today. From the first day, we have put our finger in the wound and asked how it can even be that this has been so decided on by this bank. We might have saved one or the other if we had been on it in time. I'm still looking forward to a corresponding reconnaissance, because in the end it can't be like that – and I come to the overall hypo – that a federal state with its liabilities blows up its own bank, which can then carry out any business anywhere, while financing its own event policy in the country with it. However, the liabilities cannot really be settled by the country in the form, because with a budget of a few billion euros, like in Carinthia, to assume liabilities for 18 billion euros, something is wrong. It has always been negotiated and signed with crossed fingers, at the expense of the Austrian taxpayers, because, of course, one has always known at the same time that the Republic is behind it. Quite logical! It is no different because we do not even have an insolvency right for the federal states. We might need that in this case, you should look at it. – Yes, you nod. [[towards ÖVP]] I've heard in the last few weeks that you can't taste that way. 18 billion €! And the markets have also taken on this because for the bonds that the mortgage gives, the liability is assumed and because the buyers obviously knew that at the end of the day the Republic is always liable, so we, that is, the taxpayers are liable. It can't be in the sequence. Now we all stand and say that the owners should fulfill their responsibility, and if they don't, then the taxpayer's liability will be beating. In fact, in the future, the Republic of Austria must look at the federal states, which are their obligations, namely, only to the maximum extent that they can bear. Otherwise, it is the federal budget that is being burdened, and nothing else. That's a very bad situation of the special class. I wonder why we've never been there before. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it had to be Carinthias again that made us fail. And that, in this situation, there is still a mass distribution of benefits at foreign costs, is something I wonder: How long do they want to watch? I believe that the Republic not only needs to record this match, it must also be clarified. By Sunday is still time, because on Monday the bank is overrun, that's quite clear. But now that the Republic is taking over everything in the course of the probable partial or general stateization of this bank, I would already consider, Mr State Secretary, whether and to what extent the Federal State of Carinthia is not being stopped at first – let us be careful – to put all that into the scales, which it still has. Now to the Future Fund. – I have taken out the quotes, I do not have them now, but I can tell you, in a sense, what the head of state in 2005 voted for, as the future fund has been taught in a rather strange way, namely that this is the benefit of the Hypo Alpes-Adria being the most successful regional bank in Central Europe, if not at all in Europe. You can get these quotes. Just a moment ago, it was exclaimed: Carinthia is rich! – The only one who once became rich was Mr. Tilo Berlin and were those who were in his consortium. By the way – I hate to say so, but it is true – the President of the Industrial Union, Mr. Veit Worger, who now has a Supervisory Board job in FIMBAG, who made sure ten, twelve months ago that this bank gets the €900 million loosely; perhaps in the hope that it will still be expected that the questions that are now to be asked will not be raised afterwards. But we'll put them. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But the sale was good!]] – The sale was good among certain outcasts then, if one has found where a “student” is, but they can no longer be liked now, because the “students” are the Austrian taxpayers at the end. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In Bavaria, we see what's going on, they are quite right to make an investigation committee. And that there must have been an agreement there between the then head of the BayernLB, Tilo Berlin, and others are obvious, otherwise all this is not going to happen at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] You just need to calculate. I do not know if it is your strength, Mr Petzner, to calculate it, but I tell you that it can only have been so, and there will be no doubt about it. We do not need the Committee of Inquiry to do this anymore, you do not need to fear that one will come, because the matter will usually be resolved about Munich. I'm talking about something else: How can we keep the damage to Austrian taxpayers as low as possible? – It’s only two days, and that’s why I demand that Carinthia put everything on the table that’s to be placed on the table. That's the point! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We don't have to sleep with it, we all have it in our ears: Carinthia is rich! – Either it is so, then come with it, or it is not, then it will be good when the truth comes to the table. All of this should be clarified in the next two days. But that much of it could be done in the course of this bank package, with a FIMBAG, which, from my point of view, is completely overcharged, you will no longer be able to dispute. The fact that the central bank has not made a good figure will probably be true, but we have explicitly pointed out and asked what it is like in this procedure, who can appreciate everything at all. If it comes to the conclusion that a rapid expertise of the central bank is sufficient, based on some representations of board members, although already not so immigrants have known that some of the business cases with the Hypo Alpe-Adria are in place, then you can't explain this to me. Finally, the Ministry of Finance is also responsible for the fact that the responsible parties give the signature for this matter. The FIMBAG usually only settles. The chance to get a little clearer structures left them out. I just hope there are no more such cases. But that all this is going to be a business, you won't be able to tell anymore. - And woe, you're gonna turn an listing!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13720	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13742	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is the main content of this law has already been implemented by previous speakers, and above all the extension of the so-called banking package is a crucial issue. I would like to add some of the questions raised by Mr Kogler. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have no joy of harm if the problem of Hypo Alpe-Adria is so problematic. I have no joy of harm, either, if the country of Carinthia is completely in the corner of the budget. However, I already have some questions in this regard. First question: Who was responsible for the management, the Management Board and the Supervisory Board in this bank? Not only the management, not only the board of directors, but who was in the Supervisory Board of this bank? [[Abg. Riepl: An important question!]] My second question: What has the State Commissioner done in this context? Did he sit there and keep quiet? My next question: Where was the FMA in this context? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Others have already asked!]] My further question is: What is the opinion of the National Bank? However, we could ask ourselves something else, ladies and gentlemen, because it is always praised – and this has made it clear to Mr Königshofer – it would be important for the Court of Auditors to examine this bank package. Mr Königshofer, where was the Court of Auditors in the examination of the country of Carinthia? He slept there, didn't he check anything? I assume that the country of Carinthia will be examined by the Court of Auditors. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it should not only be 18 billion € in liability, but 21 billion €. [[Abg. Pendl: Oh! Listen! Listen!]] There's something else I wonder: I have always wondered why the Court of Auditors absolutely wants to examine the smallest communities, almost the smallest problems. Now I know, or perhaps I am wrong with the Court of Auditors, but obviously he is unable to carry out a proper audit, but already able to check with small communities, on the major problems that are really problems, such as with a liability of €21 billion for a budget of €2 billion. That is not the task of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13831	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13852	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! In view of this item on the agenda, of course, the issue of “Hypo Alpe-Adria” is simple and simple to question. How can it be that a large regional bank received a government injection of €900 million a year ago, and this year – you don't know exactly how much is needed – will get €1.5 billion to € 2 billion. We already know that, and it has already been carried out by the previous speakers. However, the fact is that the National Bank has been quoted by you, and I can carry this out here: As regards the economic situation of Hypo Alpe-Adria, it should be noted in particular that the Hypo Alpe-Adria is planning a profit of € 225 million on the basis of a largely adjusted credit portfolio for 2009. And further: that on the basis of the planned calculation, a cover of the assumed annual operation of the participation capital appears possible within the calculated bandwidth at interest rates of 8 and 9 percent. - Quote. Instead of € 225 million profit – we know it – about €1.5 billion loss. Today we cover the coat of silence over interest rates or returns on participation capital. When a bank € 900 million And ten months later – for the rulers knew that already a month ago – further balance sheet aid is needed, and that to such an extent, the essential question arises: What actually happened in this time from the first financial syringe to today? What happened there? [[Abg. Riepl: Petzner knows the answer for sure, but he doesn't tell them!]] Has management failed? – That must have been so, because if I use financial assistance, I have to put forward a concept of action. And then another credit portfolio is written by the National Bank, which is largely in order. If that were really all right, we wouldn't stand here today and discuss the Hypo Alpe-Adria. That's not a topic at all! That's why I'm wondering: If you are already questioning the Court of Auditors, Mr Auer, I would like to question the National Bank at this point, which, on the basis of four pages, will issue a personal license, of which de facto will not be left, except that a management is coming and saying: I have the National Bank's Persilschein, I can continue my business as I will, and I need no control! It can't be either! I think we still have a lot of work in front of us together.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13893	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Matznetter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13914	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Back to the unpleasant topics, and I'll stay with the Hypo Alpe-Adria. First, another sentence on the Payment Services Act. Many of us, including me, tried yesterday to bring together a compromise solution. I also want to say honestly what it failed to do: If on the same day it becomes known that large companies in Austria for an attached deposit certificate despite ban since 1. July of this year obviously 3 €, 4 €, 5 € demand, then of course we have a problem. [[Abg. Head: This is an excuse now, Christoph!]] - No, that's right, there's already a repulsion procedure. We have a new regime since 1. ==References== Let us see that we come to the bonus system described by honourable Member Krainer. Unfortunately, we cannot change it in the form today. To Hypo Alpe-Adria: I still remember how it was when I came to this speaker's desk – and I remember exactly how it was in May or June of 2006 – and I pointed out that we have two banking problems and scandals, which Hohn has come to the topic of Hypo Alpe-Adria. At the time, we had facts that would have to surprise us if we looked at it, that it had lasted until 2009. The only legal conviction for a bank's balance sheet falsification exists at the Hypo Alpe-Adria. – You, Mr Petzner, do not always need to waver on this issue. Of course, the investigations will continue in Munich. The question arises as to how it is possible that a few people in the dark circle of the deceased head of state have acquired options in between, without 1 cent of their own capital. Then, if the option is 30. In June 2007, it was pumped with great haste by the Supervisory Board of the LandesLB, and now the investigations are under way in Munich. Why, although no Due Diligence was there, was such a hurry developed there? Who had the time pressure? 22. May 2007 – we guess who it was! Mr. Tilo Berlin and his people have 1 cents with no commitment – provided these reports are correct, and I fear that they are right – 160 million € – that does not even fit into a suitcase in 500-€ light if we stick to today's issue, that would be 320 000 of them – tax-free. [[Call the SPÖ: tax-free!]] This part of the business is one that needs to be clarified, even where exactly every cent has gone. The second part concerns the question: What happened in Croatia? Why could it not be explained that loans were granted through loans? – We have experienced it in the Committee of Inquiry: No one could tell us that! How was it possible to build up €30 billion over the years there? If you travel to Croatia, the bank supervisors will tell you: Yes, we didn't understand the Austrians either! Every credit that no human gets, that's what the hypo has done! We also need to examine this part. One thing is clear, Mr State Secretary: For the loads that rest in there, the only Teschek is in the game of Austrian taxpayers. We probably don't get around saving the bank because it's the system-relevant sixth largest bank. Carinthia cleans up at the end of the day, as Mr Auer said, and the tax payer of the federal government may probably jump in this weekend for a hole he does not know how deep it is. This is a scandal in which the political question will not pass the BZÖ, because the responsibility in this federal state is yours, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13977	Mr Fichtenbauer spoke as the next speaker. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e13998	Mr President. High house! I am speaking positively, I hope that the colleagueship will be pleased. Before Christmas one should also mention the good things of life, not always slander. My group and I are glad that the insurance supervision law is being amended today. I add that we have taken a massive initiative in advance in this direction, which could be targeted in such a way that it becomes part of a government proposal so that it wins the majority of this House. Very soon: It is a very necessary addition, which aims at providing insurance companies with a long-term scope required by the European competitive environment to act in accordance with the rules of the Insurance Supervision Act, that, in the case of separations for the purpose of an operating company under a holding company, which is currently the owner of the insurance concession, while maintaining the previous shareholder structure and in the case of the transfer of the composite insurance to the subsidiary, the concessions remain. This corresponds to a structural element currently and generally in the course of the period, to restructure that, in principle, in the case of existing listed companies, there is nothing to change if the current owners have medium-sized ownership of the separate operating insurance company following the restructuring as the direct owner of the listed holding. It was therefore necessary to implement this initiative. I am glad about it; we will vote in favour of this part. That is why we have called for separate vote. For the reasons already mentioned, it is very difficult to agree to the overall package solution, because the Bank Package II – if we want to do so – is also involved. After all, it is positive that this legal measure is being taken. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14036	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14057	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I am now easily acting as one of the last speakers, for it has already been said a lot, but I would like to make a few comments to my previous speakers. First of all, positive: I believe that the law we are adopting today includes very many essential regulatory measures and very important measures for the financial sector. Mr Fichtenbauer has just carried out one, and others have already been presented. However, I would like to ask Mr Kogler one thing – he is, as is often the case with the Greens, not here now to follow the debate –: What's bad about tying an emergency package – that was actually it; we did it together successfully for the economic location and the banks – which is then also becoming a business for the Republic. Then: The majority of banks that have used the share capital pay interest for it, which is quite high at 8 and over 9 percent respectively. Put an emergency measure at the right moment and then earn something in it sees an added value. I don't know what's bothering the greens. Another point I would like to make is very important: It is already apparent that, given the hypo-Alpe-Adria process, we need to be very careful that we conduct the political discussion with great responsibility and care. Then: We cannot all want it to result in a new discussion on the solidity of the Austrian financial centre and all those banks that really do a good job. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] That is where I think we really have to act very responsibly. To Hypo Alpe-Adria a note: I would like to know who is actually familiar with the report of the Kärntner Landesfindungshof. If you read it, you notice: This is a dazzling moral painting. And I am sure that this will also be a political issue, because, for example, it now suddenly reveals the fact that not only the country of Carinthia is liable for the hypo, but also the holding of the country, for all the demands that are made against the hypo, with a back arrest of the country of Carinthia. This is probably a much higher volume of liability than the 18 to 19 billion that are now under discussion. This will raise a number of questions and, of course, the question: What is the position of an owner, a country that bears considerable responsibility for today's risks and problems? Finally, let me say a few more encouraging words: This law also includes the possibility that banks will be able to reduce participation capital earlier in the future. This is certainly a sign of strength and a good signal of trust that we are putting with it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14108	A second time has been said, Mr Ing, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Lugar. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14130	Mr President. High house! Now it's right, now I've put my glasses on, now nothing can happen. I am not going to deal with the hypo here, but rather with more fundamental considerations. [[Abg. Peter Haubner: I think so!]] In connection with this item on the agenda, it is pointed out the anticyclic measures to strengthen banking. What does that mean, among other things? – Among other things, it is understood that banks’ capital resources could be made flexible depending on the economic situation. In other words, in a crisis, it is also possible to go down a little bit of equity, which serves as security, in order to act anticyclically. From my point of view, an absolute misdevelopment! Why? – equity serves as a buffer between the lender – that is, the one that has the savings book – and the borrower. In other words, if a loan fails, the equity serves as a buffer to protect the saver from default or loss of its savings. If we are now going down this capital base in the crisis, we are doing exactly the wrong thing – because loans are mainly due in times of crisis and not in boom years! This means that since anticyclic action is taking place, we need a high level of equity structure in boom years and a low equity structure in crisis years. And that's exactly the wrong way! [[Abg. Peter Haubner: Who wrote that? Where has this economic doctrine come from? From what textbook?]] And that's why we need sustainable lending, but in boom times, in the economic upturn. We do not need in the crisis a repair of the mistakes that have been made in boom years. We just need to look at Dubai, then we know what happened. Loans have been granted there, which were already brutal at the time – and which are, of course, even worse now in the crisis. That is to say, if we want to reorganise the banking sector here, we must look at the fact that in the good years, we are granting secure loans so that these loans can be saved as healthy as possible over the crisis years without the taxpayer having to jump in. That is to say, we need again – I have said this more often here – more banking links to their customers, we need more attention in the granting of loans, and above all we need a small bank structure which in Austria again ensures that the bond between the bank advisor and the borrower is designed in such a way that changes in the economic situation can be responded accordingly at any time and that, when loans are granted, the corresponding economic sense is also behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14186	Mr Petzner has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14207	I should like to ask colleagues from SPÖ and ÖVP, Mr President, before criticizing the country of Carinthia, to come to their own door. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Jessas! Jessas!]] They broke the BAWAG, where the taxpayer had to jump in with billions of euros. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They have ruined the national lights, driven the “consumer” to the wall. [[Abg. Head: You ruined a whole federal country!]] The country of Lower Austria has speculated € 900 million of tax money, irrevocably speculated, speculated housing funds. [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] In any other federal state, the head of state would be retiring, only in Lower Austria this is not the case. [[Abg. What are you talking about?]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Like a blind man of color!]] And I can also tell you that in addition to the mortgage, for example, the Volksbank, a black bank institution, is also having difficulties! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So always come in front of your own door before you point your finger at others – and especially when you point your finger at others with your finger. And with that, I come to the Hypo Alpe-Adria complex, because the hypo is already about looking at the entire history of the hypo. So let's look at this whole story! The fact is that in 1991 the hypo was partially privatized by none other than the head of state Jörg Haider. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] In 1991, the hypo, a SPÖ-led bank with 200 employees, was on the edge of the pleite. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Prehauser and Mr Haberzettl.]] Jörg Haider said: Politics out, management in! – In other words, since 1991, no politicians have been sitting in the leadership of the Hypo since 1991 – in contrast to the BAWAG, in contrast to Raiffeisen, in contrast to the Volksbank! [[Lively ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] You have to take note of that. Look at the board sets! And since then, the hypo has developed and was successfully sold by the country of Carinthia in 2007. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] A successful sale for Carinthia and the Carinthian taxpayer, with which we as the only federal state have a future fund, a savings book for the coming generations with €800 million, where we can only invest with interest in meaningful infrastructure projects, social projects, research projects. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Mr Wittmann, Mr Riepl and Mr Moser.]] We have €700 million on the high edge – Lower Austria, Erwin Pröll has speculated €900 million on the stock exchange. You can't rehearse that. This is the difference between the politics of the Austrian People's Party and the politics of BZÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call the ÖVP: You're talking such a nonsense!]] [[Inter-calls by Mr Hörl and Dr Wittmann.]] Finally, I should like to say the following because Mr Matznetter also speaks of Enlightenment: We have already said today that we have no problem with that! Look inside! Read the reports, including the Carinthian Court of Auditors report! Make an investigation committee! There has already been one in Carinthia, and the hypo has also been investigated in the Banking Investigation Committee. – Result: The BZÖ, the national policy of Carinthia, has proved nothing at all! We have come out of it with a white vest and will do so in the future on this issue! [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Muttonen, Dr. Wittmann and Riepl.]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In terms of mortgage, as with all other banks – as was the case with the BAWAG, as will be with the Volksbank – the federal government is also required. The Federal Government is required to make its contribution through the bank assistance package. What applies to all other banks, which applies to the red BAWAG, must also apply to the Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank in Carinthia, in order to secure Austria's banking location. But what you've done today is damaging the financial location, damaging the Hypo Alpe-Adria and is an irresponsible policy that I just didn't expect from a financial speaker like Matznetter from SPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14409	Mr Krainer spoke a second time. I wish to set the speaking time to 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14431	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this topic of Hypo Alpe-Adria is just too serious to break polemics from the fence here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] [[Abg. Petzner: That's what your group is doing! Your group is doing this!]] We should just know what we're talking about. The first is: You have to clarify one thing: In 2006, BAWAG did not receive a cent from the taxpayer, but a liability for which it paid the liability fee, and nothing else. – This is once a huge difference! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as the hypo is concerned, we need to know what we're talking about. This crisis is a speculation bubble. And the biggest bubble there was in Austria and which is right now on the square was the Hypo Alpe-Adria. We don't know how expensive it will be. We face the situation that we as the Republic are probably several billion in the coming weeks and months – it is not clear: are it two, are it three, are it four, are it four and a half or more? – cash must be paid, in order to prevent greater damage here. I would really ask: When we talk about such issues – we are talking about amounts corresponding to one and a half tax reforms! – then please do not pretend here in the way you just did, as if everything had been great at the hypo, but we have a serious problem here, and the question I ask myself is: [[Abg. Dolinschek: Mr Krainer, but that applies to everyone.]] How do we finance that? – That’s the question I’m asking myself! We are facing a situation where I say only one thing: With social democracy, we will not now, because of a bank for which the political responsibility lies very clearly with the oranges in Carinthia, then perhaps increase taxes, increase any VAT so that we can empty this soup that you have put in here! [[Congratulations and jawel-run at the SPÖ.]] You don't need to tell anyone that he should come at his own door – because the soup you put in in Carinthia, we'll be able to pop it out at the federal level! That's the problem!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14540	Mr Dr. Stumm volvely spoke on an actual correction. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure and give it the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14564	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Petzner here claimed from the speaker's desk that €900 million had been speculated in Lower Austria. – This number is incorrect! It is true, rather, that in Lower Austria, even in the worst year, in 2008, we saw more than €100 million from the charge of these funds. These funds serve every year to expand Lower Austria as a social model region, from the Free Kindergarten to care to innovative social projects! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – That is the truth, Mr Petzner!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14598	I don't have a word message anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we now have an extensive vote before us. I may ask you to pay attention. We shall first vote on the draft law in 497 of the Supplements. There is a request from Mr Fichtenbauer for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall first proceed to a separate vote on Rule 9 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who give their approval to this part to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Königshofer, ladies and gentlemen, on the creation of an 'Austrian bank'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That is why it is rejected. [[19:34:59]] Vote on agenda item 4
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14683	We shall proceed to the vote on Agenda item 4. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft. Service law Novelle 2009 in 533 of the Supplements. Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a request from Mr Herbert for a separate vote. Mr Hagen has also made a request for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal mentioned and the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 Z 1 and 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who speak out for these parts of the bill to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the insertion of the following new paragraphs into the Rules of Procedure. 2 refers to: Z 10a and 10b, Z 11a, Z 13a to 13n, Z 14a to 14z, Z 15a, Z 17a to 17f, Z 20a and 20b, Z 21a, Z 22a to 22c, Z 23a to 23c and Z 24a to 24x. Whoever gives his consent to this request, I would like to ask for a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. 2 c 25 of the draft law. I would like to ask for a corresponding sign if I agree. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall also proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the insertion of a new Z 26 into the Rules of Procedure. 2 to the content. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this proposal, to give a positive signal. – This too is the majority and thus adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 3 Z 2 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent to this part of the bill, I ask for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall also proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. 3 to the content: Z 5a and 5b, Z 6a, Z 16a to 16w, Z 17a and Z 21a. Whoever gives his consent to this request, I would ask for a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which refers to Rule 3 (22). I would like to ask for a corresponding sign if I agree. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall also vote on the supplementary motion tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President, on the insertion of new Z 2a to 2c and Mr 9a to 9i in Rule 4. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who join this request to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. The vote will now be taken on the amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. 4 to the content. Whoever gives his consent to this request, I would ask for a positive sign. – This too is the majority and thus adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 5 Z 2 to 8 as amended by the Committee's report. I am seeking the approval of those members of the House who give these parts of the bill a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 5 Z 9 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for these parts of the bill to be a sign of approval. – This too is the majority and thus adopted. I shall now proceed to the separate vote on the motion for a resolution. 9 Z 5 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who speak out for these parts of the bill to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I also succeeded in a separate vote on Art. 9 Z 15 § 37 para. 6 Z 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those members of the House who give their approval to these parts of the bill to a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 14 C 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who speak out for these parts of the bill to be a sign of approval. – This too is the majority and thus adopted. We shall also vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Neugebauer, on the insertion of a new Z 1a and a new Z 2a in Art. 14. I am looking for those members of the House who speak out for these parts of the bill to be a sign of approval. – This too is the majority and thus adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. 14 C 3 and Art. 16. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 18 Z 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who join these parts of the bill to give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. 18 to the content. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to be a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. The vote will now be taken on the amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. 18 Z 2. I would ask those Members of the House who are in favour of these amendments to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:43:55]] 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (479, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Alcohol Tax Act, the Beer Tax Act 1995; the Mineral Oil Tax Act 1995; the Sparkling Tax Act 1995; the Tobacco Tax Act 1995; the Tobacco Monopol Act 1996; and the Tax Code – Taxation Change Act 2009 (AbgÄG 2009) (498 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14878	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Weinzinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14906	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few hours ago, from the speaker's desk, I said: I am proud of the Parliament of this Republic. [[Abg. Head: That was yesterday morning!]] In recent times, when we discussed a certain bank, my pride has fallen again. But now we are coming to a new government template, the 2009 tax-change law. New rules for disbursements from the building workers' holiday fund, the extension of the penalty and the penalty premium beyond the end of the year, the reduction of the share ratio in the premium-privileged future provision and so on. But one thing is not taken into account in this tax-amendment law: For some time now, we have been calling for the increase in the official mileage of the currently – and for a long time – 42 cents on the 52 cents that actually cover costs. Ladies and gentlemen, every businessman can, of course, reduce all the costs he has to spend in order to achieve a profit, a profit, a turnover. [[Abg. Tamandl: That's not true at all! Only who uses the car mostly!]] The employee can only partially reduce his costs – regrettably! Because we have still not succeeded, yes, because we do not even think in the first place that our businesses stay in the region, stay near the place of residence, are near the village where the respective employee lives, are many thousands – twenty thousands! – Forced to drive their cars to work because there is no public transport. We all know that 42 cents per kilometer isn't. So you'd have to have the right to get 52 cents – that's what we've calculated, that's the current cost-effective figure – in order to be able to stop at least that. It didn't work again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am not responsible for the workers, but it is simply unfair according to my professional understanding. That is why we cannot accept this tax-amendment law. There are also some other points that are worrying. I regret that there is no agreement on this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14964	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e14985	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Weinzinger has already stated that there are some amendments to this tax-amending law. I'd like to go to the Pendler Pushale now. Mr Weinzinger, you have, as I mean, mixed apples and pears a little. The amount of money is nothing to the worker who has to travel to his workplace, because we have basically paid off the way from the apartment to the place of work with the amount of transport. In addition, persons who have to drive more than 20 kilometres receive a large shuttle fee, or even two kilometres away if it is not possible for them to use public transport. There are fifty provisions when someone has a large flat rate. In that case, you will receive a pendulum deposit, but not in any way kilometers of money. An entrepreneur has quite different possibilities. If he is mainly using his car, he can reduce the actual costs. What we decide to do here today is to extend the increased rate of penalty, which we have already increased by 10 per cent and then by 15 per cent – at that time because the prices of petrol were high. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is crazy! Now they're low again!]] But I would like to stress one thing: We have – and you have also mentioned it, Mr. Weinzinger – unfortunately God in the world of work has more and more people who need to go further and more. Workers must be ever more flexible. If one assumes that in Austria of the 3.5 million non-independent employees are 855,000 commuters who have to travel to their jobs every day – we assume – more than 20 kilometres, then that is huge, because that is almost a quarter of all self-employed workers. It is then also necessary to pay these costs, which they have to pay for the return of these wide distances. There are also criticisms – we have heard them in the Committee, and that has been the case before among other colleagues: The Greens believe that this is a bonus for the sifting policy, a bonus for the drivers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Mrs Moser, I would like to stress one point: It is not possible for many people to reach their workplace by public transport, because public transport is simply not attractive enough. That's where we agree. It's probably going to be with the new timetable from 13. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, right! That's my criticism!]] We will have to think of opportunities for the commuters, how we can help them. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, we already have the ideas! They're in the Greens' request!]] In conclusion: We must use this one year in which we decide on this extension in order to really achieve a fair and truly adjusted kilometres of commuting fee or a donor advantage, but of course we must also have the desire that many more commuters can switch to public transport and not even depend on their car. I hope, Mrs Moser, that you can now agree to this extension. You too must understand, as I mean, that the commuters cannot choose how far they drive to their place of work.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15070	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15092	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Tamandl, we could meet on a number of points. Of course, there is a problem where people live in the country, have to drive to work, and there is no public transport. I come from the Inn district, I know that, too, colleague Wöginger knows: Meanwhile, even less public transport than ever before. That's scandalous! But the starting point and the link point for a change should, of course, be something like this – I'm just sketching it briefly now – like an ecological design of the pendler-pauschales or the pendler-promotion, so that, at least where there is public transport – for example, around the Vienna, Vienna-South – it must be changed and you don't have to, because it seems convenient – which is often not really what it is when you look at what it is like when it comes to the south-east-tangente – sometimes it's also possible to ride the car anyway. I believe that there is a need for a change of consciousness – that is, that people simply understand what it means to be in a traffic jam for an hour, but in complete freedom on the southeast tangent – on the other hand – and that is even more important than understanding in the head or at least equally important – it needs appropriate economic incentives, but also interventions. We can complain that public transport looks so bad, but we are responsible for it. We have the power and the opportunity – at least to a modest extent – to change it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But you have just challenged me to this contradiction, although that would not have been my topic at all. That is why I would like to make the second point briefly. I would like to talk about the "Wonderful" provisions for the future that we want to recognise as green people that you are taking two steps – but it is worth noting that only one, namely, is to reduce the mandatory share. Yeah, good. At the same time, I am telling you – you know that now – that: This step too comes too late! We should have taken the step a few years ago when we could have seen where the trip is going. [[Abg. May. Rudas: Come on!]] - Two years ago! Now, to take this step and thus to make it clear that investment in government or other bonds will be increased, means for the investor, who cannot decide to have to buy seeing eyes, that the return in this field will fall in the next few years, because that is as safe as Amen in prayer. But that is still not my point. I say to you that the state-funded provision of the future is one of those products that you should dispose of better today than tomorrow. Why? – There are enough calculations and tests – I think the journal “Consument” did this a few years ago, the Chamber of Labour did that in the previous year – from which it is established – by precalculating – that, whether you are investing in fund products or in insurance products, when you decide to do so, and when you deduct the costs – administrative costs, management costs, capital costs – under the terms of the years since the introduction of this product – and there is not yet the year 2009! – an actual return of 1 percent comes out. What does that mean? – Every savings book was better during this period. What does that mean? – With the state premium, which the state adds to each payer, we only promote one – and this is very clear at the beginning of this product – namely the capital market promotion that Grasser intends to promote. This stimulates Austrian, foreign capital markets. Through this “wonderful” construction, the They were introduced at the time by the creation of future provisions or by the government funding of those underdeveloped capital markets which are now even more difficult in the crisis. For example, the Icelandic stock exchange was one of those stock exchanges in which Austrian future supply products could be established. Wonderful, I say! This is the precautionary and pre-planning... – Yes, yes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] Don't force me to talk to the other products! Don't force me! This debate is another time. I'm just telling you one thing: Give it up! These attempts, in fact, to promote private age savings with public incentives, have failed grandly over the years. You have to take note of this, and unfortunately your small, few well-intentioned attempts will not change it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15162	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Rudas. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15209	Mr President. My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to follow up on Mr Ollinger's speech. I was a little surprised that Mr Weinzinger went to the speaker's desk and said no word about the future. We all remember Friday, the 13th, when your grass still presented the future as the new project, how to support the stock market. In fact, it was a Friday, the 13th, for the many people who lost in old age care. I believe that with what we decide today, we are once again doing repairs of the black and blue government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Ikrath:... jobs created with it!]] With the capital guarantee and the reduction in the share ratio, we decide to make great improvements and prevent speculation with government incentive. [[Abg. Rädler: Since when are you in Parliament?]] Therefore: I hope the FPÖ is blazed after it has thrown grass, and I agree today. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15303	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. – Mrs Moser is not in the hall. The next speaker to come to the table is Mr Ing. Lugar. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15329	Mr President. High house! We agree with the government's proposal because it includes the extension of the penalty and this is a very good thing because many depend on the car. It is not the case, as Mr Oellinger claims, that in the surrounding region of Vienna, people should be forced to change to the public. I can say this from my own experience: There is no reasonable person who ingests himself in Vienna by car if he does not have a special reason for that. That means it's always better with the public. First, it is cheaper, second more comfortable and third faster. The only reason I have to drive to Vienna by car is that I have to transport something that I can be relatively difficult with public transport. But every normal person would change to public, especially in Vienna. The problem is not in Vienna. The problem lies in the country. That's where we have the problems. There is nothing to improve by reducing the penalty rate, because there are people who depend on it. There are people who spend two hours commuting because they simply have no way of finding a suitable job in their environment. We certainly do not need to hack around on those people, but we must support them, and we must above all give them an opportunity to change to public transport. Then it'll work. So I don't think I'm doing anything here. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But that is not done! And two requests are postponed!]] . Our requests are quite similar, they are also postponed. With regard to another point, namely the provision of the future – which is also included in this package – it is of course necessary that we apply this life cycle model. What does that look like? – At the beginning of an investment in the pension, the share of the shares is usually a high share in order to generate as high returns as possible. Later, when returns have been generated, the share of shares is reduced and bonds or other secure investment products are used, or investment in the money market – a savings account is nothing but an investment in the money market with fixed interest rates. This is something that should have been done from the beginning. It's good that there's something going on right now that we're changing the stock ratio accordingly after maturity. This is good, because we also have the guarantee that we can generate better returns over long periods of time and still have some stability and security, and it cannot happen that, as in the past, people who rely on their assets to have it available in the pension then – as for example through the last stock crisis – have 40, 50 percent minus in the account. If you... – Mr Ikrath, yes, I already know: [[Abg. May. Ikrath:... at the state-funded future, Mr. Cot...!]] You have certain interests, I can't agree with you either, that's not a question. [[Calls and calls between representatives of BZÖ and ÖVP.]] In my opinion, it is crucial that people look something out when they go into retirement, that they do not, if they want to access their assets, so to speak, get a long nose shown by the bankers, but that their assets are safely engaged accordingly. [[OBJECTIVES]] That must be a little worth to all of us, including you, Mr. Ikrath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15398	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15420	Mr President. High house! I would like to address another aspect, namely the overall economic effects, such as higher location attractiveness, employment growth, support for private consumption – i.e. all the effects that are particularly welcome and more necessary now than ever – but in particular I would like to address the relief of business management. This discharge is achieved through modified information requirements, for example in the Alcohol Tax Act – that concerns distillery, alcohol storage, registered consignors and consignees –: We have a savings of €373,000. Under the beer tax law – about 750 brewers, beer bearings and so on – savings: 212,000 €. Mineral Oil Tax Act – as we know, refineries, mineral oil bearings; about 600 companies –, savings: about €030 000. Sparkling tax law – which concerns approximately 2 500 companies – saves € 280 000. Or tobacco tax law – about 60 entrepreneurs are affected, namely tobacco factories and tobacco camps – saving: € 53 000. I therefore believe that this law is a good one, especially as these discharges come to fruition each year and this is a positive approach to economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15454	The next speaker will be speaking for the second time, Mrs Dr Moser. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15476	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister is no longer here, nor is he a Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, which you have defended the extension of the increase of the pendler-pauschale vehement! The fact is that the increase in fuel prices, rising fuel prices, should pay off. – Now we are again at a lower level, and yet that is extended! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I asked the Committee how much this costs us budgetly. – With a total volume of now probably almost €700 million, which we disbursement from the budget for the shuttle fee, this maintenance of the increase certainly amounts to over €40 million. Keep this in mind, given that the entire renovation check for the private sector included €50 million! They're wasting €40 million, although that wouldn't be necessary! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Mr President, I can even prove it to you by means of income: Most of the subscribers of the flat rate are classified in the income classes from €35 000 to €40 000. There are most people to find – these are not poor people! The poor people, the lowest-earners, have nothing at all from these commuters, which can be charged as advertising costs or asserted. The cashier with 1 100 €: Zero and nothing sees them from it! She gets only the general amount that everyone gets anyway. [[Abg. Wöginger: She's getting a penalty, Mrs. Colleague!]] This is our basic requirement: We want a general reform of the Pendlerenpauschale, both in the ecological and socially sound direction. On the one hand, we need a better suspension of the users of public transport – which presupposes that they are once extended, attractive, but you from SPÖ and ÖVP always reject our requests that go towards the building of public transport, either off or delay them; that is actually the biggest affront for the counterparts! – and on the other hand, we also want the social transformation of the pendulums. The people who really need it, who deserve less than €1 100, who are supposed to have something of it, not only the “big coppers” or those who deliberately moved into the bacon belts beyond public transport and then out of the tax cash, from the budget, from the area where we are currently very, very scarce, still get something for them to live wonderfully in their single-family homes around Vienna or around other settlement centres in Austria and to drive every day by car. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] I mean, this is really counterproductive in many ways: social, environmental, spatial policy, climate policy, financial policy, budgetary policy – I can count it wide-ranging for you. That's why we decided no! In summary: In our view, this capital market-oriented form of pension provision is a mistake for people. Here too: a very, very massive No! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] There is also an additional request from us.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15549	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15571	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A few comments on the tax-amendment law. The good news for the pendlers: The flat rate and the supplement will continue in the scheme that has been in force since summer – unfortunately God only until 2010. That means that we will have the discussion again in a year, hopefully with a different, longer duration of action. Today, at least we are delighted by the current success and also by the fact that a successor has been agreed in the Council of Ministers' presentation. The BUAK adjustment provides that in cases where the BUAK is a paying agency, it also assumes the employer's obligations. Not solved is the problem of year-end exceeding in case of disbursement by the service provider. However, after not only construction workers but also others are affected, a solution will be to be sought, which also does not adversely affect others. However, I am very confident in this respect, especially since it was also possible to establish an entrepreneurship regime in analogy with 13th and 14ths. To find taxation of employees. Finally, to repair the provision of the future: I think that the past has all shown that private provision for the future is not a substitute for state pension schemes. Therefore, corrections are necessary – these have already been shown several times. There is no doubt that there is no support for products without capital guarantee. Although this law does not reorganise all construction sites, tangible improvements that we would like to support, are all included.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15610	The next speaker was Mr Wöginger. 2 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15631	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Two comments on future security: It is precisely in times like this that we are essentially concerned with security in the field of liability, which is why these measures are being put in place here, and not necessarily profit maximisation. But we have to say that there is no euro lost, we know that from other areas where we already have losses and losses. This is not the case here. What is decided here today is a way in the right direction. The aim is to reduce the mandatory share to 30 percent and to introduce a life cycle model, i.e. to reduce the percentage of the share to a total of 25 percent with increasing age and from 55 onwards. ==References====External links== - That's about this area. We have already debated it in committee. Mrs Moser! I really can't understand your argument at the premise. What Mr Oellinger said was still clear, especially with regard to the situation of public transport in rural areas. Mr Oellinger, some entrepreneurs can also come up with something like buses and buses. That's, as I mean, a good opportunity. The shuttle fee covers 855,000 employees and costs about € 735 million. Mrs Moser, these are not all serious earners, they are quite ordinary workers, who have an income from which they pay wage tax, that is true. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes! That's why we need...!]] However, it also applies to apprentices and part-time workers. We don't disapprove of that. But we will already remember that you are saying in total, that the state is throwing money out for the shuttle fee – and that in times like these when this compensation can never cover the effort for a vehicle that workers need every day to get to work. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes! For those who don't need it!]] It's just in Upper Austria. What country do you live in, Mrs. Moser? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Sorry, you still haven't understood...!]] We have tens of thousands of commuters, and you accuse them, they get too much money. That is what we will remember, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You don't understand...!]] We have a different access here. We want to support the commuters, and that is why we stand very clearly for the extension of the penalty and the penalty. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Riepl.]] We will have to talk about the introduction of a more just model. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, that's necessary!]] We will do so so that part-time workers and apprentices are no longer disadvantaged. We are at our disposal for this, but not for that to be abolished.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15780	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Jarolim. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15801	Ladies and gentlemen! Just a short time. As Mr Haberzettl will then talk about the tax system, I can only say a few words about future security. The charging procedure is the re- and up, not a question. And the aim of all of us must be that we continue to maintain this payment process in full. What we have seen in recent years – I can only give Mr Ikrath the right – is that we have experienced a relatively strong failure in pension schemes. If one sees that all pension funds have performed far worse than the normal cash registers and charges, then the question arises why this is so and whether there may not have been some single banks pushing in their worst products, which will put pressure on future pensioners. That must certainly not be the case with this model. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. New builder.]] Thank you very much, colleague. On the other hand, I believe that tax advantages should also be made available for semi-reasonable systems. You certainly don't know today whether this is a good or a bad solution, but it's certainly a better solution than if you didn't make this seasoning. I therefore believe that we will go a reasonable way here, and I am already looking forward to Mr Haberzettl's speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15838	There has been an actual correction by Mrs Moser. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15872	Mr Wöginger has claimed that I would have said that I want to abolish the penalty. [[Abg. Wöginger: I didn't say that! I said that...!]] - Look at the minutes! I'm correcting: I am in favour of massively reforming the Pendler Pauschale!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15926	Mr Haberzettl has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. 2 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e15948	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) One does not believe that a tax-change law can so emotionalize, although a lot of things are inside this tax-change law, in the changes to the Income Tax Act, in particular the topic of construction workers' holiday and handling law, which is actually a logical consequence. The amendment of the Civilian Vacation and Processing Act also requires a change in the Income Tax Act, because it is a matter of the building workers' holiday and handling fund, when it directly pays out holiday fees, almost enters the employer's function, the wage tax is calculated, paid off, but also the wage bill is issued. [[Abg. Oilman: To the Pendlers! Please go to the Pendlerskyans!]] So here, as I mean, a coherent operational level is completed. On the Pendlerpauschale a note, colleague Moser, which is very important, even more important than the extension: In 2010, an intelligent solution needs to be developed taking environmental aspects into account. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We've heard that for a long time!]] The question of ecological aspects will certainly still require many discussions, because it is very important how these ecological aspects are put. The rest of this tax-amending law is in fact rather a prelude to Community law, a reprocessing and, ultimately, a slight step towards safeguarding future claims.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16011	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 498 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of separate vote by the honourable Member Mag. Mr Kogler, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 Z 3c as regards § 108 lit. h Abs. 1 Z 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those members of the House who give this part their consent to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. - That's the majority. That's why it's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:18:40]] Vote on agenda item 5
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16073	We shall now proceed to the postponement of the vote - I may ask you to stay here briefly - on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 534 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. That's why it's accepted. [[20:18:53]] 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (477, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing the Federal Law on the Establishment and Jurisdiction of the Federal Tax Administration (AVOG 2010) as well as the Income Tax Act 1988, the Re-establishment Tax Act, the Fees Act 1957, the Capital Tax Act 1934, the Insurance Tax Act 1953, the Fire Protection Tax Act 1952, the Motor Vehicle Tax Act 1992, the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967, the Federal Tax Code, the Federal Tax Code, the Federal Tax Law, the Federal Law on the Expenses, the Broadcast Law CSSR and the EC Voluntary Aid Act – Federal Law on the Reorganisation of Jurisdictions in Tax Matters (499, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16111	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Haider. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16139	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Tax administration law – we will not agree because this law will not change. There will be no change in the fact that the pooling of financial offices makes it more difficult for the taxable person to find his competent agent. Nor will it change the fact that in recent years the costs of the auditors have increased blatantly by the merger of the financial offices. And it will not change the law either that, when the financial offices in Vienna were merged, the Glass Palace was rented by the Financial Office at the Vienna-Mitte station and that the staff of the financial offices who will have to work there in the future are being peared in large-scale offices, where we know today that large-scale offices have a negative impact on the human psyche and the nervous costume. The fact that such workplaces are still being established in 2011 cannot find our agreement, nor to where we know that the houses that become free through the merger of financial offices, for example, the Financial Office for the 8th, 16th and 17ths. District to be rented in the future. You don't know exactly: yes or no? If so, to whom? In the Committee, the two Secretarys of State have remained guilty of the answer to the question of how high the rent should be. To this day, there is no answer. What will not be amended by this law is the conditions at the Graz Financial Office, as the Court of Auditors pointed out in its recent report last week. The Graz Financial Office, which is also responsible for refunding VAT credits to foreign companies, has transferred some €4.6 billion to pre-tax in 2003 to 2007, without the fact that these applications for pre-tax transfers would not have been sufficiently audited. The reason for this is that this is a financial office that has been scrupulously under-occupied, which has been humanised in recent years. Other financial offices, on the other hand, are much too There are double and triple taxation, even where it is not at all at all. So: In Graz too few people, where it really is about a lot of money, namely, a lot of money for the Republic, where you know exactly how this VAT carousel works, namely: A company A in an EU country sells a goods, we say the simplicity of 1 million to a company B in another EU country, of course without VAT – in intergovernmental traffic does not fall on VAT – and this company B continues to sell to the company C with VAT, and the company C recovers VAT as a pre-tax, and the company B, which has been cashed by the company C, disappears, and so these 200,000 are lost to the state. But this will not change because of this AVOG. Whatever will not change is the problem with the KIAB. The KIAB, which was divided out of the direct responsibility of the Ministry, is subject to the individual financial offices, and this originally very good anti-fraud instrument was drawn teeth. As long as our wishes for creating a national control unit for the KIAB are not met, we will not agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16181	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. 2 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16202	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Haider, the efficiency of financial offices does not depend on the number of officials or employees working there. In Austria, we have financial offices with fewer employees, who are very, very successful and more efficient than financial offices that have more employees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the current government proposal: It is true that the tax administration organisation law – a very long word – certainly brings benefits, because the implementation of the federal tax system in the AVOG, as stated in the abbreviation, can make the classification much better, because the areas of competence are being clarified and, above all, for the competent tax authorities, access is improved. It is the legibility, the norms and the classification, as has already been said, to make it much better. The acquisition of the BAO and the merger in the AVOG will lead to administrative simplification for applicants and, above all, for taxpayers. That is why I welcome this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16239	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16260	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, in recent weeks we have received a fine example for a tax management organization – but not in the positive sense, but unfortunately in the way it should not be –: According to the Court of Auditors' report, which is almost still fresh, the Graz Financial Office is a financial office which is mainly concerned with the repayment of VAT to foreign companies. In this respect, the Court of Auditors shall, in a number of cases, list maladministrations which affect the tax burden. It's worth a million. That's exactly where the law that's being changed here today should be put in place – but it doesn't! In Graz, there is an organized chaos or an organizational chaos. In six years, the number of cases to be handled has increased by 80 percent, ranging from 50,000 per year to 90,000 per year, but the staff has not been increased in return but has, on the contrary, been reduced by 21 percent. A black organized chaos, one would like to say: In the operational activity, there are high friction losses. There are serious shortcomings in risk analysis and also in risk selection. There are almost no information options for the processors there, although you would already experience a lot online at the push of a button, but there are no corresponding facilities. But the biggest problem is that there is no means of combating fraud. And by doing so, taxpayers escape millions. If you know that in 2006, 14 auditors of the Financial Office carried out a sample-like check in only 0.7 percent of cases and this has already led to an increase of around €40 million, then you can calculate what would lead to a reasonably organized anti-fraud or control possibilities. Recovery of sales tax refunds already paid is more or less pointless because there is little possibility of access abroad. That means you have to set up a control interface before. I'm sure that'll be still to discuss. The major problem here is: We'll play the servant in front of the Lord again. Then: We do 80 percent of the cases within six months, but our companies must wait in 80 percent of cases between 6 and 24 months when they claim back from abroad. So it is when you play the servant – then you are treated as such.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16308	Mrs Hagenhofer's next speech. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16330	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Whoever looked at the presentation “Digital Austria” yesterday, he was able to convince himself of what advanced, modern and forward-looking administration – especially in the Ministry of Finance I looked at it more closely – Austria. We can be really proud of that. If we are now laying another foundation with this tax administration organisation law, namely that it will be possible at any time and anywhere in Austria for taxable persons to submit their application to the respective tax authority, this is another progress, another added value for the people and a service of the state to the people. In order to be able to do so, there is a need for three things: the right to do so: the tax administration law, the changed organisation and the information technology. All of this we do with this law. I would also like to say: Officials and officials in the public service do not need to hide from private sector officials, for what they do in this field is enormous. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16368	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16390	Mr President. We shall vote in favour of this item on the agenda. I have to say that the two previous speakers of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have something comprehensible for me. I just don't know if with this novel, everything that is being mounted here could have been fixed. It's worth a try anyway. I can already see a step in simplification, and that is just what warrants our approval. On the other points mentioned here: I also see that, as Mrs Hagenhofer said, a lot of good financial officials are still working. I am not sure, however, whether they are always good enough and properly assigned. It is precisely here that we should again concentrate on the forces in certain test procedures, namely where the suspicion of fraud is particularly high, and secondly, where there is something to get, because in the other case, only the citizens are being fooled. However, I also see a certain degree of weakness, especially when I look at the development of the last ten years, one has to say, as far as large-scale auditing is concerned or other tax evasions are concerned. In this respect, there will certainly be an opportunity to follow this Court of Auditors report, which has been sent to this House, where the situation in the Graz financial office has been dealt with in particular. And on this point I would join the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party. We trust, however, that we can imagine a right step here, which will at least have the chance of simplifying the taxpayers. But this is again for the smaller ones or especially for these. And what happens to the great ones who don't want to pay and who even act fraudulently, we have to let more imagination take place, and there we hope that we will soon have a few templates with which we can go to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16423	Mr Windholz has been mentioned as the last one for the time being. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16444	Mr President. High house! However, I am not as optimistic as the colleague Hagenhofer of the SPÖ, because those who are concerned see this as critical, namely the idea of living in the Ministry of Finance under the title: Everyone has to be able to do anything, including into a team. I can tell you that the fight against fraud really justifies the creation of special units that are not constantly used elsewhere to stop human holes. I am not the one who says that we need more staff everywhere – more personnel, of course, means more costs – but I tell you that all this will depend on whether one is able to carry out administrative simplification. You have to make the device slimmer! [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] You need to make the device so slim that you create human resources in order to be able to target fraud. It is absolutely right for the Member of the FPÖ to say: Sometimes one believes that with this structure in the Ministry of Finance there is almost an invitation not to comply with the laws. It's really made very, very easy for you sometimes. The colleagues working in the public service know exactly what they need. Perhaps you should make the effort to make contact with those who make this job on the ground, and not with the “scripers”, in particular with those directly in the ministry, because what comes from there is usually a disability rather than a support.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16490	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 499 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:35:37]] 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (481 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Accounting Agency Act (500 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16542	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Steindl was the first to speak. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16569	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The present government proposal is about the Accounting Agency Act. The accounting agency has been established since 1. ==References====External links==* Official website According to previous experience, we were able to see that we were relatively far away from the specified time periods during the planning work and that, especially when a lot of changes in the individual ministries and resorts did not have the planning security needed for planning. That is why we will change the period for budget templates in this law, from March to October, so that overall there is more planning security. This will improve the quality of planning. I welcome this extremely. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16602	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16623	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the amendment of the Accounting Agency Act, the legal provisions are now adapted to the corresponding requirements. As has already been said, consideration has been given to the practical implementation of this law. The Court of Auditors' recommendations have also been able to influence this change in law. This change will ensure or strengthen planning security and achieve to a large extent the objective of targeted information in budget planning. It seems essential to me that the amendments to this Accounting Agency Act also extended the tasks of the Supervisory Board. In addition, the powers of the Supervisory Board for the submission of the proposal for balance sheet gains and losses have been extended. Ladies and gentlemen, with this five-party agreement, it has been shown that by unanimity and a common desire for a common demand, up-to-date and targeted budget planning is ensured. I wish for such a five-party agreement with several legal provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16656	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider. [[Abg. Hear: Again!]] 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16688	Mr President. High house! Yeah, Franz Hörl, I'll do it again, but this time I'll do it very briefly. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Shopf.]] My previous speaker already said it anyway: There's a five-party union. The previous experience of the Accounting Agency from 2005 to 2008 has shown that, as my previous speakers have already said, adjustments to this law are necessary due to business needs. It is a question of postponing the date of the budget from March to October. We expect this to improve the quality of planning and budgeting. That is why we will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16727	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16749	Of course, we agree with the proposed technical amendments to the Accounting Agency Act, but there was something else. The technical changes are good, but I do not think they can completely prevent problems, even if the rights of the Supervisory Board are strengthened a little. We know from Austrian practice how the Supervisory Board feels the business Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In view of the underlying problem for the future, therefore, there is no certainty that such a thing will not happen again. There is still a lack of effective supervision or control due to a better functioning internal revision, which would have to be made point-free in the essential points. And the supervision of the ministry should also work better! I would have expected that after a year's removal – the scandal around the accounting agency – the whole thing would be done without anger, so to speak, but with the zeal that is our own, once looked at and said what is needed. - I miss it. I'll tell you something because it's a strange coincidence: It was only today that I was called by a journalist from Great Britain who told me that one of Mr. Datzer's business partners might still do business – I don't know for sure yet – with the confirmations of the accounting agency that no one would probably buy him in Austria. But a year ago, one would not have believed that there were some fools who bought such confirmations from the accounting agency! It seems that banks or large private financiers have gotten their heads hot, so to speak, and are trying to achieve some sort of quick profit. A security of the system against the method that worked a year ago in so far as a top official has gone here and said I can well stamp, and I confirm to anyone who wants to have any private liabilities to the Republic has not really succeeded, and you will certainly never be able to make this perfectly sure! On this occasion, however, I would have expected that at least one approach to discussion will take place on how we stand in relation to supervision and control in this non-essential agency, which processes very many of the Republic's booking operations. How are we now? It seems to me that a lot of work is ahead of us or you!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16794	Mr Windholz has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16815	Mr President. High house! This matter of law is supported by all; it is also absolutely worthy of support. But one should also focus on the past. My previous speakers mentioned this briefly: Criminal energy doesn't really have to slumber in everyone, but it can be, and one needs protection mechanisms in particular where it really is about a lot of money. I think you are well advised not only to rethink this system, but also to adapt it and to create additional mechanisms. One case showed how easily it was done there. You don't have to suspect from everyone that he is acting law-reliance to 100 percent. Such errors can be avoided in the case of appropriate adaptation, and that is of course desirable. The accounting agency, as such, is doing an impeccable job, and I believe that the legal change is okay. Let us not forget the important role of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors also has matters in this context. These will now be implemented. It is therefore absolutely thanks to those who say that what the Court of Auditors is examining and pointing out needs to be implemented in law. I would expect and hope that this will come as soon as possible in other areas, because the Court of Auditors is always making proposals on reducing federal expenditure.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e16858	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 481 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:45:35]] 10. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (399, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain on income and wealth taxes (501 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (444 e.g._Other Organiser Protocol amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the United Mexican States on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth as well as in the Protocol (502 d.b.) 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (443 e.g._Other Organiser Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and exchange of income (503 d.a.) 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (450 d.a._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Gibraltar on the exchange of information in tax matters (504 d.b.) 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (446, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Denmark and the Additional Protocol amending the Protocol on 25 March. Agreements signed in Vienna in May 2007 in the fields of income and wealth taxes (505 d.a.) 15. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (447, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and St Vincent and the Grenadines on the exchange of information in tax matters (506 d.b.) 16. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (449, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol and Additional Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Norway amending the Agreement on 28 March. It was signed in Vienna on 14 November 1995 to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth, as amended by the Convention on 14 November 1995. Protocols signed in November 2005 and Additional Protocol (507, B.C.) 17. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (448, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands and Additional Protocol on the further amendment of the Protocol to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Austria on the one hand and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the other. On 18 September 1970, he signed an agreement in Vienna to avoid double taxation in the areas of income taxes and assets, as well as the final protocol, as amended by the agreement on 18 September 1970. The Protocol signed in The Hague on 26 December 1989. It was signed in The Hague on 8 November 2001 and signed on 8 November 2001. Protocols signed in Vienna in October 2008 (508 d.b.) 18. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (441, e.g._Other Organiser ==References====External links== Agreement signed in Luxembourg in October 1962 between the Republic of Austria and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income tax and wealth and exchange of notes (509 d.a.) 19. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (445 e.g._Other Organiser Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Belgium and the Additional Protocol amending the Protocol on 29 March. Agreements on the prevention of double taxation and on the settlement of certain other issues in the field of income tax and wealth, including commercial taxes and basic taxes, signed in Vienna on December 1971 (510b.b.) 20. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (442 e.g._Other Organiser Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Additional Protocol amending the Protocol on the On 17 April 1969, the London Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Preventing Absence in Income Taxation was signed in London. The Protocol signed in London on 18 November 1977 and the Protocol signed on 18 November 1977. Protocols signed in London on 511 May 1993 (511 p.a.) 21. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (451 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Principality of Andorra on the exchange of information in tax matters (512 d.b.) 22. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (452 e.g._Other Organiser Protocol amending the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one hand and the European Economic Area on the other. In 1974 in Vienna, agreements signed between the Republic of Austria and the Swiss Confederation to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and wealth and exchange of notes (513 d.e.c.) 23. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (453 e.g._Other Organiser Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of San Marino and the Additional Protocol amending the Protocol on 24 March. Agreements signed in Vienna in November 2004 in the fields of income and wealth taxes (514 d.a.) 24. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (454 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Principality of Monaco on the exchange of information in tax matters (515 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17045	We shall now proceed to items 10 to 24 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Grastaur. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17072	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The liberals do not agree with the present double taxation agreement because they are directly related to banking secrecy and to the abolition of banking secrecy. I would like to proceed with the series and remind you once again that our Minister of Finance Pröll has kneeled before Mr. Finanzminister Steinbrück and has not sought and found strategic alliances in order to prevent the abolition of the banking secret for foreigners. The British Channel Islands and other tax havens, on the other hand, continue to be under the OECD's watchful eye with their businesses. As a result, we have been removed from the so-called grey list and double taxation agreements possible. We are and continue to fight for the maintenance of banking secrecy and therefore consistently vote against everything that this banking secret could tip. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, I would like to address a few questions to the Minister for Finance. Since this one is not there, perhaps Mr Mag. Ikrath, who'll talk about me, give me some information. One hears again and again that the Minister of Finance or the Ministry of Finance are in the footsteps of Hartz IV and strives for an inventory of all the assets of the Austrians. This would mean that there is an obligation to recover if an Austrian or an Austrian requires social benefits from the state. This also meant that the renovation of state finances was partly at the expense of these people, namely the little man. These people, after losing their jobs, would also lose their property, for example, while the super-rich have long been in the dry. We know that one of the highest courts called will certainly tip alien discrimination. – Then, in principle, it is about the abolition of banking secrecy. This would cause the Austrians to lose bank secrecy. Then the glass man follows, and for the Minister of Finance, if such a thing as Hartz IV is going to be in Austria, golden times, because then the Minister of Finance also has access to the property of those people who demand and want social support from the state. That is why we are defending banking secrecy with all the means we have. We want the banking secret for the Austrians to remain. This is a very good thing, and we do not let anyone intimidating us, not the EU and OECD!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17124	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17145	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We meet in the opinion that banking secrecy is a great asset. We have proved this position very well, especially by our Minister for Finance. We have consistently defended the banking secret for all domestic taxpayers not only, but also received it and would never have touched it. - We'll both see. The only thing we've done was – and that's already a small ritual between us, we've been discussing it three times now – that we've treated taxpayers in the enforcement law in foreign countries. Until then, foreigners had been better protected than their nationals. So we were on our way to the black list, and that also brought us the reputation of a tax haven. To avoid this was a very thoughtful and also in the interests of protecting banking secrecy. Now we are quickly implementing the double taxation agreements, so that no one can be given a chance to give us a chance to go back to the front door, and precisely now the Minister of Finance has shown, by a general reservation to amend the interest-rate tax directive, that he is defending banking secrecy at European level. I hope you followed that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17180	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17202	Mr President. High house! At the time, we agreed to avert banking secrecy for foreigners. This is not the last thing we have done, because in this overall package some commitments were included specifically by the ÖVP, but of course also by the SPÖ. These commitments have included, inter alia, an audit by the Court of Auditors of the Communities and the right of minorities to convene an investigation committee. These two points were fundamental elements of this package with two others that have already been implemented. Unfortunately, since now, especially from the ÖVP, there are again and again signals that some things may not be the way they agreed, we have decided to give a little warning shot. We will not agree to this implementation today, which will not change anything in the matter, since you can implement it by a simple majority. This is to illustrate the need to adhere to agreements. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I would like to say to you: If you do not actually comply with this agreement and do not implement all the points you have negotiated with us here and concerning which we have agreed with a two-thirds majority, I can predict that there will never again be a participation by our side in a two-thirds majority, at no point! They can be quite sure that we will continue to do so, because agreements have to be respected in a questionable way. This applies to us as well as to you! That's why I'm asking you to: Go in again, consider whether it really is up to you not to stick to the agreement here! Then we can decide again together with two-thirds majority. If you adhere to agreements, we will stick to them too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17235	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. Time set: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17256	Mr Lugar, you have now been lucky that Mr Kopf is not here, because to accuse an Alemann of not complying with his word is courageous to express it kindly! I assume, of course, that everyone is in favour of this agreement. I would warn against doubting the signature of my colleague. [[I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report.]] I would just like to say to the debate itself that I think it is very essential that we really respect the spirit of this OECD agreement. It is not only about fulfilling the letters of this directive, but also about their spirit, so that we are not in a situation similar to that in two years' time. A few months when we came under international pressure. At the time, there were already initial problems at European level that Austria would be excluded from European investment programmes and the like due to non-cooperation in tax matters in accordance with the OECD standard. This OECD standard must be followed, above all, by the spirit and not just by the letter. I do not think that the concern that the banking secret for domestic taxpayers is being removed is a matter of concern to me. That won't be the case. It is rather that I do not understand at all why the liberals de facto want to protect tax evaders – totally regardless of whether they are foreigners or foreigners. This agreement applies in both directions, and we know from the German tax CD that it contained not only the data of about 1,000 Germans, but also more than 100 Austrians who have withdrawn taxes in Liechtenstein on foundations. There is now also an example that is known to all of us, namely Meischberger, who is not very unknown to some parties. Meischberger has also tried to spend €8 million in the tax over a private foundation in Liechtenstein. – This will no longer be possible in the future. In fact, it is not only about the suspension of taxes to the German Minister of Finance, but also about the withdrawal of tax from the Austrian Minister of Finance, and that is what we want to put off! That is why the regulation is good, and we support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17311	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17332	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I hear the message well, Mr. Krainer, I alone lack a bit of faith! [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] It's not just about tax legislation, about tax justice and that we're discovering tax sinners. I am always in favour of this because in the Community we have to move together in terms of taxes and taxes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But the answer did not yet come in terms of threatening Hartz-IV ratios in Austria. I live in Schärding on the border with Bavaria, and I know what Hartz IV is. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – I know: Schärding has been with Austria since 1779! I know what Hartz IV means. I've experienced this through my Bavarian friends: There the glass man was created, and I was always envied: You guys in Austria are better. The authority – every authority – can't check you in detail: What else do you have so we can take it away from you? Ladies and gentlemen! The glass man cannot be our goal. In order to remove banking secrecy vis-à-vis foreigners: In the near future, one or the other will come up with the complaint for discrimination, as Mr Grastaur has rightly said, and then we will have to abolish this regulation. [[Abg. Grosz: The Great Grain Duration!]] We are the model students in Europe anyway. [[Abg. Grosz: “We” Bayern!]] Then there's something else that really upset me about the whole thing. We've become extortionable. They have extorted us and said otherwise you will come on a grey or even black list, and who knows what will happen to you then. We are the Republic of Austria! We're a little more than any bare-footed country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] We are a grown republic, a country that has developed for centuries. There's no one who can come and say, You have to make your laws so and so! I am a friend of the double taxation agreements, and it hurts me that I have to vote against it, but I strongly vote against it with my club because we want to be consistent. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: You don't have to!]] – I ask you to understand this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17442	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17463	Madam President. Once again, we could talk about the fidelity to the Republic separately. I tell you, as a good Republican, you can well believe that we are considering how we stand in the international community. Granted, it has been pressured. By the way, that was the pressure we took advantage of. - You know what I'm playing on. But I believe that this must have come, that it was true that the state community has said: Right now, we need to do something about tax havens. – Not that we would be a tax haven in the sense of a low-cost tax country, that is not the case, but we have certain rules which, on the one hand, allow money laundering and on the other hand the hiding of taxed masses, i.e. capitals, and even the proceeds from it, if not even favour. It just wasn't a dispute. For a long time we Greens were the only ones who told this, and it was not the understanding of the majority here in the house that this should now be exactly the opposite. It was indeed the pressure of the international community of states – you call it blackmailing that it was granted to you. That's it. I am just telling you why we agree here today, which is, of course, to be justified at this point. This agreement, which the OECD encourages, is nevertheless still very soft, because the OECD does not have any right of entry into Austria. Mr Weinzinger would be wrong. However, we were well advised – perhaps someone else remembers the debates in the summer and on the 1st. September – to adopt the provisions of Article 26. Nothing else has happened there in essence – only for Enlightenment. It is essentially the OECD's suggestions, regulations, depending on how one wants to look at them, that have been adopted more or less one thing. We agreed – you do not – in the summer that we agree under certain conditions. That is just a logical consequence, and that is why, of course, our approval applies here and now. By the way, I believe that this will only be the end of the stage, but it is at least a first step, and I expressly welcome it. I'm not going far enough. We will see in the evaluation procedure whether this is sufficient at all, What's being done, because that's going to go on faster. But that this is a step in the right direction is clear. We are therefore first of all in favour, and second, we are fulfilling our promise and assume that in the future others will do so. I am very confident.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17514	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17536	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Let me add that, apart from the fact that the decision of these 25 double taxation agreements is intended to stop Austria from coming on a grey or black list, it will certainly help in the short term, but it will also be necessary – and I would like to stress this once again – to implement this international aid agreement in a way that it really is necessary to: The spirit of the OECD Directive corresponds and not only the letters of the law are implemented in the minimum variant. I fear that if Austria and the Austrian authorities, on the grounds of suspicion and requests from foreign authorities, call this an account of a likely tax fraud, which is being questioned, and say, yes, this account exists, but it goes beyond saying that there may be other accounts, as regards which could also be the justified suspicion that money or black money is also parked there, then, I believe, we will not stay away from the grey or dark lists for long, because it is really about fulfilling the spirit of the directive. In this sense, I also appeal to the Ministry to stop the authorities accordingly, that not only is the minimum variant implemented, but that which lies behind it, that is to really stop tax evasions, and that at international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17575	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on item 10 on the agenda – request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain in the areas of income and wealth taxes, in 399 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1) of the Protocol. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on item 11 on the agenda – request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Protocol amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the United Mexican States on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and excise duty may include the Protocol in 444 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. –This is accepted by a majority. We come to the vote on item 12 on the agenda – request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the current State Treaty: Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of taxes on income and changes in notes in 443 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 13 on the agenda – the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Gibraltar on the exchange of information in tax matters in 450 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on Agenda item 14 – Request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Denmark and the Additional Protocol amending the Protocol on 25 March. In May 2007 in Vienna, agreements were signed in the fields of income taxes and assets in 446 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on Agenda item 15 – Request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the current State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and St Vincent and the Grenadines on the exchange of information on tax matters in 447 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(l) of the Treaty. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 16 on the agenda – request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Protocol and Additional Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Norway amending the Agreement on 28 March. It was signed in Vienna on 14 November 1995 to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth, as amended by the Convention on 14 November 1995. Protocols signed in November 2005 and Additional Protocol in 449 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on Agenda item 17 – Request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the current State Treaty: Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Additional Protocol on the further amendment of the Protocol to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Austria on the one hand and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the other. On 18 September 1970, he signed an agreement in Vienna to avoid double taxation in the areas of income taxes and assets, as well as the final protocol, as amended by the agreement on 18 September 1970. The Protocol signed in The Hague on 26 December 1989. It was signed in The Hague on 8 November 2001 and signed on 8 November 2001. In October 2008, Protocols signed in Vienna in 448 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on Agenda item 18 – Request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the current State Treaty: ==References====External links== Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, signed in Luxembourg in October 1962, to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and capital exchange in 441 of the supplements referred to in Article 50 (1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We come to the vote on agenda item 19 – request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Belgium and the Additional Protocol amending the Protocol on 29 March. Agreements on the prevention of double taxation and on the settlement of certain other issues relating to income and property taxes, including commercial taxes and basic taxes, signed in Vienna in December 1971, in accordance with Article 50(1) Z1 of the Federal Constitutional Act, to be approved. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on Agenda item 20 – Request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the current State Treaty: Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Additional Protocol amending the Protocol on the On 17 April 1969, the London Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Preventing Absence in Income Taxation was signed in London. The Protocol signed in London on 18 November 1977 and the Protocol signed on 18 November 1977. Protocols signed in London in May 1993 in 442 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever gives his consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on Agenda item 21 – Request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the current State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Principality of Andorra on the exchange of information on tax matters in 451 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on Agenda item 22 – Request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the current State Treaty: Aband Protocol On 30 June the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. In 1974, in Vienna, agreements signed between the Republic of Austria and the Swiss Confederation to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and asset tax, in 452 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on Agenda item 23 – Request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of San Marino and the Additional Protocol amending the Protocol on 24 March. In November 2004 in Vienna, agreements were signed in the fields of income taxes and assets in 453 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on item 24 on the agenda – request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Principality of Monaco on the exchange of information in cases of taxation in 454 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[21:16:06]] 25. Point Report by the Committee on Sports on Amendment 890/A by Mr Hermann Krist, Mr Peter Haubner, on a Federal Act amending the Anti-Doping Federal Act 2007 and the Medicines Act (518, B.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17779	We now reach 25th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17807	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! Twelve speakers speak after me. It is certainly all that is to be said, so I would like to confine myself to a final thanks to all those who have cooperated in this legislative process. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] This begins with Mr. Darabos, all of his people in the cabinet and sports professionals in his area, through the Sports Committee chairman Westenthaler, the sports spokespersons of all parties to the employees in the individual political groups who have worked hard until the last minute – that is, until this morning – in the law. – Thank you very much! I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17894	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e17918	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr Krist has already put it to the fore anyway. – In the short term is the sausage. Today we have completed a long process with excellent work in the Subcommittee of the Sports Committee, and we will adopt a doping law that is unique in Europe. I think it is quite possible to congratulate everyone on this. It is gratifying that there has been a five-party request that will be decided today. I would also like to thank everyone, especially Dr. Schittengruber, who then put this into law. I have another amendment tabled by Mr Hermann Kristis, Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Herbert Kickl, Mr Ing. Peter Westenthaler, Dieter Brosz, Members of Parliament concerning the legislative proposal in the report of the Committee on Sports on the proposal 890/A by Mr Hermann Kristis, Mr Peter Haubner, colleagues on a federal law amending the Anti-Doping Federal Act 2007 and the Medicines Act and requesting the President, in accordance with § 53 para. 4 to have the distribution to MEPs. The main points of the application are: Locked athletes should not be used for doping prevention, provisions for sportsmen in a service relationship with the Confederation who have been blocked due to a doping procedure, a combination of the AVG’s partiality schemes, Ensure that athletes who have finished their active career can, in principle, return to competition after six months, while athletes who have finished their active career during a suspension or lock can only take part in competitions after 12 months, the report of the Independent Doping Control Unit shall be submitted to the National Council, legal clarifications and the implementation of the WADA code. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an excellent law for sports. The cleanliness in sports and the honesty of athletes should be the focus, but those who do not exercise sports honestly, and those who organize doping should be punished accordingly. In this sense, today is a good day for sports.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18010	The amendment that has just been tabled is explained in the key points and is part of the debate. I'll have him distributed in the hall. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18230	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18251	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that we – all five political groups – have demonstrated with this request a team spirit, as is expected among athletes in such a sports proposal. We have been able to make a five-party request – after a strong ringing. It is a good day for sports and also a good day for Parliament. We have, as has been said, found a reasonable regulation in the fight against doping, because we are setting a strong sign of an efficient fight against sports fraud in the professional field and not in the amateur sector. We want to achieve this intensification of the awareness of injustice and a strengthening of the awareness of the problem. Fraud, which has also been said elsewhere, is deception with intent to gain for itself or a third party a asset advantage, a monetary advantage. This crime of sport fraud is intended to be criminally prosecuted. He can do that now. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Haider.]] Reasonable accompanying measures have just been mentioned, I would like to make a brief cut: It has also been a need for us to point out what happens when a baptized sportsman has received funding. What's going on with that? – In this case, we have got a reasonable regulation into the law to get back the grants from the time he was transferred from the doping. This is a reasonable arrangement in the case of resumption of training and competition. That too is a central point, a central point in this law. We have not only defined the athletes as the people covered by this law, but also extended them to others involved in the sports business – for example, doctors and managers, but also trainers. Although it is precisely, and this has to be said, there is a rather strict, rigid right of stand in the medical field. This means that when doping is done, the position guide is rather rigid. This law creates similar clear framework conditions for all participants in the sports industry. But, of course, you are far from the goal, and I would like to make a slight criticism. We must, of course, look in the future at the fact that the authority – an authority it is not, it is an organisation – that has to deal with the doping and doping abuse ahead, namely NADA, with sufficient human resources and financial resources. We're not quite here yet. We have also been encouraged to consider, and this should be further discussed whether we are not giving NADA an authority character or something similar, as the ASFINAG has, for example. Unfortunately, there are also some problems in dealing with drugs. This means, for example, that if a sportsman or a youth goes to the doctor with his parents in the event of a cold, it happens again and again that he gets medicines that are on the doping list and that both the doctor and the athlete are not aware of this because of a disturbed flow of information. If you pass on or consume medicines that are on this list – you call them WADA list, a doping list – you can make yourself punishable, which in the extreme case leads to a barrier – just as it is in the law. This should now be done a little with the amendment tabled and with the motion for a resolution in the field of pharmaceuticals law. However, one should perhaps consider taking this issue into account in the framework of the health reform and the new methods that are available to us – I mean eHealth or ELGA; these are just as keywords – both from one side, in the sense of calling, and from the other, in the sense that the athlete can see if this medicine is on the list. One should try to pour that into a law in any form. I also have a small advertising drop on the amendment of the Medicines Act – I have already explained this in the Sports Committee. We discussed a bit with Mr Maier at the time, and he told me that the German Medical Agency’s pharmaceutical committee felt that this was positive in the Bundestag in 2007. I checked this by phone and found out that this is partly true – yes, that is right – but I was told about some difficulty in implementing it. This has to be addressed just once – we are voting in favour, but I would still like to address it. A possible problem which we must look at in the context of this legislative change – through the drugs, the doping substances, in any form, in the future subject to a labelling obligation – is that there could also be incentives for athletes active in the field of broadband to try out these drugs. On the other side On the other hand, patients who need certain medications, who then have such a label – that it is dangerous in this and the environment – may be insecure. I hope that we will get under control, even in the context of EU law, through which it is not supposed to be so easy to simply rewrite these drug accompanying texts at national level. I hope that this is thoughtful and thoughtful and will not be removed later by a possible extrajudicial judgment, because it is a reasonable arrangement. In summary, we can say that with this law, we have always expressed our opinion that top sports without doping is the biggest lie in the professional sports industry, a strong sign. On the other hand, we react, so we help the reputation of sports again to the position which he deserves. Fairness, friendship and companionship! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18300	Now comes Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18321	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too, as committee chairman, can thank colleagues in the committee and the sports speakers at this point. That was really a good preparation, actually a parade performance, in this committee in the last half year. There were subcommittees and an intensive expert discussion through which we, as it were, also guarantee the continuation of the international WADA code, the anti-doping code, here in Austria. But in addition, we have made a further adjustment – yes, we can say intensification – of the doping legislation. This is exemplary in Europe, which has already been said. It is true that we have an exemplary law and there was a very good discussion with the experts in the committee, but – and this is the restriction – it was certainly not a good discussion at the beginning for Austrian sport and for the reputation of Austrian sport, when the impression was made that we were at all the center of the international doping scene, a envelope of doping and doping probes. This is not the case, and at this point – and I am really doing it briefly – it is to be said that 99 percent of Austrian top athletes are clean and do not dope, that belongs once. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, it would be wrong to suddenly create new criminal offences now, as it is imaginative to take action, regulate and criminalise athletes in Bausch and Arch. Mr Minister, I am glad that you have heard that the Austrian Parliament does not wish to do so and that at the end we have agreed in this large, broad majority. I would like to say something about sports fraud – because Mr Karlsböck has now put it out like this: All of this would have been possible up to now if we had proper prosecutors attacking such things. But after the fraud record, even after other crimes, there would be a persecution now already possible. However, this is difficult to understand because the enrichment plan must always be there. It will also be difficult in the future to finally prove to a sportsman that he has taken doping solely because of the fact that he wants a prize money. This will be very difficult, but still: We have always said that self-use, self-use must not be punished because essentially no one is harmed with it except himself – and everyone is responsible for himself. That is why we have also achieved very well with this line, that is right. Also very good to note one last point is the fact that in future public funding will be looked at more closely, and if a sportsman of the doping has been transferred, he can and must be reclaimed public funding in the sense of commonness and society. That is right and is also in line with our thinking. Overall, this is a good development and no criminalization – congratulations, that is a good achievement! I believe that we should move on to the next issue – Mr Wittmann already knows what I mean – on the basis of this example, that in the next few weeks we will also attack the topic of sport promotion, federal sport promotion and discuss equally intensively and come to a modern, proper sport promotion, which is also in line with modern regulations.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18388	Mr Brosz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18409	Madam President. Minister! Having heard several times today from colleagues of the ÖVP, how uncooperatively, especially the Greens, but also the opposition in total – the colleagues from the “Mäldrescherfraction” have somehow shove on it – this may be a model example of how things go differently. This is also due, among other things, to the access of the sports spokespersons of the government parties, Peter Haubner and Hermann Kristi, who in recent years have always tried to start talks with the opposition in advance in order to achieve as broad a majority as possible. Perhaps you could even do such seminars in the club, as it would in principle be? That would be kind of helpful, even in other areas. You can talk before you bring it in, you can then between... – That's not the Lord's teacher, that's thanks for certain forms, which are also available in the government groups. [[Abg. Head: Yes, Mr. Oberlehrer!]] Mr Klubobmann Kopf, you may also be able to learn about how this is done there, including intermediate information. It's not like the thing is fixed and finished on the table and then it's said: Fresh or dead! This is clearly different in the sports sector, that is positive and I would like to thank you for that. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – If there are difficulties with the clubman there, you also have to endure this, but there are apparently also forms of cooperation that are better carried out. I do not want to say that, at the end of the day, this has also ended in a reasonable form with the Minister of Sport – with all the difficulties we had before. Especially in the last stages, when we agreed to the text, there was a great deal of willingness to do so together. I believe that what is really exemplary and practical in the process in Parliament is a practice that has not really taken place many times in recent weeks and months – from my perspective after nine years of education speakers also in recent years and decades. What actually happened to the law? – There was a fierce discussion about whether to introduce criminal measures in the case of doping in sport. Finally, I believe, it can be said, in summary, that the Minister has at times thought of putting the deaf into practice as a criminal offence, but this has not come to mind. What has come is a clarification in the determination of fraud. There were different opinions, including the experts who said several times that even now more would be possible. I don't think that's the central point at all. The other points that are decided in the background are probably far more important, for example the question of repayments, which seems to have been dealt with much more difficult so far. Now it is clear that the sport promotion can be recovered from the doping process. I believe that the form that we are now introducing, namely that we have a possibility to distinguish between those who contribute to the Enlightenment and are willing to say also about the backgrounds, and those who do not want to do so, is good. With those who cooperate, we can deal with repayment differently than with those who say: I don't care, that's what we're going through; let's see who can prove something to me! One important point, I believe, is another criterion of differentiation, as there have been occasions for husked athletes, namely those who have subsequently re-entered. It is important to introduce a longer period and say: If someone has committed a doping mistake and finished his active career, then the time limit in which he is again under doping control should be longer than the one not baptized. – In the amendment today, it has been clarified once again that there should be differentiation. Also in the field of prevention, the clarification is important, especially in cases that have now occurred, where via “I didn’t baptize” until “It was proved to me” it was then gradually admitted that it took place all the time – and two weeks later these athletes then stood in schools and performed doping prevention. At least there is such a clear sign that it is not wanted. So for the time of the lock, deaf athletes should not even appear as anti-doping fighters – perhaps sometimes also with funded and paid projects. This is about athletes who switch from sports promotion to prevention promotion and build up a new stand there. I believe that this is well regulated that we have found a good solution. There are probably other areas: I would say that the sports betting sector is also something we should look at more closely in the near future – the question of how the control mechanisms are there. It'll probably come to us soon. But I think that this was really an example where parliamentarianism has also been well lived out. I think that's a good performance. Whether it works in the sport and the doping area as planned, we will see. – Sometimes we have thought that the law we have made is so good that it should work, and then we have come to believe that there must be massive adaptations. That is why we may not get around in the area, but as it is now, it is very good. After Otto Pendl is not there, I will now go to Mr Darabos and thank him with my handshake!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18467	Next speaker: Federal Minister Mag. Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18488	Madam President. High house! It is, from my point of view, a milestone that is decided today – we should not put our light under the Scheme. We received congratulations from countries from the USA through India to New Zealand, we received congratulations from the WADA and the International Olympic Committee for our hard action against Doping. The novelle of § 147 is embedded in the changes, in which it has now been clarified that the sport fraud is also included. Mr Westenthaler is, of course, right, that has already been possible, but this clarification is already important from my point of view, because it shows that the infringement of Doping is not regarded by the judiciary as a cavalier's offence. On a number of points which have already been raised today and which are included in the law to be adopted, I would like to make a brief comment. Firstly, the life-long exclusion of disabled full-year athletes, if doping procedures have been demonstrated to them or their caregivers, is possible by the federal sport promotion and the recovery of federal sports funding from the time of the doping procedure. Furthermore, the one-year period referred to must be highlighted – this is now applicable instead of the previous six months, for athletes who want to return after a doping barrier. In addition, we have also improved the legal basis between NADA and law enforcement authorities, as well as information from the competent authorities on the imposition of professional sanctions – if, for example, doctors, veterinarians, dentists or pharmacists have been involved in doping procedures. In addition, we have agreed on this – a thank you to Parliament – although there have been critical voices that we are amending the Medicines Act towards Doping Prevention, which is why a reference to prohibited doping-related active substances will be included in the package leaflets of medicinal products in the future. - All these are milestones from my point of view. I am a little sorry that a discussion, which was also held in public, will take place here in Parliament at so later hours. Sports would also deserve to be discussed at a better time – perhaps also at the time of broadcast on television – because this is also covered by the interest of the population in this issue. [[General condolences.]] It is undisputed that the Anti-Doping Federal Act has already made tremendous progress in 2008, but this revision has now allowed for a tighter, fine-tuning, which, as has been said, Europe and the world. I am also with Mr Brosz: Whether this will be the last step, I cannot say because the methods in the doping are also becoming more and more efficient, but as quickly as Austria has hardly anyone responded to this issue. I should like to conclude by thanking all the parties in Parliament – I, too, have learned in this process, I say this openly – for the compromise capacity and for the consensus. It is important that all the parties represented in the Parliament commit themselves to this fight against doping. At the end of my short speech I can also renew what I have already said in the Committee – and here I am with the chairman of the Sports Committee – that we will now also try to reach a five-party compromise in 2010. It is high time to reform the federal sport promotion as well. I would like to renew this offer at the end of my speech today, with my thanks for this unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18552	Mrs Oberhauser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18574	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to refer to the amendments to the Medicines Act. When we think of doping, we think of anabolics, erythropoietin or other substances. But it's a lot, much easier. An example: The sailing world champion in the Senior Sailor, an Austrian, also has a young family doctor who prescribed a beta blocker because of his high blood pressure. The medicine is marked in sailing as a doping agent and is on the doping list. So the title was gone, the man locked. But it goes down much, much deeper, for example, when we consider that many of us suffer from the flu. If someone is suffering from the flu and at the same time is a sportsman, the question arises whether he can take aspirin or aspirin complex. Maybe the pharmacist and the doctor don't know exactly how the regulations are, and I'm taking aspirin – that's clean. However, if I take Aspirin Complex, it contains an ephedrin that is on the doping list from 1.1.2010 onwards. If I'm tested, I'm gone and have a punishment. That is, in that sense, it is extremely important, I believe, that doctors, pharmacists and pharmacists, but also patients can take advantage of it, and get increased safety. Let me close with another perhaps a little extraordinary example, which is all on the doping list! I made the effort and went through the doping list, at least after a few keywords, and looked at what was there. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Nasivin!]] I can imagine that there are some people among us who have their mouths open all the time by day; they usually do so at night. What is the result? - Snoring. If the one snoring – this is a fight snoring – is still a martial sportsman, and his wife says, swallow something!, and he swallows “Snarch-ex”, something that you can simply buy in the pharmacy, then this is a stimulant and is on the doping list. [[Abg. Head: That sounds deadly!]] That means you should really watch what you swallow when you're a top sportsman. And the examples can't be as banal as if you couldn't be on the locklist.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18623	Mr Pack has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18645	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have proved that the work in the committee has proved it: Sports connects across the borders of social societies, connecting nations and thus also political parties across all graves. It was really a good job to introduce this all-party application in the final effect with these changes. Thank you, of course, to the individual speakers of the respective groups, especially Hermann Kristind Peter Haubner. Peter Haubner, in particular, made a great effort to make this consensus again and again. [[Assured by Members of Parliament, Head and Amon.]] I would also like to thank my group once again to our sports spokespersons. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen – the previous speakers have explained everything – one should say: Live the sport, a cleaner sport without doping with good doping prevention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18690	Mr Markowitz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18711	Madam President. Mr. Minister! It has been said almost everything in this respect, but the Federal Sports Promotion Act is unfortunately a bit inconsistent with God – I have already said that in committee. I think it is absolutely good that full-year-old athletes can be suspended by the sport promotion, no longer get money and have to pay it back when they do. But you also have to go on: Even young athletes who get their money from the sports promotion should then be blocked, because I mean, doping is not a cavalier crime. That's why you should fix this later. As far as the care staff are concerned, I would also like to say briefly: I don't think it's good that after four years the care staff can be locked back with the athletes. With regard to doping prevention, we have tabled this amendment, which is good. Because I don't think it's good that baptized athletes in schools are almost playing out the healing life. A sportsman who is doping has not lost anything in schools, in classes, among young people. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Minister, you have already mentioned this: I also think it is important that in the future the topic of sport has a better priority, that is to say, we should try the next time – and we mentioned this in the Committee – to deal with this issue earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18757	Mr Mayer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18778	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was when we looked at the list of speakers, where it was still planned who should have actually spoken; therefore, not for lack of attention or for lack of attention: I would like to express my thanks to the previous speakers. It is not an everyday action in Parliament, especially to achieve this five-party agreement. If one has seen at the beginning the position of the Minister and the position of the various parliamentarians, this is really an excellent compromise, which now has a model in an effective fight against doping. I would like to make two brief points. The one is the life-long exclusion of disabled adults from the Federal Sports Fund because of the doping process and the fact that athletes have to repay the paid federal sports funding with doping errors. This is not only fraud in sport, it is also fraud against taxpayers. This should be clearly limited here, that these things are no longer possible. The second point – how would it be possible? – is prevention. It seems very important to me that you do something about clubs and schools too. The framework agreement between the Ministry of State Defense, the Ministry of Education and the Federal Sports Organisation is very important to me, because it is very crucial that we also put in place preventive measures in the sports associations and schools in the education of children. They're possible now. I would also like to join the circle of those who don't think it's good if athletes who were doping sinners were very massive doping sinners after a year in schools are set as models. I also see this as very critical as a educator. [[Abg. Head: Thank you, Elmar!]] By the way, I would like to thank you very much and I am pleased that fraud in sport has come back to the background with today's decision-making. -Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18813	Mr Obernosterer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18834	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a former national frame runner in the race tobogganing on the natural track for four years, of course, the sport is a very, very big concern – and especially that it is also operated cleanly. [[Owl at BZÖ]] [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] We know that Austria is a sports nation, Austria has many top athletes. The top athletes are at the centre, so to speak, in the display window. The top athletes are the models of our youth, and therefore it is also important to make the laws from the legislation in such a way that it is almost impossible for professional baptism. That is why I am also pleased to have been with the Sports Subcommittee and that the evaluated new anti-doping federal law and the pharmaceuticals law are now on the table right now. And this has also been shown by all the political groups, as has been said, that all of us are concerned about sports and the role model for our youth – clean sports. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Thank you so much for being here today. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you once again for this unanimity and hope that it will also bring the desired success that Austria will continue to be a clean sports nation in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18891	Mr Deputies has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18913	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister for Sport! Doping is a poison for sports. Doping probes cause serious damage to the image of the sport, and they still receive great attention in some media even after their transfer as doping probes. Above all, the ORF does not garnish with transmission times for doping probes. The ORF hopes perpetrators like Kohl and Mayer, both are known, and also Lightenegger. Bernhard Kohl dipped at the Tour de France, Walter Mayer did blood doping in Turin. Both, however, still receive long contributions in the sports reporting. Kohl was even loaded to the “Kaiser. ” The show “We are emperors” offered him a embarrassing stage. Unfortunately! Here, ladies and gentlemen, we expect more fingertips from the ORF. The ORF must strike a harder course than doping probes. That would be an important solution. Doping probes are to be banished from the screens, the reporting in the ORF has only to focus on a minimum. The ORF in its overall reporting should increasingly promote and promote clean sports. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Here, ladies and gentlemen, I should particularly like to ask you from the Federal Government, namely the ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, that you be the owners of the red and black ORF, as those you have colored this ORF, to do so: Pressure the ORF for a serious report! Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, we are now jointly adopting stricter anti-doping regulations. And with this advanced law, we create the framework conditions for the difficult fight against doping. These anti-doping provisions must be transported quickly, where they are used, namely to athletes, to associations and to doctors. You need to know about the content. Honest athletes must thus be protected from the doping sinners as an idol.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18959	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e18980	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I think we have one of the most modern doping laws available in the world today. We have also not left our principle of bringing this about in a five-party agreement. I think that's what I'm saying. It also shows the will of all the parties represented here in the house to fight serious doping. I am of course also pleased, as a representative of sportsmen and sportsmen, that sportsmen have not been criminalised. Fraud was punishable before, it is also now punishable. This means, however, that no sportsman is more punishable than before, because the practice of “truth ” had already been given. It's just a qualification, it's not a new practice, it's a qualification. That means: Normally, the qualification of serious fraud in the event of damage of €3 000, we now have a qualification that has already been given a qualification as a serious fraud from the low level of €100 to €100, but at least before €3 000. That is, the fraud was punishable before, is now also punishable, has this qualification. Finally, no athlete is subject to criminal law more than before. I think that is reasonable, a tangible solution and a very, very modern law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19017	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19038	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! With this legislative initiative, a further development of sports law such as criminal anti-doping law in Austria is taking place. We have a model function in this law for Europe, for all other countries. I would like to remind you of one thing: The first step we took in the last year, when we changed a government template here, was also joint, and put blood doping under judicial sanctions, for example. This has not left us the Ministry of Justice to this day. But I would like to stress: With these criminal regulations from 2008 the successful work of the SOKO doping was only possible. The SOKO doping was successful, and I think it is good for us to thank the criminals and the employees of the SOKO doping. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now, of course, the question is: How's the SOKO doping going on? – Mr Federal Minister, we combine this with the hope that these experienced people in the Federal Criminal Office will be pooled in the drug group and can bring their experience in, for one cannot be: that the SOKO doping will be dissolved and that these further work can no longer be continued. The NADA Austria depended on the results of the SOKO doping, which NADA Austria determines without regard for person and sportsmen, as we were able to learn again today. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the staff of Andi Schwab, who are doing an excellent job, very much. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, one conclusion: In the APA one could read today that Spain does not issue the blood samples of the Fuentes lab. We will therefore not avoid, Minister of State, addressing the question of doping at European level over and over again, because we need harmonised provisions here, not only in sports law, but also in sports law. also in criminal law. That is why we should fight together as Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19101	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 518 of the supplements. Hiezu have the representatives of Kristi, Peter Haubner, Kickl, Ing. Westenthaler, Brosz, colleagues and others tabled an amendment concerning Articles 1 and 2. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall leave the draft law with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Kristi, Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Kickl, Mr Ing. Westenthaler, Brosz, colleagues. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a positive sign. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kristi, Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Kickl, Mr Ing. Westenthaler, Brosz, colleagues on information from doctors. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 76.) [[21:56:03]] 26. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (328 D.B._Other Organiser Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on scientific and technical cooperation (519 d.a.) 27. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (341 D.B._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Montenegro on scientific and technical cooperation (520 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19194	We now come to points 26 and 27 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19221	Madam President. Mr. President, Minister of State, Mr. Hahn! Ladies and gentlemen! The primary objective of this Agreement is to promote bilateral relations in the field of science and research. Such bilateral agreements are important for the creation of a European Higher Education Area. Another important measure for the implementation of the European Higher Education Area is the Bologna model with its division in Bachelor, Master and Ph.D. This will enable studies across Europe to be made uniform and comparable, as well as to make testing services available internationally through a system of performance points. Especially in recent weeks, Bologna's study architecture in Austria has led to intense discussions because it was the implementation of Bologna's study architecture at the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna, which was the trigger for the currently ongoing student protests. The protests then quickly spread to the other universities, and that is little surprising. If 60 percent of the students find themselves in 10 percent of the studies, then the mass university and, of course, the displeasure of students and teachers suffering from the bad conditions at the mass universities. But in view of the problems at the mass universities, one thing is clear to me: Money alone cannot solve the problems in mass studies! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Professor Rudolf Taschner, mathematician and scientist of the year 2004, will present it in the “FORMAT” of 6. On November 7, 2009, the point was raised. I quote literally: "Before the required money flows, it would be important to formulate what is expected of the university. (...) Either they are educational institutions: (...) or they are educational institutions: (...) Of course, you may wish that university offers both. But in no way as a mixed mesh, because then both training and education are condemned to failure in it.” – Quotes. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, what we need is a broad basic social consensus on the role of our universities as well as on the framework conditions and resources of our universities for the current challenges. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is already enshrined in the government programme that there is a need for an overall approach to the design of the Austrian university area. The discussion should have started at the beginning of 2010 and, due to student protests, has now invited Minister of Science Hahn to a university dialogue a few weeks earlier. The representatives of the Austrian University School as well as the representatives of the students from the occupied audiences, who no longer feel represented by the ÖH, were invited to do so. [[Abg. Scheibner: He didn't invite the Sandlers!]] I hope for constructive discussions and close with a quote by Heinrich Neisser from 1986, and that is the remarkable thing – I quote –: A responsible dialogue reveals a confession and renews consciousness. A more on both would not harm Austrian higher education policy. - Quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19273	Now comes Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19294	Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with two bilateral agreements, one with Slovenia and one with Montenegro, on this item in the agenda. Mr Karl, my previous speaker, has already spoken. Notes that such bilateral agreements have a high role to play in the development of the Austrian Higher Education Area and in promoting mobility and the exchange of students. You, Mrs Colleague, have referred to the Bologna process, the Bologna architecture, you have raised a number of points. What I find very interesting is what to check: I have heard over and over again in the last few days that, not because of the Bologna architecture, but since the Bologna architecture – one should analyze the effects here – the mobility of Austrian students has not just increased, which would have been the objective of the Bologna architecture to increase mobility. I would find it worthwhile to analyze this and look for the reasons to find out how you could work in this way. Because you addressed the Mass University: I think such signals are exactly those that have led to the student protests of the last few days. If the students always hear that this is alarming if many young people want to further qualify, then of course this is a conscious or unconscious provocation, at least effective. We should also work intensively next year to create framework conditions for universities with which we can ensure that more students are able to study under better study conditions and, of course, a better financial provision of universities is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19333	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19355	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! The agenda is an agreement on scientific and technical cooperation with Slovenia and Montenegro. However, I am now concerned with reaching an agreement between the university dialogue initiated by Minister Hahn and Parliament, in particular with the Scientific Committee, in fact, even more precisely, with a subcommittee which we have requested from the opposition and which has prevented the government parties because they seem to confuse the Christmas holidays of the Parliament which are supposed to last until the end of March. There was an application in the Scientific Committee for the first time on the results of the university dialogue. March next year should be discussed in the Scientific Committee, i.e. a quarter of a year useless time for Parliament. We believe that we may also be able to conduct the deliberations in parallel with the Scientific Committee, better still in a subcommittee, in order to be able to address some fundamental issues together with the experts who also advise the university dialogue. For what does this bring when the university dialogue meets and meets and meets? Then he may be ready next year, if at all, in autumn, and then we still have to put it into practice in Parliament. That is to say, it will be important and right to start with a number of fundamental questions in Parliament. That's what it's all about: What about regulated qualitative access? Are we in favour of the fact that, as the BZÖ demands, the first two semesters serve as an observation period for the students, that only the student who is really willing and wants to do so, and not the one who perhaps only imagines this, but does not bring the necessary education? Or: It is also about the access arrangements in the quantitative field, such as the discussion of tuition fees or registration fees, which can be eliminated in parallel for Austrian students by creating a university bonus of around €5,000 to ensure that, salopp, the flood of students from Germany in Austria is curtailed. Unless one is also prepared to discuss compensatory payments, as they are, for example, going along at municipal level at school entrance fees. So these are things to pre-dispute, taboo, just open, honest: What does one bring, what does the other bring?, but for that, ÖVP and SPÖ are not ready. But it is also about the evaluation of the Bologna process – it has already been addressed. He was meant to be good, but he was badly implemented. That is, we are in principle opposed to the fact that the higher education system, including Austria, is being Americanized. The question is then: What do I need a Bachelor if I can have a FH student much better and cheaper? It is about basic funding, it is about financing universities, where starting funding of 250 million is urgently needed. If we wait for the dialogue, we will sleep again. It is about promoting research, how we develop it, how we network it with private research. It is about the autonomy of the universities, that they also evaluate what is already set out in the UOG. It is generally about the offer of universities in this country, about equipment, about infrastructure, and it is also about student mobility and also about internationalization. These are fundamental questions which we must and should specify from policy so that we can discuss them on the basis of the university dialogue. One last word to the Uni-occupiers: I think the time is over. It is important and right to draw attention to existing abuses and to allow protests, so that a discussion process also comes about, but the time is over, time out. It is there – I say it openly – in part only more homeless, also “sandlers” – under quotation marks – and hardly any more students. So the Audimax crew has already missed their goal far. I am in favour of us – and I am quite honest with that – to allow the university, the Audimax, to return to the students who want to study and can also give them the opportunity to do so. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] I think you have to make order, too, and you don't need a university dialogue to do that. That is to say, it is now about breaking up the protests and blockades and think blockades, including the ideological, to end the student's think blockades and protests, to come to the matter, to come to the content. And it is also about ending the educational blockade of the coalition of ÖVP and SPÖ, which is reflected in the fact that it does not allow a subcommittee. I therefore ask you from SPÖ and ÖVP to: Let us work, including in the Science Committee, in a subcommittee, and finish the blockade! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19425	Mr Dr. Zinggl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19448	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! So I have to say that we have been discussing in the club for a long time whether or not we should agree to this agreement, and finally we have come to believe that we will be very happy and all agreeable. What really is the bright and cynical insanity of the whole thing: We are negotiating an agreement with Macedonia or Montenegro or Slovenia or what – and in fact, the universities, the universities, are the ones behind. The best example of a completely paralysed higher education policy was the last science committee where all 15 requests for the agenda were postponed, without discussion. That is to say, there is no scientific policy at all by Parliament and not by the government at all. The Minister, Mr Hahn, is not interested in this. He is mentally already in Brussels anyway. Higher education policy is completely paralysed. All requests to the budget, to the rescue plans, to quality assurance, to increase staff, everything was postponed, without discussion. The excuse has always been, there are now university dialogues anyway. That's a kind of parallel structure, it's all being shifted into the ministry, so to speak, then there are round tables that then chat over everything possible for a year at the coffee wrench. There is nothing more going on in this sector at all. This agreement is interesting. I read a paragraph. It says that we are promoting the mutual development of universities. I believe that this agreement is therefore interesting because it is a unilateral agreement. We will very soon need developments in Montenegro, Slovenia, Slovakia and so on, because: We're tomorrow's Montenegro! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19485	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19506	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Zinggl, I do not think that we should establish parallel structures here in Parliament. This is the springing point, because what would make more sense than bringing the people involved – and this is what our science minister does – to a table and to discuss the situation on the ground?- Oh, my God! And there are now those who move on site at the universities: Students as well as of course also the middle construction and professors. And that's what happens. There has been a proposal for an application to discuss the results of this university dialogue in the Committee. Mr Widmann criticised the fact that the date for this committee was too late. – Well, one might have preferred it, but unfortunately the committee president, Dr Graf, has not approved this request at all. Perhaps that was his day because he was able to deliver a demonstration of power as committee chairman. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In any event, I am sorry that this request for a higher education dialogue has not been accepted and that we are missing the basis here in Parliament for discussing the content, at least as far as the current situation is concerned. I hope that we can then at least discuss the results – and then also constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19557	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19579	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The value is actually different. If, for example, I think that Mr National Council President Count is the chairman of the Scientific Committee and, in parallel with the debate here, convenes a subcommittee meeting or organises a meeting of his group of friends in his office, this also shows a certain importance which at least part of the opposition contributes to this issue. I believe that the two scientific speakers Karl and Kuntzl have described very well what are the problems of the current student protests. It is really interesting that, in contrast to earlier times, today's protests are less about a change in society, but rather about very concrete improvements to which we are called. The main problem is indeed the baccalaureates, the Bachelor's regulations, in which there is really resentment and where you have to look for opportunities. The main problem is that there is a fear that this is not a study, but that the school will be virtually extended – and therefore, of course, it will come to protests. However, I would also like to use this meeting today to thank Mr Hahn for his work. I assume that this is his last appearance here in Parliament today. Probably, because you never know what kind of special sessions there will be here. At any rate, I would like to wish Mr President-in-Office Dr. Hahn, on behalf of our group, every good thing for his work in Brussels and a lot of strength. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19612	Mr Dr Rosenkranz spoke on an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19636	Thank you, Madam President. – Mrs Fuhrmann said that the chairman of the Scientific Committee, President Graf, had made a “might demonstration” in the absence of such a request. In fact, it is true that Mr President Graf is able, unlike some others, to interpret and act on the Rules of Procedure correctly. An agreement with the Republic of Montenegro has nothing to do with the higher education summit.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19684	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19706	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! I share the view of my previous speakers that the agreement with Montenegro and Slovenia is a meaningful cooperation and will certainly upgrade Austria's scientific location. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Propos Science location: A few thoughts about the Audimax occupations. To be used for better conditions for the scientific location of Austria and at the universities is a very delicious thing and certainly also to support. With a proper demonstration of attracting the attention of the population is certainly also part of this, but: On the one hand, to demand more money for universities, and on the other hand, with this activism, which is being demonstrated here, to cause millions of damage, one cannot certainly support it. I also believe that the majority of the population do not blame this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am afraid of the image of our students and really would like to ask everyone to act according to the motto “studenting instead of blocking! ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19757	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19778	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! First of all, I should like to thank those two colleagues from the BZÖ who today are not sitting in this cheap and transparent manner of the Greens. These two colleagues from the BZÖ – unlike their orange party friends – did not join the vote of distrust against Minister Berlakovich. Hat off in front of you and your far-sighted view! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I too, of course, am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the two agreements under discussion today and that all parties will agree. On the subject of Uni-Employer, I should like to thank my previous speaker and colleague Peter Mayer fully: These ladies and gentlemen have not been concerned for a long time about the certainly justified display of misunderstandings, because it is really strange in which direction these protests have developed. Federal Minister Hahn invites you to a university dialogue – and what do these blockers and occupyers do? – They organize a casting, send in further succession masked, disguised “sends”, which have no reasonable demands. A real Kasperl Theatre! [[Abg. May. Honey: Who's the Kasperl?]] In addition, this blocking minority of some only ten to 15 people has already been paralysing the ordinary university business for weeks. They are acting unolidarically towards those students who really want to make rapid progress in their studies and now have problems in obtaining their scholarship due to cancelled events. [[Abg. May. Honey: Don't talk about solidarity! You can't even spell that!]] As a result of the occupation of the Audimax, costs have already been incurred in millions of heights. Homeless people now benefit from the Audimax as a welcome winter quarter; there has also already been material damage. All in all, these occupyers have long exceeded the limit of the future. Therefore: Stop being funny! You can and do not need to negotiate with this remaining remnant. The rector is urgently required to remove this negotiable fun-responsible pe from the Audimax – and if it has to be, even with the help of the police. [[Abg. Neugebauer: The University Council too, not only the Rector!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This may give bad headlines again in beggar-friendly media, but a removal of these people from Audimax is the only right way. We thus save ourselves a lot of money for the rental of spare spaces, and on the other hand, the diligent and well-willed students can finally continue their studies again. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19860	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Hahn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19881	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank you for this broad support for these two Treaties, which are ultimately an expression of what is also part of scientific work, of science policy, of international cooperation, of bringing together scientists. Mr Mayer has rightly pointed out that from the paper form, perhaps my last appearance here in the House is with you. Although it is the right place, it may be the wrong time to draw a broad summary here. Anyway, I really want to thank you for the last three years. Logically, there has not always been a consensus and a uniform view on all points, but there has been very stimulating discussions. I would say that just the last few weeks have led to a broader public attention on the subject of universities, the subject of colleges – the tertiary sector as a whole and, if you want to do so, education policy in general – and it would be nice if, on the basis of facts and circumstances, we would continue this discussion in the broad field even in the next few months. The future of our country is appropriate to maintain this wide range of discussion and commitment, because it is about the most precious thing we have, namely our youth. It always says that our boys represent only 20 percent of the population, but they make up 100 percent of our future. It is therefore only appropriate to deal with this intensively. Thank you once again – and I wish you a lot of success in your work!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e19927	Thank you very much, Minister of State! We wish you all the best for your future work. No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of the rapporteur is not wanted. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the proposal of the Scientific Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Austria the public of Slovenia on scientific and technical cooperation in 328 of the Supplements, in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the request of the Scientific Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Montenegro on scientific and technical cooperation in 341 of the Supplements, as provided for in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:21:02]] 28. Point Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Barbara Prammer, Fritz Neugebauer, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Herbert Scheibner, Dieter Brosz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975) (492 d.b.) (Third reading) 29. Point Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Barbara Prammer, Fritz Neugebauer, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Herbert Scheibner, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. (Third reading)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e20028	We now come to points 28 and 29 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. [[22:21:48]] As the 24-hour period between second and third readings as provided for in § 108 of the Rules of Procedure has not yet been fulfilled, Members of Parliament have requested Dr. Cap, Kopf, Strache, Bucher and Brosz to postpone the agenda items 28 and 29. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:22:20]] 30. Point Report by the Immunities Committee on the request of the Central Public Prosecutor to prosecute corruption (1st 247/09k) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Karl Oellinger (581 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e20077	We're going to 30. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. [[22:22:43]] There is no one to speak, so we shall vote on the request from the Committee on Immunities in 581 of the supplements to decide on the following: In consideration of the request of the Central Procuratorate for the persecution of corruption, limited by letter of 2. On 12 December 2009, the Commission adopted a Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of official persecution of the MP to the National Council Karl Oellingerwill be in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG found that there is no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council of Karl Oellinger. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:23:35]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-11-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00051_d8e20136	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 922/A(E) to 936/A(E). Questions 3943/J to 4033/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
