ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2119	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen – in the truest sense of the word! I'll open the 43. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of the 40. Meeting of 21 March 1991 ==References====External links== Meeting of 22. ==References====External links== Meeting of 23. In October 2009, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Lohfeyer, Mag. Worm, big truck, power. Hakl, Dr. Plassnik, Scheibner, Brosz, Mag. Jarmer and Dr. Fichtenbauer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2150	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for Finance Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Maria Fekter and the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture Dr. Claudia Schmied by the Federal Minister for Health Alois Stöger. [[08:01:37]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2192	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2335	Members Dr Pilz, colleagues and colleagues requested urgent consideration of the written question tabled at the beginning of the meeting by Dr Pilz, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Justice concerning ‘government justice and ministerial blockade’. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 11 a.m. I also announce that the meeting will be broadcast live by ORF from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. I am now interrupting the meeting until 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2374	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. [[11:01:48]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Peter Pilz, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Justice on the Justice of Government and Ministerial Blockade (3556/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2412	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 3556/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2739	I declare Mr. Dr. Pilz as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2761	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that most of you, like the Minister of Justice, are not particularly pleased that a special meeting is taking place today. In our opinion, however, it must take place. I will further explain this in many details. First of all, to a criticism which is not just brought to us by Members on the road these days. [[Abg. Wheelers: not you!]] Not only do students say: Why is Parliament concerned, why does the National Council in the days and weeks of the largest crisis in the Austrian universities not deal with our education system, but – as is claimed in particular, but not only by the ÖVP – only with itself? To this “with myself” I will come then, but first something about this question. We will see in the course of the debate that the reasons for the crisis of the universities that lie with the government and the reasons why we are talking about a ministerial blockade that goes far beyond Parliament's interests are not so different. If the students are going to the street today, we have to ask ourselves as a Member of Parliament: Why are they going to the street? You're saying, "Yes." We want to study! Why do they have to go to the street? – Because a responsible government policy has been starved into the universities of Austria for many years and threatens the future of this country – and not just that of the students. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If the government is not prepared to address the needs of the universities, this must be done by Parliament! That is why the National Council is in demand. The universities need an emergency budget of at least €200 million. The universities need the money decided by the National Council – exclusively against the votes of the ÖVP – last year. They need the money; and the goal is a doubling of the university budgets by 2020. You will need €200 million this year, €400 million next year and spending on science and research in 2020 amounting to 2% of the gross domestic product. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In view of the fact that the National Council is talking to students, today we will bring this motion for a resolution back and together give us the opportunity – if the government does not do so – to force Parliament to invest the millions and billions needed in education from the Ministers of Science and Finance. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Another topic has been chosen!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hornek:... difficulties, deputies!]] The second accusation is – I read it in a daily newspaper today – that: The National Council is only concerned with itself today! – Two objections: The first: We also have a ministerial blockade in the field of science, research and universities. What makes science minister Hahn different from a ministerial blockade? He does not go to the universities, he does not negotiate with the students, he does not require the Finance Minister the urgently necessary special budget, but he explains only two ways. First: He's tracking everything on the Internet. – To do this, we need a minister of science?- Oh, my God! And second: One, two days before his flight to Brussels, he is willing to meet with university delegates. That's not how it is, Minister of State Hahn! You too must give up your ministerial blockade before it is politically and personally too late for you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I'm coming to the other ministerial blockade. I don't know if the Minister of Justice is here today. It will assure us, yes, of course, they will come wherever they are invited. [[Abg. Grosz: Also in the coffee house!]] We have sent you this invitation. You're here today. But we have to answer a question: Why is it so important for the Austrian People's Party and the SPÖ attached to it that five responsible ministers cannot be questioned about their political responsibility in the Committee of Inquiry? [[Congratulation of the Abg. Linder]] I'll tell you: The reason is not that this is about Members' privileges. The reason is that a survey on political responsibility, in particular for the Austrian People's Party, is a huge problem because at the latest people will see in this Republic: This is not about the immunity of Members, but about problems in the Republic, from the recoloration and ruining of the criminal police to the waste of tax billions, not only in the BUWOG affair. - That's the point! For years – since the Chancellorship of Wolfgang Schüssel – government members have been protected by governmental justice. There is – and this is one of the main findings of the investigative committee – the political department of the public prosecutor's office in Vienna. This one has from the Homepage affair of Mr. Mag. Grasser has always done the same to the e-mails and post- and party book economy of the ex-minister Strasser. She signaled ÖVP ministers: You can do what you want. You can do what you want! You can paint, you can give your friends millions and billions of euros, you can misuse the state wealth for private purposes, nothing can happen to you! We have created a system of governmental justice that will prevent the prosecutor from pursuing even one crime! You are safe from persecution for corruption! You're safe from persecutions for party accounting! You're safe from persecution for abuse of power! [[Abg. Hornek: Hanebüchen nonsense!]] And that's what ÖVP ministers understood! To date, the Ministry of the Interior has been recolored, and the Minister of Justice has just begun the ÖVP overcoloring in two sections. To date, the security area has been changed. [[Abg. Rädler: That's a fool!]] To date, a cabinet chief Kloibmüller, the key character of the party book economy in the Ministry of the Interior, stands for the new occupations in the department, which are always characterized by one: the same black party book. If the fight against crime has failed in Vienna today and the city of Vienna's intruders from Serbia, Moldova and Georgia – and not only from there – are largely unprotected, then this is not the responsibility of Vienna's criminal officials, but rather the consequence of a recoloration that has been sought in the history of Austria and has led to the fact that the criminal police are not only completely demoralized and unorientational in Vienna and can oppose organized crime much less than it could under a serious and objective leadership. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Policy of the Greens!]] Ministers such as the ex-Finanzminister Grasser are also doing this. As long as such finance ministers know that they can do everything with the ownership of the Republic, that the New Economy is a “friendly economy”, that the friends can stand up and cash hundreds of millions of euros, and the Minister knows that nothing can happen to him, because he is under the protection of the political department of the prosecutor’s office, as long as public assets are misused for precisely these purposes. And then what happens? – Then the investigation committee comes up – and this is what we owe to the parliamentary investigation! – that the prosecutor has forgotten the Strasser act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Then independent media and also the green MP Moser insist that the prosecutor has forgotten all the references to Karl-Heinz Grasser in the BUWOG and Immofinanz investigations. What's going on in the public prosecutor's office in Vienna? What's going on in the political department? Why can billions disappear, why can one of the most sensitive resorts be recoloured, and the prosecutors forget the files, forget the persecution of the responsible ministers? [[Abg. Wheelers: People are worried about others!]] This is a point we need to clarify. Then the Minister of Justice will act and say that this is a tribunal. – The National Council points out the abuses in the public prosecutor’s office in Vienna – abuses that the Minister of Justice has been informed in detail for months. She knew what happened in the Strasser procedure, she knew that in a procedure against employees of the BZÖ club and in a procedure under the title “Haidinger” in which a green Member was identified, constitutional breaks have been found by the Ministry and by the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office. What does the Minister of Justice do to draw Parliament's attention to this? – She says: This is a tribunal! – A tribunal that takes up the in-house accusations and says: Let us now ask the Minister of Justice in the Committee why she has not done anything and why she explains to the President of the National Council, it is all right in the political department of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (on the Federal Minister Mag. Darabos swiss) Now the Minister of Defense is coming!]] That's right, Mrs Mag. Bandion location: For the Austrian People's Party, everything is fine in the political department of the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office, but only for the Austrian People's Party and for you as Minister of Justice! For everyone else, nothing is all right in the public prosecutor's office in Vienna. There are states where people rightly say: That's unacceptable! [[Congratulation with the Greens and BZÖ and with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] With our tax billions and with our criminal police can't be handled like this! Public security needs interior ministers who obey the laws and not the laws of the party book economy! And the Ministry of Finance, the property of the Republic of Austria needs finance ministers who are the interests of the owners – and these are the people of this Republic! – represented and not friends of a Karl-Heinz Grasser and his real estate friends! So, what can we do now? First: We must break through this ministerial blockade, because it is indisputable that a parliament which has set up an investigation committee with the votes of the Austrian People's Party and Social Democracy must not question the ministers. Yes, all questions about political responsibility are addressed to the ministers! Or, Mrs. Mag. Bandion-Ortner, Minister of Justice, are the prosecutors now the political leaders? Are the officials of the BIA now the political leaders? Who actually bears the political responsibility if not you? Of course you can answer: No, that's not me, that's the Austrian People's Party! – However, we have no way of inviting the party leader of the ÖVP, who certainly bears a certain responsibility to the parliamentary committee of inquiry, since we must already prefer with the officially responsible ministers. That is why we meet here for a special meeting – and I fear that this will not be the last special session. That is why we must also make the gift made by the voters of Austrian democracy at the last National Council election, namely that they wisely benefit you, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties who have taken the two-thirds majority. We must signal you the following, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and, in particular, Mr Klubobmann's head: So it won't happen anymore that you say: Ministers, ministers and ministers must not be questioned in Parliament, but then knock on the door and say: We would have a two-thirds matter and need your signatures and voices, please sign there! – It won't play anymore. We have drawn your attention to the fact that, of course, we are negotiating at any time with those two-thirds of the majority whose implementation is in the absolute interest of the people in Austria, and we are getting the best out for the people in this Republic. But where this is not necessary and where people in Austria do not suffer direct damage, we will tell you, as Werner Kogler has already done in the Services Directive, that: There will be negotiating dates, but only when the ÖVP and its partners have pledged to the SPÖ that the ex-ministers Strasser and Berger and the ministers Bandion-Ortner and Fekter and Minister Darabos are at the disposal of the investigative committee. Before, please, save yourself from knocking on us – there will be no negotiating date! We will also try to enforce the control rights of this House against your apparent supremacy in this House! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] How is it going to go on now? Do you think I personally enjoy doing something with the FPÖ and the BZÖ? [[Call the SPÖ: Apparently yes!]] [[Call the ÖVP:No! That's great!]] Do you think that Mr Graf is particularly pleased to use these instruments together with me? No, no, I tell you one, Mr Head and Mr Cap: The Greens are not a party that is willing to jump into every political bed at any time. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] It's not us, it's others! They're sitting here on this side of the house and on this side of the house! [[The speaker points towards ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We did not elect Martin Graf as President of the National Council. We were the only ones who didn't do this! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you want clean West, go to your own political places, because the biggest spots are on the political west of ÖVP and SPÖ, as far as dealing with the political rights in this Republic is concerned! What we have here is not a political alliance, but a political military community – no more and no less. It is about an act of parliamentary emergency. [[Abg. Jury: We don't need one!]] This is an act where FPÖ, BZÖ and we have a common interest, in particular: to protect Parliament's right of control against the abuse of power by the ÖVP and the SPÖ assigned to it! Parliament needs this protection because Parliament's control rights are at risk. As long as ministers do not say here as long as they are covered and protected, as long as Parliament is in its most important role next to the legislation, namely the control of enforcement, is blocked. We cannot accept that. We have been elected by people in this Republic to ensure that control works. Something else, so there's no misunderstanding. We are not fighting for the privileges of Members. This is not an extension of parliamentary immunity. As Members of Parliament, I am deeply convinced that our work does not require extra-professional immunity in its present form. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Get out of here!]] Do you know who needs protection from the Austrian People's Party and its ministers? – Citizens need protection! Those who turn to the National Council to show a maladministration today may risk being threatened with their own existence and careers. That's dozen times, and it's not just the Ministry of the Interior. What was the response of the Minister of Justice to the submission of very sensitive and abusive judicial acts in the “Falter”? – Not: We will investigate these abuses and bring those responsible to account! [[Abg. Rädler: Who wrote this?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of Abg. Rädler) “Who wrote this? ”]] There has been a single response from the Minister for Justice: Where's the unmistakable place? – This is always the response of the government parties, in particular the EIA and also the Minister of Justice and always the Minister of the Interior: Where's the unmistakable place? The control in this House lives on narrow posts, lives by officials who are more important to the laws of this Republic than to cover the abuse of office and the abuse of power by politicians of the Austrian People's Party! That's what it's all about. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] That is why it is so important that we make recommendations and improve laws at the end of the Committee of Inquiry, not to protect Members, but to protect citizens, in particular those who work in public administration and want to identify and eliminate abuses. [[Abg. Hornek: The Oillinger!]] No, we do not need the protection of Mr Ollinger, but we need the protection of officials who say: Mrs Fekter has already turned over a whole police inspection, and I will provide the honourable Member with the following documents and evidence so that this threat to public security can be reversed by the party's book economy. – These officials, who trust something and who help us to eliminate abuses, need our protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek]] That is why we have to offer legal protection to those officials who trust something and show the courage, in the criminal code and in civil service law. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Parliament must remain the place of which citizens know that it cannot be at its disadvantage if they turn to their Members with misunderstandings. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hornek.]] - Yeah, that's what the reactions show me. For the Austrian People's Party, this is pretty much the biggest accident to be expected. [[Abg. Hornek: The affected are called mushrooms and oillingers!]] That is not what you want, because once information about abuse of power is protected by law to Parliament, if we as Members can rely on the fact that nothing can happen to the people who turn to us, then much more will be done – and not less! ....................................................................................................................... And this is the reason why you are so opposed to the fact that this Committee of Inquiry can invite and question ministers and that you are so much opposed to it that it comes to the conclusion that legislation can effectively combat and limit the abuse of power by the Austrian People's Party and its assigned SPÖ. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That is why: Ladies and gentlemen, this is an emergency situation – and this is not fundamentally different from the situation at universities. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] It is significant...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3189	Mr President, that was more than a final point. The speaking time has expired, I have to interrupt you. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Thank you for the interruption!]] [[In the case of the Greens, as well as the BZÖ Members of the European Parliament, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report. Dr. Pilz.]] In response to the question, the Federal Minister for Justice has spoken. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3226	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pilz has said today that I am not very pleased with this special meeting. - That's not true at all. I am even very glad that I can make certain clarifications. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's right, the prosecutor's office has been talking in the last few weeks – I'd even say months. This has made clear its bad, but also its good sides – after all, the change of meaning that the prosecutor's office has had in the last two years. Last year, the biggest criminal process reform was to be implemented. There were 200 changes to the law that had to be implemented. The prosecutor has been given a completely new function. It is now at the heart of the event, from the first suspicion to the indictment or termination of the proceedings. There are really many new challenges for the prosecutor's office. There are new victim rights, new accused rights, a completely new tension relationship in the preliminary proceedings. – And one thing I have to say: The prosecutors in Austria have implemented this great reform really well! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many good benefits must not be in the background by default. Ladies and gentlemen, the High House has given its own recognition to this new function of the Public Prosecutor's Office by declaring the prosecutors to be judicial bodies by means of a constitutional provision. But what happened? Why are the prosecutors exposed to such criticism? – On the one hand, the reform was of course not easy to implement, and on the other hand, the public prosecutor has been fighting for years – just like the whole justice system – with a very thin staff cover. Ladies and gentlemen, support me in ensuring adequate staffing in the judicial system! [[Abg. Kickl: (showing towards ÖVP)]] There is no point in clarifying as many crimes as possible when no working cycle is guaranteed if the files remain because they are no longer to be dealt with. [[Abg. Kickl: But some don't lie down for that!]] I myself take continuous measures to make life easier for the prosecutors in order to free them from bureaucracy, in order to provide more and more the opportunity to make use of modern technologies. [[Abg. Weinzinger: But they don't have money!]] But of course – and now I come to the mistakes that have happened – there have been mistakes – where people work, mistakes happen – and these errors have to be addressed, they have to be analyzed, they have to be eliminated. And most importantly, ladies and gentlemen: We have to learn from the mistakes! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] I myself have caused the preliminary process reform to be evaluated through scientific follow-up research. The result will be there in the beginning/middle of next year. I have used an expert council to see if the existing supervision is capable of improving. However, it is also intended to develop strategies to make the decision of the prosecutors more transparent. Let me say a few words about control. There's a working control. The Federal Ministry of Justice is responsible for supervising the prosecutors. The famous law of the Minister of Justice has been really mystified in recent months. No political abuse is possible, as the law of law is transparent. An instruction must be made in writing, it must appear in the act, it must be reported to Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I certainly answer five parliamentary questions every week in individual criminal matters. But also the People's Procuratorate exercises control. The People's Procuratorate was also presented with the famous "Falter"-acts. She's looking at this now, and that's good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to lose a few words on the Committee of Inquiry. Research committees, ladies and gentlemen, have an important role in this country; that is true. They provide political information – but legal information is provided by the courts, and what must not happen, is that investigations are being affected by pending criminal proceedings. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Yes!]] What must not happen, ladies and gentlemen, is that criminal law makes political change and criminal law is misused for plassive messages! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The subject of this special meeting is the suspicion of the justice of government, the political justice. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: fact!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I reject this accusation of a political justice vehement! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenninger.]] Public prosecutors are not instruments of political parties: neither government parties nor opposition parties! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenninger.]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] One thing is not worthy of a rule of law, nor is the unverified quick cry of the judge without actual knowledge of the facts! [[Abg. Neubauer: Then trust in the committee!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, there have already been enough convictions by government politicians, and not too long ago there has been massive criticism of the imposition of a procedure against an opposition politician. So, now I am ready to answer the questions I have asked, but I would like to suggest: Most of the incidents, most events are long ago and took place before my term of office. I will nevertheless try to answer these questions, and have collected information from my home. [[Intervocations with BZÖ and Greens.]] I begin with the answer – if you are interested in it – of Question No 1, that is the question of the Westenthaler Member, keyword: Call data recovery. In principle, I am not entitled to an assessment of the results of the Committee of Inquiry. However, I am really excited about the results, and I will take a close look at these results – I promise you, ladies and gentlemen – and make a careful review of them. [[Call BZÖ:You only need to get to the committee!]] The Rules of Procedure also provide for a report. I also remain faithful in this area to my principle of not prejudicing and commenting on ongoing procedures. As far as you think that I would have legitimately defended the procedure of the prosecutor's office, I can already refer to the second paragraph of the letter mentioned that I have initiated a service supervision examination. To this end, I will be criticized in the information for tomorrow's press conference of the Association of Austrian Prosecutors for not making the expected defense of the prosecutor. They say here, I defend the prosecutors – and the prosecutors say I don't defend them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] To be honest, since I am criticized by both sides, I believe I have proved to be faithful in this matter to my judicial self-understanding of the equidistance. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Csörgits.]] Now to the core of your question: Information on a communication data means the criminal procedure system, simplified, providing information on traffic, access and location data, i.e. on connection or external call data. As in the literature, however, it is also permitted to obtain an information to find out the participant's number – for example, if, as in the present case, the accused has called a particular person or a witness. Then, on the basis of known data from a communication participant, the defendant's data are collected, namely his telephone number and the time and duration of the contacts. I would not only oppose the entire law of criminal law if, in a situation such as is at the root of the present order, I protested against the admissibility of the prosecution's actions, but also criticised the authorisation of the independent court in excess of the constitutional division of powers. As far as compatibility with immunity is concerned, I refer to my comments made by you in my letter of 10. ==References== Apart from the fact that this situation is also undermined by the judicial examination, I remain that no suspicion against the Westenthaler, based on concrete facts, existed at the time of the order and approval. To treat him as an accused person under these circumstances would have been really illegal. Now to answer question 2 concerning the notification of the understanding of this decision. The legal situation is clear: Upon termination of the information relating to a communication of information, the Public Prosecutor shall immediately forward his order and judicial authorisation to the defendant and those concerned by the implementation of the investigation measures. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This has not happened!]] Of course, those affected are those persons whose communication data has been collected. If you ask me how the immediate delivery has come to be kept, I have to answer you There, where it is being worked, there are also mistakes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with BZÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Everything no problem!]] – Do you never pass wrong? The fact that the public prosecutors were under massive labour pressure in the period in question and the law firms did not have the necessary number of employees, I am entitled to assume that, although this is, of course, only one explanation, but not an excuse. By the way: However, Mr Westenthaler could have taken advantage of the possibility of legal protection, because he was informed orally about the outcome of his consent, i.e. about two weeks after the return of the call data. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, that's wrong!]] He could have objected at any time and indefinitely. [[Abg. Grosz: You say the untruth, Mrs. Minister! That's the next problem!]] The collection of the call data for the period of two hours – it was not a “monitoring”, but a call data collection – was also examined and approved by an independent court. This is always overlooked, ladies and gentlemen: The order of the prosecutor's office was approved by an independent court! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Of course, it stays with: It was a mistake not to give this arrangement to Mr Westenthaler immediately. This issue will therefore be the subject of the annual meeting with the heads of the prosecutors on 1 January. It's December of this year. [[Abg. Grosz: Coffee plush number two!]] In addition, I intend to communicate the results of the investigative committee to all prosecutors with special references to error prevention. Finally, I also expect the report by my group of experts on transparency, which I am ready to implement immediately. The next question, to answer questions 3 to 8 – it is about the legal possibility to perform a call data collection in such a case – is: I do not share your view that the scope of application in VIII. The main feature of the StPO policy is too much. In principle, the principle of legislativeity and proportionality should always be examined, i.e. to assess and justify why less effective measures cannot achieve the same success. Furthermore, in any case, extensive judicial examination is ensured, ex ante by the court in the investigation proceedings and ex post by the Oberlandesgericht, which can then be appealed in the appeal. In addition, there is the possibility of bringing fundamental infringements to the Supreme Court by means of an application for renewal of the procedure. I am also bound by the control of law in the exercise of my law. The assessment of the public prosecutor's evidence and the use of discretionary decisions is only for me when the discretion has been exercised in an unlawful manner. And: In the present case, the independent court has also followed the public prosecutor’s considerations with a view to assessing proportionality. In general, I believe that the effectiveness of criminal prosecution must also be given a certain focus. A restriction of surveillance of the suspect's person would in many cases lead to a standstill in criminal justice, because these measures are aimed at investigating possible suspects first. Especially in the field of the persecution of invading crime by organized gangs, for example, the investigation tool has proved to be an indispensable tool to reveal links within an organized group of perpetrators. Legal protection is always guaranteed in individual cases by the authorisation requirement of the independent court. A provision requiring the delivery of the authorisation prior to the implementation of the measure to the obliged would prevent the success of the measures in many cases. [[Abg. Grosz: Can you answer the questions?- Oh, my God!]] As mentioned above, I would consider the treatment of Mr Westenthaler as an accused person in the event of a given situation to be illegal. - So, don't take it for granted. [[Intervocations with BZÖ and Greens.]] I therefore exclude the fact that immunity rules have been circumvented. I'll rule it out. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call: Read properly]] Now to answer questions 9 to 13 – these are questions of immunity; these are questions of a disciplinary offense of the prosecutor –: [[Abg. Grosz: Where is the question answer from 3 to 8, except for your general explanations?]] For all the reasons I have just mentioned, there is no disciplinary failure by the competent prosecutor. In the procedure referred to, I have not been able to establish any evidence of circumvention of immunity rules. However, I will take this procedure on the occasion of the application of Article 33 of the Federal Constitution and the associated difficulties in the context of the 1st Convention. to discuss the meeting with the heads of the prosecutor's authorities on December. ==References== July 2009 I called into mind the immunity provisions with a separate decree and called for special attention on this issue. So with this decree from this summer, I have already provided clarifications in matters of immunity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Questions 14 and 15: On the basis of the documents submitted to me, there was no evidence that would have indicated a conscious or a deliberate discussion of the ad. – It is about the famous Strasser emails to this forgotten ad. – The criminal proceedings themselves have also shown that the suspicion of the abuse of office has not hardened. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's wrong!]] Third, third-party criminal charges were paid against the prosecutor, so that the investigation of the suspicion by the prosecutors will now be pending. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner:... Westenthaler!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who wrote you this marble?]] In any case, I immediately launched a service inspectorate review, which is still under way by the way. [[Call at the BZÖ:Now we know at least why you don't go to the U committee: because you have no idea]] On questions 16 or 31 to 35: From my point of view, legal amendments to immunity law are not necessarily necessary because the provisions of Articles 33, 57, 58 and 96 B-VG are sufficiently clear and clear. There have been misunderstandings in connection with the material definition of accused persons, which is now new, and the date of the application to the immunity committee, we have made it clear by the well-known decree I have already mentioned, about the consent of law-making bodies to the administrative persecution of Members. Finally, in an amendment to the Public Prosecutor's Law in the course of the Corruption Criminal Change Act, it was introduced by me in its § 8 para. 1 unmistakably ordered that criminal proceedings against members of general representative bodies should at any rate be reported unless a link to political activity is excluded. Already before – by the way – a new § 197 para. 2a StPO makes it clear that, in the cases referred to, the procedure must be terminated and measures for the protection and reception of evidence may be taken only in so far as this is permitted in accordance with the said constitutional provisions. However, the results of the Committee of Inquiry are also to be expected. On questions 17, 25 and 26: The procedure in question concerns two aspects: On the one hand, the suspicion of unlawful access to a computer system and the violation of the telecommunications secret and, on the other hand, the suspicion that there were several occupations in the Federal Ministry of the Interior's department for Internal Affairs in the area of a criminal investigation had to be carried out. This examination has taken place and has produced two results. First: The review of the facts indicated did not prove to be a judicial offence. According to applicable law, posts are not used for so long as a person fulfils the statutory qualifications required, such as training, technical examinations et cetera. Any party-politically motivated occupations of qualified persons, ladies and gentlemen, are subject to political responsibility and not necessarily criminal responsibility. [[Abg. Grosz: “Never happened ”!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Go!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: “No” abuse of office, no! “No” abuse of power!]] Whether this has been done properly in the outcome or not is not a criminal assessment. [[Abg. Grosz: That's why there's the investigation committee where you're supposed to go!]] Criminal offences related to the occupations contained in the advertisement were delayed during 2008. That's right. Here is also the error of the prosecutor, who for a period of two months has overlooked that a report by the Criminal Police was merely on the question of e-mails, but not on the issue of the abuse of office. However, the problem of limitation did not go through, ladies and gentlemen, because there was no abuse of office in terms of content. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] By the way, the limitation could only be assessed on the basis of the results of the survey, because it was not possible to know before when the occupation operations were completed. The need to pay particular attention to the prevention of such misdemeanors will be strongly recalled in the course of the meeting I mentioned. As has been said, in the meantime further criminal charges have been paid in this causa. Whether this results in circumstances that indicate a change in the suspicions will have to be assessed first by the competent prosecutor, and I am seeking to understand that I am not presuming this examination. Now to answer question 18: First of all, I would point out that suggestions from procedural parties to carry out certain investigations are not unusual, which are quite common. According to § 67 para. 6 Z 1 of the Criminal Procedure Code also allows private parties to submit requests for evidence. Against this background, no reference can be drawn to party-politically motivated wishful fulfillment of the Vienna Procuratorate, which was also mentioned in the written entries of Dr. Strasser. By the way, these survey steps are almost necessarily taking place in this context – regardless of whether they had been proposed or not. Moreover, as regards party policy influence: At that time, Mr Berger was still in office at the SPÖ. I can't imagine my colleague Berger having influenced this Causa in some way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. But that's exactly what we want to know in committee! That is why we want to present them to the committee. It's not to be excluded!]] Questions 19 and 20: It's still about the e-mails. . As I said, the procedure was the subject of the occupation procedures mentioned in the e-mails. Specific indications that § 302 was fulfilled did not arise. By the way, I have just answered this question. Questions 21 to 24: If, on account of certain facts of a crime, a Member is specifically suspected of a crime, investigations to clarify the suspicion are only permitted with the consent of the National Council, provided that a lack of a link to political activity is not obvious. [[Abg. Strache: At the Dr. Martin Graf this has been handled differently,... Seibersdorf!]] Even in the absence of any concrete suspicion against Mr Pilz in this matter, I do not see any evidence of circumvention of immunity rules. Let us come back to the questions of e-mails and the question of why I intend to carry out an organisational reform in my ministry. I am very grateful that this question is asked, as I can really make some clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen, legends must be prevented. It is right – and I am proud of it – that opinions and views can always be expressed openly in my department and put to the discussion. I consider this to be an enrichment for the decision-making base of the departmental management. As far as you are now addressing my planned reorganisation, this is about streamlining internal business processes and strengthening the implementation of criminal policy objectives in daily practice. What should be alarming about this, I really can't explain that; I don't understand that. It has been found in the Committee of Inquiry that some legislative concerns have not been implemented in a way that corresponds to the views of the historical legislator. I have never considered the competence of members of the house from the point of view of whom they have been appointed to the office. This also applies to the current head of Section II, which, by the way, is not at all forbidden to apply for the new criminal law section. There has been no personnel decision at all, ladies and gentlemen. I must point out, please, that the presumption of a Party-politically motivated personnel policy must be rejected. People who know me know I don't do that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am simply not for a small party-political war to have individual section heads. And by the way: What I'm doing here in the judicial department – or what we're doing here in the judicial department – is a living administrative reform, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] You can't tell me that a section with 12 employees is efficient! The average section size in Austria is 133 employees. Now on question 36: It's about superintendential supervision by the Chief Prosecutor's Offices. To be honest, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, believe that the senior prosecutors must be given more responsibility. I would also like to see a stronger and more efficient service supervision by the Supreme Prosecutors. However, I can only take a final assessment after the report of the Council of Experts, which also deals with this issue. By the way, this report will be completed in a few weeks. On the question 37: I have actually responded to the allegation of differentiated treatment of politicians in my statement of entry. I know that the subject matter of the Committee of Inquiry is somehow giving rise to such an impression. Please, it just doesn't correspond to reality! On the question 38: Items of the case must be replaced by the investigation document. It was not until the reporting of recent times that the accusation arose. It is not a question of ensuring that this accusation has been examined – carefully, but without prejudice. Prejudices are in no case appropriate, even as far as the prosecutors are concerned. Neither are prosecutors to condemn nor to criticize flat-rate lawyers, nor to defend them on a flat-rate basis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the consequences, to questions 39 to 47: Overall, I can point out that where necessary, I have already suffered the corresponding consequences. I responded very quickly, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to refer to my previous answers. But as far as the defence of the prosecutors is concerned, as I have said, I am being blamed for defending them too much. The prosecutors say I defend them too little. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Believe us!]] As has been said, the influence of the prosecutors must be strongly rejected. All people are equal to the law, for that I stand. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: But some are already the same!]] No one is in a trial to prefer, and many people who know me as a judge and who have been sitting together with me for years in a courtroom, but they know that very well! [[Abg. Street: And some will be disadvantaged!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Like Mr. Elsner! It's also a justice, because if you've run the trial like that!]] The investigative committee has shown several times that the right of guidance has been exercised in its positive sense in order to correct errors. Remember, ladies and gentlemen: When the prosecutor looked over the ad against Minister Strasser, who noticed that? – The Federal Ministry of Justice has noticed this, under the Interim Minister Gio Hahn! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gio! The hope for the future of the Vienna ÖVP!]] Ladies and gentlemen, why should we refrain from this right of guidance? This has repeatedly corrected missing benefits, and there is also the technical supervision. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] What would it have changed in the cases we have discussed today if the Federal Ministry of Justice no longer had the right to order? – It wouldn't have changed anything! The Ministry of Justice could not have given orders to fix errors. Would that be desirable? Or does anyone think that mistakes can be avoided if a federal attorney responsible for the National Council would be placed at the head of the hierarchy of directions? Does it make sense to put in my place a college of the Supreme Procuratorships, which, by the way, has also been accused of? - No! I have come to believe that the law of law is a necessary and indispensable corrective, as long as the Office has responsibility for the public prosecutors, and especially for the National Council. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I am in no way opposed to a more efficient control of the prosecutors. I also expect concrete proposals from the expert council to be made. This also includes the activities of the independent legal protection officer, whose control could be extended to cover, where appropriate, secret surveillance measures. You can discuss that. Let's come to the political groups of the prosecutors who are bothering you so much. The rights of these groups to prosecutors are historically derived from the political offences. These are especially those according to the Prohibition Act. These are the offences reserved for judgment by the jury. I am currently in discussion with the head of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna, because I believe that procedures against politicians in general should be dealt with according to the relevant subject area. There are different opinions on this, but you may also be able to disband this political group. That would simply be a technical argument. By the way, the group's area of responsibility has undergone a decisive change in that the persecution of official offences – and it is mostly about the official offences – now lies with the corruption prosecutor's office. This will be overlooked again and again. On the question of whether I want to prevent party political influence in the future: Ladies and gentlemen, under my time, there has never been a party political influence – and that will not continue to exist! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I will continue to pursue this opinion, which is consistent, transparent and available with all the means required! – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3987	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4014	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister, you have said that you are pleased that you are here today. – I can guarantee you: After this lecture will be held You will be even more happy if you come to the Examining Committee, because this lecture raises more questions than it gives answers. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I have a very specific question to ask you: I would like to know which officials wrote these answers, because I would also like to invite them to the committee of inquiry. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Kickl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember how this investigation committee came to be in July of this year! I can still remember how the EIA ran through Parliament at the time and did everything to set up a committee of inquiry within one day. At that time, the ÖVP still believed that an opposition investigation committee would: The issue of immunity of Westenthal has preceded a party-internal dispute. One has believed that one can look a little into the soul life of the BZÖ. As far as the so-called affair of oillings is concerned, it has been believed that there is something to be said to my colleague, Ollinger. And with the alleged requests made on behalf of the Kazakhstani intelligence service, it was believed that the FPÖ could be cut into the pan in any form. Now, after a good six months of investigation committee, the ÖVP notes that this calculation has not gone up: The BZÖ disputes are not an extraordinary thing, nothing you wouldn't suspect anyway. As far as Mr Oellinger is concerned, nothing has come of it at all. We will first examine the alleged requests made on behalf of the Kazakhstani intelligence service, but there is also evidence that the traces are heading in a different direction. But what came out is that there are abuses – on the one hand, that the prosecution is slammed, and on the other hand, that there are obviously politicians who are treated differently. In the case of members of the opposition, there is a sharp determination that immunity is suddenly not taken so precisely – in the case of members of government and former ministers, the velvet gloves are put on. And now that this calculation of the EIA has not gone up and that we want to bring the political responsible to the committee of inquiry, now suddenly the control of the EIA has been blown away like a blow. Now it's suddenly saying: No, we don't need it, we don't want it, we don't need it! – That is why there is this special meeting, because this condition is simply unsustainable. Mrs. Federal Minister, explain to us why you do not come to the Investigation Committee! Yes, you are not loaded, but I would be interested in in principle whether They would be willing to come to the investigation committee. Would you do that? – This is not a legal question, I am interested in whether the Federal Minister is in principle willing to do so. [[Abg. Amon: This is a legal question!]] For a very simple reason, I'm interested, because: As soon as you say, Mrs Minister, you want to come to the Examining Committee, the refusal of the ÖVP and SPÖ will no longer be explainable. Mrs Federal Minister, do not let your line be given by party secretariats who have something else in mind! Don't forget, you're independent! The background is quite different: The Minister of Justice is not allowed to come, because if the Minister of Justice comes, then it would no longer be possible to explain why other former members of the government no longer come – above all the former Minister of the Interior of Strasser, the master of the black Poster; he is now sitting in the European Parliament. Straster is hidden and covered, he should not appear in front of the committee of inquiry, and therefore the Minister of Justice must not come to this committee. Mr Strasser must not come because then an essential chapter of the ÖVP, namely the black post chess player, would fall public attention, because then Strasser would finally have to speak and answer these incidents, and then finally the politically motivated transformations of Strasser would be carefully examined. And that is also the point that the Committee of Inquiry has examined very closely, namely in the course of the proceedings against Strasser. The one question is why an ad was left behind. I'll be there later. But essential is how it has been determined. The accusation was – I remember –: Post chess at the Ministry of Interior, black party gangs were able to order local police by e-mail by color. How'd the BIA go? – The BIA said: Okay, let's look into the personal records! They had the personal records come and said: Let's see if the letters of intervention are in there! Well, ladies and gentlemen, only the stupidest post-posters put the letters of intervention in the personal records! So I'm "impressed" by the BIA's investigations. Now you could have used another way, but there's no message from Straster, there's no consent from any e-mail writer. That's it. And now comes the next point: You're saying the whole thing's been held back anyway. – To this end, we need to know – and this has also been clearly said in the Investigation Committee by the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office – that: The investigations were sloppy. They say this is delayed – but it's being delayed because sloppy has been determined. You can't forget that. You do not seriously believe that you can feed us off with such a simple statement here in Parliament. First, it's sloppy, then it's too late, and when it's delayed, it's said, it doesn't matter that sloppy has been determined, because it's being delayed. – These things are discussed in the Committee of Inquiry! [[Abg. Amon: Quote from the results of the prosecution! Just quote from the documents!]] Mr Amon, take note of the reality! The refusal of a reality of the ÖVP in this matter is without any doubt intolerable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Causa Strasser is not an individual case, my Ladies and gentlemen, there are other members of the government who are also protected. The former Minister of the Interior Platter has been a criminal offence as an accused person for two years and has still not been agreed. So that's what only anyone accused in Austria can wish for. The next one is the former Minister of Finance Grasser. So far, all procedures have passed in the sand. I remember that during a procedure he was taken very hard. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Karl-Heinz Grasser, we don't invite you, but please take a written position! – Again, every accused person in Austria would like to ask himself this: no annoying questions by the prosecutor and a lawyer who formulates every word. Then it fits well in the picture, Mrs. Justice Minister, that you meet with Karl-Heinz Grasser's lawyer. [[Abg. Kickl: Ungustious is that!]] I do not know who the initiative has taken, that we will clarify this with a parliamentary question, but that completes exactly the picture we have received in the committee of inquiry. And this is also an image that the public now has, namely that some get a special treatment. That is also what is unsustainable, and this look is also a poison for the rule of law and for confidence in justice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ms. Justice Minister, you counted the word “error” twelve times in your lecture. That alone, I believe, is a reason why we should work together to address these mistakes in the committee of inquiry. They also say that many mistakes result from the fact that the prosecutor's office is ill-occupied. - I'll give you that. But I also tell you who bears the responsibility: You and the Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the BZÖ.]] It's not that simple if you tell us today that the prosecutor's office is the victim of this personnel equipment. Mr. Justice Minister, you have also said that we need to learn from the mistakes. . I tell you that learning from mistakes means coming to the Investigation Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4115	Next speaker is Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4147	Yes, Mr President, in a sense this is really the new parliamentaryism. I do not see why a special meeting or a urgent request is included, I think 47 questions are being devalued in this way, why you say that is nothing! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Examining Committee devalues you, not the special meeting!]] We come together here extra, make a special meeting, 47 very interesting questions will be asked to Mrs. Minister, and these 47 questions have now answered her. [[Abg. Grosz: But no answers! That's the problem!]] I understand this by parliamentary activity. It cannot afford to tell the truth as it cannot afford to be told the truth in the Committee of Inquiry. This has political reasons for telling the truth here, but that also has legal reasons for telling the truth, when you stand here, how to say it in the committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Strache: But there you are immune and can say the untruth! That's the problem!]] That's why I don't understand why this is going down this way. And if there are several special meetings, there is no problem either, then we can discuss this very thoroughly in several sessions. That's a living Parliament, I'll call myself. In this way, we can also ensure that it is shared by the public – and there are many things to be criticized. To be honest, I also have many criticisms, and whether this is the case or whether it is a systemic problem, it will be clarified in the reports. We will then have to discuss these here in the House, just as we also need to discuss the extension of parliamentary control to the area of justice – certainly! But I would like to know whether these are individual cases or not. There is a 150-page ad against Minister Strasser, and the prosecutor says he has overlooked or forgotten them. Apart from how to overlook 150 pages? This alone is an art piece. There I have to say, this is a bit strange matter. I mean, this is a critical point that has rightly come to the public. It's similar with the Causa Grasser, but to that I still come separately. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] – We can talk afterwards, I only have a few minutes, and I want to use it! The second point is: This should be really positive, because there is now a bit of a tendency in the media to consider the committee of inquiry in itself a little more critical, whereby I must say that the opposition, in the case of the united opposition, is not entirely uninvolved. It should consider how it leads the discussions here, and it should consider doing so in such a way that Parliament and the Committee of Inquiry are strengthened, just as we have to think about it, and I say so. But that's important, all five parties should do that. All five parties also adopted the decision for this Committee of Inquiry. You know, we are also defenders of the fact that we are working on a good, constructive, sustainable model of the Committee of Inquiry as minority law. If we really want to implement this, we must ensure that the previous work of the committee of inquiry also meets acceptance in the population and in the media. You know all the comments that everybody ends up with: The opposition itself does not prove a good service, as Mr. Peoples wrote in the “standard. ” – The impression really exists in part. And so the institution and Parliament do not have a good service. That's why I'm saying you really have to think about it. I am surprised that the positive points that have arisen from the previous work of the Committee of Inquiry – and everyone has worked with great effort without exception; one should really acknowledge this, all of them! – have appeared, not highlighted. Which points are these? First of all, this is the question of the demarcation of accused/pigs. The colleague, Mr Westenthal, could almost contribute to this by himself; the Minister also said something about it. This demarcation between accused witnesses and witnesses in criminal proceedings is unclear, and this should be clarified more clearly. – This is a point – positive, a result of the work of the Committee of Inquiry. Second point: the question of the call data recovery, so that you can so to speak, who telephoned with whom for as long as possible. This is not indifferent, it is also crucial for the citizens, because no one can want it. Not only the colleague Westenthaler can not do that, but no one can want it! This point is also related to the question of witness/accusing and immunity – one bypasses immunity and gives the mandate a status to include it in the call data recovery. And it has become apparent that we also need to rethink about immunity, on the issue of the effectiveness of immunity, in which area we are improving it and in which areas we may have to limit it. Third point: Rapid procedures for the application for the withdrawal of immunity. This procedure must go faster. If an application is made for someone to be extradited, the procedure must not take so long until the person in the public is so pre-condemned that the extradition decided on in the immunity committee is already a condemnation! Because, honestly, that's a misconception. [[Abg. Amon: Or evidence disappear! That's also possible!]] – This too, Mr Amon! – So this is also a point, a positive outcome of the work of this Committee of Inquiry. Fourth point: Evaluation of the reform of the criminal code. This has also been addressed by the Minister. It is about looking at how this great StPO reform is implemented – whether that was done at all, what was decided there. I'm a great skeptic, I have to say honestly. After an evaluation, you have to consider: What consequences do you draw, where do you make any changes? Now I come to the last point: BUWOG/Causa Grasser. I would like to say the following, apart from the fact that these are very strange people, Mr Hochegger or Mr Meischberger, who say in public: Jössas na, there are a few million euros in the area, I have forgotten that completely, I still have to report this to the financial sector and tax it! And then to sit with those in a company, get out of that company and say, actually I don't know the two right at all, because I've only happened to be assigned to the association authority of this company, so it can't be! So please, there are some points to be clarified, and rightly, I have to say, Grasser, the former Minister of Finance, is being led here as an accuser. At least the following points will probably look at the prosecution: Abuse of office, vigilance, acceptance of advantage, bribery, advantage, forbidden intervention, breach of official secrecy, unfaithfulness, gift acceptance by rulers, fraud, breach of business or business secrets, exploration of business or business secrets – and, of course, tax evasion. That's a good list, I have to say, that's to be listed there and where the prosecutor's office and finance have to look at it all now. That is why, I think, we have to look at how this procedure is going. There is no point in running a committee of inquiry parallel to that, because everyone we are calling is making the statement on the grounds that there is a ongoing procedure. So that doesn't make any sense. But these listed points of grass are serious, and we will see how far justice will take the appropriate steps to do so. I fully rely on justice, but also on all of us here in Parliament, that we put the necessary pressure here to do the necessary monitoring work in the wake of this: in the service of Austrians, taxpayers and parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4250	Mr Amon has now come to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4271	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to remind you that it was all the parties in this House who have jointly set up this committee of inquiry and who have also taken the appropriate evidence together. I would like to point this out. We agreed in the days before the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry on the items that belong to the investigation, and I do not agree that he seriously meant this at the time, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However – and this has to be said in all clarity – it is in particular two political groups, namely the BZÖ and the Greens, who are trying to break down the important instruments of the parliamentary committee of inquiry by means of a permanent political show! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Their way of doing so, namely constantly pretending things that require an investigation, without actually finding themselves in the evidence decision, actually causing serious damage to the important instrument of investigation committee, the sharpest parliamentary weapon. This is your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have experienced this again today when the Lord Pilz goes out here and talks cheerfully about the so-called Strasser e-mails. – Mr Dr. Pilz, let us talk about it: How to Come You even own private e-mails from a Federal Minister? [[Inter-calls for Greens and BZÖ.]] How do you get the possession of these e-mails, Mr. Pilz? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Where's the traitor?, that's your problem!]] The fact that the Greens are excited, I understand, is that they are exactly the party that usually keeps data protection particularly high and is always particularly critical when it comes to collecting some data. It is even inappropriate to include the social security number in a standard paper, even though the Greens have already occurred. And then they have a representative in their ranks who is serving a data researcher in Upper Austria to investigate against another party of this House. The fact that the “at random” is a criminal officer was not known to Mr. Ollinger. We asked him that he was not aware of it, although the person concerned himself in the committee said that, of course, he assumed that this must be known to Mr Ollinger. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Oellinger, we are not far away from the instigation for the abuse of office. I would like to tell you this clearly. [[Abg. Oils: You need to be careful!]] But I don't want to push around this streetr story. Of course, it is to be criticised if there is an ad here and this ad has not been followed accordingly. The Minister for Justice has said that very clearly. But I would like to mention one more point in the Committee of Inquiry's Minutes. This is a secret document; although I do not know why this document has been classified as ‘secret’, I can quote it from the Minutes by its citation in the Committee. It is interesting that, after reviewing the Strasser case and these e-mails, where there was a constant accusation of abuse of office, the prosecutor says: ‘In accordance with the Appellate Authority’s view, no evidence of abuse of powers within the meaning of § 302 of the STGB is available on the basis of the withdrawn staff records, especially since the professional suitability of the applicants for the decision was apparently significant...’ You should finally take note of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They further criticise the competent prosecutor because he has overlooked these documents. To this end, I would like to quote: "However, since no evidence of criminal conduct exists, regardless of any limitation, the procedure of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna cannot be disputed in the outcome." Take I would like to ask you to take this opportunity to make a final point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to point out that it was not a basic decision of the government parties to load no ministers, but we also agreed that we would ask Federal Ministers to come to the Investigation Committee if it makes sense when it is necessary. The cases we are investigating here in connection with the Public Prosecutor's Office do not fall within the current term of office of the Minister of Justice. There was also no point in her predecessor, ladies and gentlemen – I emphasize: not a single one! – on a point of order, i.e. an intervention by the respective Federal Minister. If that were the case, I would immediately ask the Minister to join the committee. But if there is not even a point of reference, ladies and gentlemen, then it is transparent, then it is a political show of the opposition – and for that we do not give ourselves! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to express my surprise at the fact that Dr. Pilz suddenly spoke of the united opposition, i.e. both of the liberals and of the BZÖ, here apparently was chosen to speak for the opposition. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] I have so far believed that the FPÖ is taking security issues seriously. However, I must now very much question this, if you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, agree that Dr Pilz decides on a permanent basis and speaks for the united opposition. That's really remarkable! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: I point this out to the sharpest!]] It was a bit sadly presented here that some of the members of the prosecutors are treated differently from the others. I now understand that, but please, don't be angry, I have the immunities since the XXI. Looking at the legislative period and finding it interesting that there have been 56 cases of immunity since then, but do you know who is the leader? Three times you can guess! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler has that Hand.]] There's one thing that shows up. It's almost like school. – Mr Ing. Westenthaler is with 15 immunity cases. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And the second, which appears to be in conflict with the courts in the second most frequent, is Mr. Dr. Pillow. [[Prolonged calls to the Greens.]] The fact that these two gentlemen feel different from all those who have no problems is quite understandable to me, ladies and gentlemen. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] We take the information in the investigation committee very, very seriously. In his statement, Dr. Cap has already mentioned a number of points that are important to us, because we believe that at the end of the investigation committee, this outcome will be timely. [[Abg. Oils: You are a hypocrite and a slanderer!]] I would like to express my express thanks to Mr Pendl for being also one of those who, as well as in many parts of the Group leaders and President Graf, are trying to get real information from the Committee. [[Demonstratetive applause with SPÖ]] In fact, we want to look at the new criminal code in detail. There are problems in demarcation between defendants and witnesses, Mrs Minister of Justice. We want to implement the hasty procedure for the extradition of Members, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not only a question of whether a media debate is taking place for weeks, but also of whether, if someone has one and a half months or two, he cannot allow important evidence to disappear. It is also a matter of this. In order to secure evidence, it makes sense to impose an hasty procedure on the extradition of Members to justice. The requirement of proportionality, the Ultima Ratio – of course, it must be helped to break through. It may not be that before someone else has been consulted or asked whether he is at all willing to provide data, it is already a relatively massive intervention in privacy that one takes a call data recovery. I would also like to say this clearly here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4479	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4528	Mr Graf has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4549	Madam President. Dear women Federal ministers Fekter and Bandion-Ortner! I would like to say to Mr Amon: Not the number of procedures is crucial if someone can perhaps be put on as a criminal, but the one – exactly in this point it is! [[Abg. Amon: I didn't say either!]] Perhaps we have a public prosecutor who, in obvious cases, simply does not dare to terminate proceedings – and that is exactly what we are investigating in these areas! [[Consistency with FPÖ and BZÖ as well as with the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] For example, from the protection of parliamentary immunity, one can make a political instrument that is also increasingly used by the public prosecutors as a political weapon against the opposition – and that is exactly what we are investigating in this context and much more! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] [[Abg. Bucher: That's right!]] I am not saying anything to the “responsive court council” of the Republic, Mr Cap, because it has already become the Magistrate with 70 000 preferential votes of the revolutionary “spiritual” of social democracy, I must say, if I remember what he is saying here. [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] Mr Bandion-Ortner said, among other things, that: I can't imagine that! or: These are miscarriage of individuals!, don't really calm me in terms of how things are going to continue in our country. We have scandals about scandals and corruption about corruption that swung up. Examples: ÖBB engulf millions of,BUWOG sales process, municipal credit, Skylink. [[Abg. Bucher: Hundreds of millions!]] You can almost continue this list into the immeasurable. It has already broken out almost a corruption pandemic in Austria. [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The taxpayer has a right in this country to ensure that the authorities and the institutions to which control tasks are carried out function, that these tasks are also carried out by them. Of course, this includes the Ministry of the Interior and the authorities. Of course, this includes the prosecutor's office and the courts. And, of course, this also includes the parliamentary committee of inquiry – and that is why this can be seen in a wider light overall! As Members of Parliament, we decide for ourselves how to deal with this instrument – and not the government! If I hear from the President-in-Office, we have to fight for greater independence from Parliament, I have to say: Yes, I am right, Madam President. But then we fight for it too! Don't let the government force us to get on our knees! We ourselves must start living our instruments. [[In the case of the FPÖ, the members of the BZÖ and the Agg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] One example of this is how we deal with committee of inquiry in the future. In this respect, the analysis is correct. But please do not always point to the opposition, because that is the minority. The majority still decide in this House – and that is what you and you are still in! [[towards SPÖ]] [[towards ÖVP]] [[Abg. Grosz: Right now!]] 29 percent – “great” performance of social democracy, you have to say! A committee of inquiry contributes significantly to democratic hygiene in that country. It is an essential instrument in this respect. Minister for Justice, you know the subject of General Prevention, and I ask you: If an instrument is used as a sluggish instrument if one does not even give a minister a hearing right in a committee, why should confidence increase in the future? We're failing there! I just need to figure out more how to deal with research committees in the future. Now I say it again: Whoever blocks parliamentary control or political control in the fight against corruption here in the high house, makes corruption in our country also the robbers. This is the point on which we are dealing in future cases! [[It was in favour of FPÖ and BZÖ as well as representatives of the Greens.]] That is why we have to deal with this instrument carefully. – It’s not just an individual case! [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I am now distinguishing: The Ministry of Justice is always working – unfortunately God's very often questioned by the political left! I do not wish to be a non-disputed public prosecutor, especially in the light of the results of the Committee of Inquiry. The authorities responsible for the ministry have worked very well if they have been given the opportunity to do so. But if, through the reforms of the Federal Minister of the Interior, the Federal Minister of the Interior has obtained the autonomy of the Rules of Procedure and the autonomy of personnel to which every act must be submitted, when it comes to persecuting or treating cases of political mandates in the political section, then he goes on to say: Well, we have too few staff, there are young and inexperienced prosecutors among them, and there have just been mistakes!, then I have to say: Who has prevented him from perceiving his possibilities? For example, who prevented him from putting experienced people there? This is in his competence – and that's where the Supreme Procuratorate failed! And who has prevented him from observing the files presented to him according to his possibilities? There, too, they failed. If you have a press officer in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office who is permanently misinformed to the public when it comes to political mandates or various prominent people, by simply concealing things or cynically claiming false things, I have to say: From an institution of law enforcement, even if he is press spokesman and senior prosecutor – and you have said that the prosecutors are in the Constitution and are institutions of legal care – I expect him to be truthfully informed to the public. But that didn't happen! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Then the question arises: What does the Federal Minister do about it? Today, the new “parliamentaryism” was redefined by the Clubobmann Cap. He grants us the rights we have. After hurra! Does he want to take these? [[Abg. Neubauer: Thank you!]] Thank you, Mr. Cap! Thank you, this is really “toll! ” [[Abg. May. Gaßner: But please!]] If the Ministry of Justice then examines files and the report is on the table for you, Mrs Federal Minister, in a special case, which is also a subject of investigation, where the Ministry of Justice recommends and says - I quote - that: “I therefore believe that we must not be embarrassed that the public prosecutors have, in effect, not recognized the fact that they are a Member of Parliament. We should not, in any case, defend the actions of the prosecutor's office. I would therefore be in favour of playing with open cards and expressing clearly that the actions of the prosecutor's office have not complied with the state of affairs and the legal situation", you have to do something. But you didn't do much. – This is just one of many examples that have been promoted in the Committee of Inquiry. In reality, we have a crisis of government which is being broken down today – including by the government, by the majority of governments – to a parliamentary crisis. You're trying to turn that in this direction. We do not have a parliamentary crisis, we can quite trust ourselves more independence and we can resist here if the government or the majority of governments believe that we must be hostages here. In reality, we have a government that has “happy” with laws of far-reaching importance, where no review has taken place, whether in criminal proceedings or in the budget-accompanied law. This is not a new “parliamentaryism” – this is in the final result the elimination of Parliament in essential parts of the law-making! That's what we need to recognize! The University Law Novelle was also decided here at the Hohenhaus in July, without review. At that time, we have already predicted all the conditions that are now being criticized. But you just poured out the child with the bath for a lot of things because of the party's political interest. And this also with the help of the Greens, where your representative has said in future study directions that we have thought about: There are restrictions on access before we allow this study! [[Deputies Dr. Pilz and Dr. Zinggl shake their heads.]] Don't discuss that now! If today the union shows solidarity with the protesting students, I ask you: Were you, the representatives of the union, not a sense of budget finding when the universities were equipped with much too close resources? Where were the trade unionists sitting here in the high house? Oberhauser, Katzian, Csörgits, Haberzettl, Muchitsch, Spindelegger, Riepl, Neugebauer: You all agreed to the budget! But now you show yourself in solidarity with the students who demonstrate against the conditions that you have brought together with the government. [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That is what the citizens see, they see how Parliamentaryism is dealt with, the people notice this, because it is not for the benefit of the citizens! The government is increasingly creating a control-free zone – for at least three years, even for a long time – not only here in the House, but also in the authorities and so on. And it's not good not to want to investigate systems. And if you do not comply with the request that the relevant political leaders should come to the committee, then you will give the Parliamentary Examining Committee's instrument a new meaning for all futures, namely that it is no longer worth anything.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4775	Now comes Mr Mag. Stadler. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4796	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! Your answer was well read – I don't know who wrote it, I have the suspicion, in your favor that you didn't do it yourself. In any case, she was spit with inaccuracies and half-truths. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] For example, you could not allow yourself to do this in the Committee of Inquiry, because there you are first subject to legal obligation of truth – please address Mr Klubobmann Cap! – with criminal sanctions, unlike here, and second, we would confront you there with the original documents. Now I want to show the audience what was false, for example. Untruth is that one has overlooked such a convolut in the act. [[Keeping one piece of paper in height]] [[Call the BZÖ: Awesome!]] That means: It has not been any subordinate “acterl”, Papel, just as Mrs. Minister just meant by saying: Where work is being done, mistakes happen there!, but that was the most essential and thickest part of this act. And these are the Strasser e-mails. Ladies and gentlemen! These Strasser e-mails have been overlooked by the prosecutor – but not only by the attorney, but also by Mr. Oberstaatsanwalt and also by the BIA! They missed it three times. And then it says: Where it works, mistakes happen! Is this another mistake? Is there such a probability, Mrs. Federal Minister? Can you explain this probability to us? Three institutions, highly paid top officials, ignore this convolut, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Keeping the same in height]] – The citizen should be able to take a picture outside of the fact that this has been overlooked and forgotten in the act, ladies and gentlemen! [[keeping the said convolut in height]] [[It was in favour of BZÖ as well as of representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] Now I would like to quote something that is already contained in the Committee's protocol, so I can also quote it publicly. I quote an example of Mr Strasser's so-called objective positioning. [[Abg. Amon: Are you quoting from the committee protocol? That's not the committee protocol!]] – I quote from the document, which I held in committee. [[Abg. Amon: You can't do that! That's not the protocol!]] – I quote from the document, I said that. You can have it, colleague Amon! [[Abg. Amon: This is a break of confidentiality!]] I quote from the document, not from the committee protocol, so you can get upset right away. I presented it to the Committee, so I can also present it here. It's in an e-mail from Minister Strasser – I quote: A gendarm named H. – I do not now call the full name – from the Gendarmeriepost Grieskirchen – private phone number anyway – an old friend of my father, intervened because of his cousin or so, H. that he gets a position at the Gendarmerieposten in Lambbach. You said you knew about the matter – he then wrote to Mr Kloibmüller – please info. Seriously. - Quote. Mr Kloibmüller then wrote back the following: The post-commandant of Lambach retired, so that this post has to be tendered out. - Painful, yes! – The commander's deputy was Rudi H. Our head of staff in the district of Lambach is of course our wish for him to come to the train. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, what else does this have to do with objective posts? [[Abg. Grosz: post chess is this!]] Mrs Bundesminister, these are the things that we will be holding out to you on the committee! That's what it's all about! Here, Mr Cap, you can issue political statements without criminal sanctions. Only here can the majority decide whether we like it or not. But in the Committee, with the documents we have, all this is no longer going through. This reading is no longer possible, ladies and gentlemen. And that's why we say: Ministers must go to committee! I would like to quote twenty or thirty examples of the state of play on the basis of the answer to the question, where I say to you: In the Committee, the documents speak a different language. This answer would not be possible under the terms of the documents. Let me show you, ladies and gentlemen on the television screens, the following: This is a list of the three U-committees Eurofighter Investigation Committees, the Banking Investigation Committee and the Investigation Committee on the Management of the BMI. [[The speaker holds up papers]] The Eurofighter Investigation Committee has invited eleven ministers or ex-ministers, seven ministers or ex-ministers in the Banking Investigation Committee, three ministers or ex-ministers in the BMI Investigation Committee. That's a total of 21 ministers. [[Abg. Hornek: How often was Minister Strasser in committee?]] – Ah, Mr. Schüssel has come back from Tibet, he is back again – enlightened as I hope! Ladies and gentlemen! All of a sudden, no more ministers are allowed to come to the Examining Committee. Why? - I think that's what anyone said. The calculation of the Austrian People's Party: This will be a committee, and we can break the opposition! Now it turns out that this committee is promoting: Abuse of power, abuse of power, abuse of power by the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, and nothing else, in series! [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Mr Kloibmüller is at the centre of this abuse of power. From today, ladies and gentlemen, watching TV screens, you should know: Thanks to the abuse of power of the Austrian People's Party, there are two categories of witnesses in the investigation committee and the Austrian parliamentarianism: the normal witness – that's the official, that's the normal citizen – who has to come, but if you were or were Minister of the Austrian People's Party, then you can't come, ladies and gentlemen, then you belong to the new aristocracy of the black, the black abuse of power. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's got to keep up, yes!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] That's the difference it's all about! [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House, also you from the Social Democrats! If you want to know something about these things – Grasser has already mentioned, Mr. Cap – then you can't come to the committee of inquiry, because there the minister doesn't come; then you have to go to the "Theatercafe": That's where you meet the minister! Meet me there. At the same time, you are also the lawyer of Mr. Grasser, a prosecutor dealing with the Causa, where you meet the entire environment! Only: There's no parliamentary control there, that's the hook on the thing. That's why, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, and that's why I'm looking for you now: If you want to get rid of the image of the side car party of the black abuse of power, then you must bring your coalition partner to account for this black abuse of power also before the investigation committee! It's just about responsibility and nothing else! [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] You have experienced this black abuse of power yourself two years ago when we found out how then Minister of Finance Grasser opened your party accounts about his officials, about financial market supervision – illegally, as it turned out. Cover today You're this black abuse of power? - Not me! Ideology back or forth, but whoever breaks the Constitution for party political purposes in this country has taken place before the Committee of Inquiry, ladies and gentlemen, the House of Lords. Mrs. Federal Minister, it is not a question of learning from mistakes – that is what we expect of you anyway, that must be done by everyone who is a reasonable person and who has some of his brain together, that is a human virtue that has been evolutionary; it is not about it – but, ladies and gentlemen, it is about discovering the abuse of power and taking action against the abuse of power, and that has nothing to do with mistakes. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] Abuse of power is not a consequence of a mistake, but a consequence of the attitude – the attitude: We can do everything in the country, the attitude: We have the apparatus, the setting: We have changed colors and therefore the officials must be grateful to us, and they must now also prepare for them. – This is the system behind it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Hornek: And what does this have to do with the subject matter of investigation? What does that have to do with the subject matter of investigation?]] That is why I am very grateful to Mr Amon for leaving here. The voters have seen one thing today: Mr Amon had not talked for two minutes, as he was concerned with the main attraction – he was really like a witness! He comes out here and doesn't say: I would like to know whether Mr Strasser has actually committed or not, I would like to know exactly what he is doing. - No! – his main concern is: Where does Peter Pilz have the e-mails?, ladies and gentlemen. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hornek.]] Where's the unmistakable place? – That’s the main concern of the Austrian People’s Party, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise you don’t care anything! You want to close the device, you do it for the x-th time. I have experienced this again and again at Ernst Strasser: for the x-th time! You have also said today – hypocritically, as I accuse you – that Peter Westenthaler and Peter Pilz have the most extraditional desires. [[Abg. Hornek: Forced... the Greens!]] You know why? – Because exactly the power apparatus of your private stasi BIA has gone against Peter Westenthaler and because Peter Pilz was the main target of the ads of Strasser, Grasser and Kukacka. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Abuse of power of the Austrian People's Party – and then one turns out here and says: For God's sake, look at what criminals are! Now they have so many extradition desires! – Ladies and gentlemen, this is deplorable what you are doing! [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You misuse the power, so the voters must be warned of you! And that's why you have to go to the investigation committee, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Amon: scandalous!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] To Mr Kloibmüller: We can prove that your Mr. Kloibmüller, a black party secretary, is giving investigation orders directly to the police. – This has turned out to be evidenced by the documents. [[Abg. Amon: Nothing can prove you!]] With this we want to confront you, Mrs Fekter, and you can't swim around as much as Mrs. Bandion-Ortner did today. [[Abg. Hornek: If you're talking about Stasi methods here, excuse yourself, Mr. Stadler!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] - I'm not moderate at all! Your abuse of power would require a much harder occurrence! Your abuse of power will mean that we do not like this: We will be making special meetings until the ministers have to admit their abuse of power before this committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen, the House of Lords. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Amon: That is scandalous what you...!]] When you were unable to catch Peter Westenthaler, you did not even frighten back from taking action against four employees of his parliamentary club. I would have liked to hear your mind if you were from the socialist side under the Minister for the Interior Caspar An employee of the Austrian People's Party would have acted in this way: I'd like to paint the hustle and bustle, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] When you noticed that the immunity of Peter Westenthaler is opposed to persecution, you tried to go the detour and jump over the lowest fence to criminalise employees. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] You should be ashamed of such conditions, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5211	Mr Mag. Stadler, for the expressions “hypocritical” and “lowness” I give you a call for order. Mr Klubobmann's head spoke on business treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5261	Madam President. High house! Mr Stadler has now been very evocative and has tried to compensate for or replace missing arguments with volume. But for one thing, Madam President, I must urgently ask you: You have now given him an order for two concrete statements, but even worse seems to me that Mr Stadler accuses the BIA Stasi method and compares it with the Stasi. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a political appreciation!]] I urge you to avoid this just as much with a call for order. This accusation to the BIA is immense!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5318	Mr. Klubobmann! It is all about the request for moderation in the choice of words, even on a delicate subject. [[Abg. Amon: No, it's not about everyone, it's about Mr. Stadler!]] A call for order has been issued, and many expressions have been made, where I may ask to consider exactly what is being said in the future. Now, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Fekter, has spoken. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5374	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Stadler, if you are still so evocative and loud about it, it will not be more true: There is no abuse of power in the files! There could be no evidence that Mr Amon has also clearly explained this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of ÖVP) I also say it about the speaker's seat: your Stasi methods we will turn off!]] [[Abg. That's why we want to...!]] If you were to stick to the truth, you would also have had to quote from the minutes that the prosecutor has found no reference to abuse of power in the post-occupying service, even in accordance with the investigative authority. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Please come to the investigative committee before you swadder here!]] All the posts examined were made on the basis of the appropriate qualification of the applicants and, therefore, this procedure was terminated. Don't talk about abuse of power where no one has happened! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: You yourself are the living abuse of office!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are the incarnate abuse of office!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In February 2004, we decided on the rules of criminal proceedings here in the House, and with 1. She entered into force in January 2008 and brought a new cooperation between justice and police. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of ÖVP) let go of your peak against the opposition, you can!]] Today, about two years later, we know where this new system works well, but we also know that we still need to intensify communication between prosecutors and investigation agencies. I therefore welcome the motion for a resolution, which provides for an evaluation of the new criminal process reform and that we look at where we need improvement. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] But one thing is clear: Not I, but the rule of law demands that criminals be persecuted. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Fekter is the patron saint of the burglars! Patron of Office Abuse!]] Those who are guilty must be punished, and for this reason, for justice and police, we are working hand in hand for security in our country. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] The Justice is the master of the procedure, the files are treated under the leadership of the Justice, and the Justice, the Prosecutor's Office gives the investigation orders to the police. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Come to the committee!]] An example of this cooperation is DNA analysis and advice: These contracts fall within the area of security as well as the area of responsibility of the judicial authorities. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is little known that Austria has the fifth largest DNA database in the world and that we already have 12,000 DNA analyses of offenders and 10,000 DNA trace analyses. In Vienna alone, 4 287 criminal DNA profiles were created in 2008 and 3 490 DNA trace analyses were commissioned. [[Abg. May. Kogler: (besides the greens' bank series) This has nothing to do with the request at all! That's enough!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies, my dear! Listen to you so you can see how to work together...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5569	Mrs. Federal Minister! Deputy Pilz! – Mr Kogler! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Abuse of Parliament!]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] First: Intervening calls, this agreement applies to today, are not tolerated if they are not made from the place. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There are no more agreements!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] – No, you don’t stand and you’re not in your place. Point number two: The Federal Minister has the right to speak by way of Rules of Procedure – 10 minutes, exactly. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But to the subject!]] [[Further calls to BZÖ and Greens.]] That is why the Federal Minister is speaking; of course on the subject, on the urgent question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5661	I've been a parliamentarian for a long time to know you're talking about the subject. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] But listen, then you will see how the cooperation between the Justice and the Ministry of the Interior takes place, because this cooperation has been the subject of the urgent question. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... Investigation Committee! You don't trust yourself!]] In this cooperation, we not only cooperate intensively with the evidence, but also with the investigation and investigation. They all know recent cases of justice, in which the close cooperation between prosecutors and criminal police became clear. The lead by the prosecutor is complemented by a group of the criminal police with – depending on – economic police, criminalist or data security expertise. Almost daily, there are joint deliberations with the prosecutor, a common understanding of the main actors, joint evaluations of the documents and also in the main proceedings the support of the prosecutor by the recorded team of the criminal police. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Filibuster!]] [[Further calls for Greens]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: You have the wrong speech!]] [[Abg. Grosz: If you do not just block the investigation committee, block Parliament!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, a common quality circle has been established. Already in preparation for criminal process reform, the Ministry of the Interior and Justice have developed important solutions in joint working groups. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Come to the committee! Stop swaddling!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graf, President-in-Office of the Council, has addressed the issue of anti-corruption, and the fight against corruption is a good example of this cooperation. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Come to the committee! In the committee you can find all your pumpnadels...!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Talk to the...! He'll thank you very much!]] The court has set up an anti-corruption state attorneyship, and here in the house the law has been passed for the anti-corruption authority; it becomes with 1. ==References====External links== [[Call BZÖ and Green:Filibuster!]] Then the Anti-Corruption State Procuratorship... [[Further calls to BZÖ and Greens, including “Filibuster!” and “Roof off!”]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Is that your understanding of democracy, my much revered Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] – You don’t want to hear where it works! You are only on a scandal with a distortion of the facts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Listen to the facts, then you know that the cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior works great. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... increase of parliamentarism is what is happening here!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, if you are interested in optimizing this cooperation, then you also need to listen to what already works optimally. [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: Turn off! Turn off!]] [[Subsequent calls to FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] We have a good cooperation, which is constantly set up from the level of the district across the country to the federal level. And not only me and Mrs. Minis-Terin Bandion-Ortner work together perfectly, but also the prosecutors with the investigative authorities, every police department for itself with the prosecutors. It is unjust – it is absolutely unjust! – if one raised the accusation here that justice would not work! [[Extensive calls at FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens, including “turn off!”]] [[Deputies of BZÖ and Greens are folding with keyring.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The vortex that arises here is related to me giving my speech during the television time, and one wants to push me away from here, from the microphone, because television is still broadcasting. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, as a minister, I have the right – especially when I am attacked – to defend myself from the government bank here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Come to the committee and don't refuse! Come to the committee and don't refuse!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Come to the committee!]] [[Other fierce calls at FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] I can explain to you, ladies and gentlemen, and to the TV screeners, in detail that cooperation between justice and investigation agencies works perfectly, that the prosecutor works perfectly with the investigative authorities and that we lead the criminals of judicial punishment. We determine the perpetrators, we lead them to justice and the justice condemn them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: This is immense what you allow yourself here!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] The population in Austria has a right to take care of the criminals in the interests of security and to give them an appropriate and appropriate penalty, and this is done through the cooperation of the Ministry of Justice and the Interior. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5995	Mr Dr Graf spoke on business treatment. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Graf, I am speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6025	Madam President. High house! We want to make massive protests against this approach! We have a urgent question to address to the Federal Minister for Justice. It is not common for other Federal ministers to take the time to speak for such a long time – partly not on the subject – during the television period and to speak exactly as long as the public follows this debate. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] I am therefore seeking to deal with this incredible approach by Mrs Fekter to fully consume the speaking time during the television period in the next presidential period. We do not want Parliament to become the sole stage of the government, and we do not want the Members to be allocated any more space in this House in which they can debate. We have time limits, the Federal Ministers do not have them, and if one uses this non-existent time limit for a long time, then the rights of parliamentarians are trampled on.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6084	Mr Graf! First of all, I should like to point out what the Rules of Procedure say: The member of the government responsible for replying to the opinion has a scheduled period of 20 minutes. [[Call the ÖVP: Mr. Graf, you should know that!]] If it lasts longer, it takes longer. We have had that over and over again, there have been many long answers in the past. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is not against the Federal Minister!]] All other members of the Federal Government are entitled to speak for 10 minutes in case of a urgent request. [[Abg. Hornek: (in the direction of Abg. Mr Graf) is in the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.]] I should like to draw your attention to the fact that these 10 minutes have not been exceeded. [[Complaints and bravaders at the ÖVP as well as applause at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Glawischnig spoke on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6163	I ask for a little peace and attention, I would like to say something. - Thank you. This special meeting has been convened in order to point out something that is very important in this Republic, namely that it is obviously the will of the government parties to establish a two-class society in Austria: on the one hand, those who, under the duty of truth – and should violate them, with criminal consequences – must declare themselves in a parliamentary investigation committee, and on the other hand, those who do not have to do so, namely precisely these two ministers. [[Abg. Hornek: Just like the Lord of Olives and the Lord of Pilz.]] Mrs Fekter, you have the right, of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, to speak here during the television period as long as you wish – however, the speaking time must not exceed 10 minutes. [[Call the ÖVP:10 minutes!]] However, they should bear in mind that the crucial question for the population is: Why are you talking here and not in the investigation committee? [[Congratulations and prejudices in the greens and in the case of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] There can be You're talking for as long as you want! [[Abg. Truth: Literary duty!]] Why Refuse You make a statement under the duty of truth in the Investigation Committee, and here you do not even talk about simply filling out the time of television transmission? [[Abg. Amon: Because the matter is the Committee!]] She's gone anyway. But to answer this question now and immediately, you are still invited: Are you willing to speak in such a long and detailed way in the Committee of Inquiry – yes or no? Take another 2 minutes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6257	For business treatment: Mr Mag. Stadler, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6283	First of all, Madam President, I am not so unhappy at the fact that the television viewer is now experiencing the power of the Austrian People's Party, as we do in the Committee of Inquiry, when we sit together with the Austrian People's Party. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] - That's the first one. The second is: The Redeschwall of the Federal Minister Bandion-Ortner was in the lower part on the matter, in the lower part on the subject of the urgent question, as even the urgent request of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Bandion-Ortner referred to a concept of a urgent request which was obviously addressed to her earlier, but not to the right urgent request. But I haven't relevated that yet, I'm relevating it now. In the sense of the Austrian People's Party, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has not at all spoken to the urgent party, but has tried to provide this as a party official during the ORF mission time, with a speech wall that has nothing to do with the urgent, but with the clear objective of simply and simply pushing it out by talking about the matter itself, namely the abuse of power of the Austrian People's Party, especially under its predecessor, Federal Minister Strasser, which she still covers. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Who did not happen! Stay with the truth!]] We should find out that Mrs. Fekter, the Federal Minister, has not said anything to date to stop this abuse of power. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: I can't stop something that doesn't exist!]] But this is the only thing that would interest the citizens. However, because it is not here in the Committee of Inquiry, it cannot be forced to tell the truth with the sanctions of criminal law. This is the difference between the committee of inquiry. That is why the Federal Minister must be in front of the committee of inquiry! Then there's nothing more to win with this Redeschwall, then she has to talk about the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6349	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann's head, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6374	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! First of all: This urgent request with 47 questions mainly addresses the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, but on some questions it naturally – and everyone who reads this – knows the border area to the BMI or even in some questions quite specifically the competence of the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Oils: But she did not answer it!]] And it is no longer right and reasonable for the Minister of the Interior to speak here under the Rules of Procedure and the possibilities given to her by the Rules of Procedure, of which she will only be able to use only 7 minutes in the 10 minutes at any given time, and to try to make supplementary statements on these 47 questions. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: Mr Glawischnig asked for rest during her speech on business treatment, and it was quiet at her request. But what your group has said in comparison to that, when the Minister for the Interior spoke, is that which mocks every description and is really not worthy of this House! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know, it was not our wish that this meeting should begin today at 11 a.m. because everyone knew that at 1 p.m. the news broadcast on television would in any case interrupt the transmission and in this case no longer be continued. I had proposed that we should generally start at 13:15 a.m. after the news release, and the ORF had promised to want to transfer the whole session so that there would have been no dispute at all and no discussion at all: Who still comes on TV from the speakers and who does not? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It's not about this!]] [[Abg. Bucher: What does that have to do with it?]] [[Abg. Grosz: Thank you for your admission!]] You have rejected it, and the President has followed your request. So you actually owe it to yourself that this has happened. We have no influence on when the ORF is transferring here and when not, but it was your proposal to make it the way it has now happened.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6471	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6495	I'd like to add a little more. [[Call the BZÖ: “Add”!]] [[Abg. Grosz: The Beiwagerl!]] I believe that the whole parliamentary work can only work if we always come to a meaningful consensus in the Presidential. I think that's the premise that this works here, too. And I also have to say: If we define the Rules of Procedure in television time, the opposition is always disproportionately taken into account, because we are interested in the fact that this balance is really given here in the House. What I defend against is: If the Ministers are here, according to the Rules of Procedure, they have the right to speak, to express their views, and I say so immediately, that is the result of a non-decided system. If we had the arrangement, then every minister would have known how many minutes he had, and they would certainly have stuck to it if I looked at both like that. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It's not about television! It's about the U-committee!]] That is why, I believe, we should find ourselves in the future presidential sessions – and you have announced that there will be special meetings again – going back to that we are making a reasonable and clear provision in this respect that the ORF will transmit it enough. Then everyone can find themselves on TV, and the viewers will be happy again when they hear and see us again.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6560	I have now called for the statements on business management and note that they were all only partially word messages on business treatment, and there were largely political assessments. We will certainly continue the debate at the forthcoming presidential meetings. My urgent appeal goes to everyone, just as in the past, to find agreements in consensus as regards the Rules of Procedure. I believe that the people have no understanding of this when we talk about Rules of Procedure here. We should focus on the content of discussions. Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6598	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all: That, even if all of this was the case, as Mr Cap has described, leads to two hours of television time being spent almost an hour by the two ministers, not to answer the questions in the end – at least this is the result – that will also have a follow-up. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Half an hour!]] We will now have to talk more deeply about the relationship between Parliament and the Government, but this is not only the plenary session here, but above all the starting point in the committee of inquiry. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have two major issues: the relationship between Parliament and government and the fight against abuse, and this is now also to be considered at several levels. The starting point is that the intention of this urgent request – respectfully what is to be examined in the committee of inquiry – is also the accusation that we have to do with a government justice in Austria – even if it is disputed – that we are dealing with political justice, and I am adding party political justice. That is the starting point of this whole matter. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That's not true!]] This is also the subject of the Committee's inquiry, as you can still call out so much! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That's wrong!]] Now I come to the first conclusion, which we find time and again, but now again very special: There is no fight against abuse in this country, there will be a fight against the onslaughters of the abuses! And there you have the highest competence of the ÖVP, and that's why we get even more together – with certainty! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Further calls of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] – And also in the investigation committee, you can take poison on it! For the time being, I am only focusing more on a Causa, namely on the accusation to Minister Strasser, post-ordering via party book, “management by black party book”. And this is not only confirmed by the e-mails that Mr Stadler has offered a small insight into, there are hundreds and what is worse, there are much more dramatic e-mails. There are also e-mails in the correspondence of the Federal Minister's cabinet, in which it is intervened and which clearly indicate that it is seen that there is actually – I quote – not so capable, sometimes even incapable persons, but they belong to us, it is said. And in one case it says: But the person concerned – let's leave the name – is one of the insanity. One of the insanity! He is incapable, but one of the insanity! And here you now come to the idea of telling us here that there is nothing about it anyway that is paletteti, you would have found nothing in the sense of § 302. – I wonder how you know this so quickly when you look at it all, but that’s another thing. The point is just: If that is the case, then the question of political responsibility is all the more so! If your finding is that this is not relevant by criminal law, the sooner, the faster, the more urgent Strasser needs to hurry into the Investigation Committee to clarify the issue of political responsibility if criminally nothing is done about it. Or we should place all the emails in the individual constituencies from which you come so that you can sit down and say: [[Rejoicing and detonative applause with the ÖVP]] There is no party book economy in the country, that is all a fantasy of opposition!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Kößl: Right, yes!]] So it is: There's no such thing as that! There's no ÖVP partybook at all. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There is no ÖVP at all!]] At the end there is no more ÖVP at all! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That’s how it suits you!]] In any case, they do everything to prove that there is no abuse of power. – Of course there is! It was on the agenda, as Minister Strasser did, and this must and should be examined. And if you don't even invite the confectionery to the committee again, just because you make it that way – and at this point I address the SPÖ for the first time here – that won't be the end of the song here for a long time. We will have more opportunity to talk about it, and I am not sure if at the end of the day you are not transparent and agree to the charge of ex-minister Strasser. This is the turning and fishing point, and that is quite clear if you study the evidence that has been taken unanimously, as you say, and if you only know the facts. But we can help and publish e-mails in a way that makes it easier for the people to understand that even in this country of parliamentarism, that is what it is otherwise in Western-developed democracies, namely, not only a legislative instrument, but also an educational instrument. You don’t do anything good in the long run if you always want to keep the “black tune ” there. In the end, it’s “floating” inside so that you don’t stand it under yourself anymore. You know that very well! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] We are not alone with the assessment of the state of anti-corruption in Austria. The ranking of Austria in the various studies is getting worse regularly. I can refer here to the OECD Working Group on Bribery, to the Transparency International Progress Report, and above all to GRECO – group of European countries on the fight against corruption. We are counting on the status of a developing country! That will be clear when we read these judgments, and you should do so once too. For example, it is found that 2007 and 2008 was not at all a single procedure, not even an investigation, as Transparency International says, has been carried out with regard to bribery accusations. And this is against the background – and also refers to Transparency International – that, for example, in the Eurofighter affair of the investigative committee – of “They never bring something together!” – has supplied material on the side, where one asks why the prosecutor’s office doesn’t follow it. The only thing that has remained is a small procedure for Mr. Wolf – but not to the “great” wolf, to that of Magna, who really needed it, along with his minister, named Grasser, who is assigned to him; no, the “little” wolf, the one from the Air Force, must do so! You're doing it around; I don't even know what came out of it. But nothing else happened! We are already becoming internationally obsessive with this process – that is fact, I can then leave these documents to you. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] Mrs Minister for Justice, it does not help if you try to present here in a sympathetic manner, what has been doubled somewhere and what you obviously cannot even identify yourself with. Now it would be time for us to see how all these mechanisms actually work, because it was here that Mr Pilz and Mr Westenthaler were held, how often they would so-calledly become judicial proceedings, if only immunity did not exist, because the demands for extradition would be a certain statistics. Especially in the case of Mr Pilz, it was true that those who have initially led the suspicion of villain have reimbursed these ads, as the Minister Strasser himself has. The abuse will not be fought, but the discoverer! That's the point. Straster made the ad, but more still: Strasser suggested how mushrooms should actually be treated: The fact is that one might confiscate the computer once and more with him. That's completely absurd! In your opinion, this is not exactly what you think should be invited to the committee! There's nothing else that fits together, and you'd see that, you'd look at it with a clear glasses. Mrs. Federal Minister Bandion-Ortner, at your facility for glasses, I would recommend that you also hand over glasses to the prosecutor so that it is not possible to overlook 150-page convoluts. This formulation alone is an increase in the population! That's exactly what it's all about: That the one who has the executive power continues to refuse to do so, and the other who want to clarify are persecuted. That is to say, it repeats once again what is actually to be investigated in the investigation process itself. It repeats: The decks will be fought – and not the abuses! That's your credo, that's what you have to answer, and that's the opposite of anti-corruption. But we should move there as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to say that the persecution of these abuses is also Parliament's concern. Even if you still want to prevent it with the help of the SPÖ's usual robbers, you won't succeed, it can and won't stay like that! And on this occasion – which was often very helpful – I can remind you that there are so-called two-thirds-matters to be treated here in the house. We don't make it easy with God, we don't say everything is blocked forever and ever, but we have some selected materials to which we have agreed. Come on. You do not then ask that this be an inadmissible junkim, because then again the question arises of how you will paralyze Parliament in the run-up to it, and that will be the issue! But then you'll still have time to get to the point of view. The Minister of Economic Affairs will tell you in good time.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6784	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6805	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! High house! Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that we have done a good job here in this House or in today's debate? – I say to you: Not at all, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We must take this work seriously, which is important for democracy, for Parliament, for Austria, and we have taken the relevant decision here together. I have repeatedly made the proposal to prepare the whole matter in the course of the discussions, and if it is necessary, in the light of the file situation, to assess at the end whether we need a member of the committee of inquiry or not. Should I show you the reaction here? - Zero! And I'll tell you something: It's all known. Mr Westenthaler, the Strasser e-mails – and I am unsuspecting of defending the Ernstl right now – we have already had in the last investigation committee. You knew all that! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't say anything!]] In fact, this has been known for a long time, but we do not want to open it up in a matter of fact, we want to have a political discussion on each subject, and it belongs here and not in the Committee of Inquiry! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now I'm saying something more about it, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: We probably have a great “success” – I say now under quotation marks because it is sad! –, something we have already come to. It would have to be clear to everyone – and he does not have to be legal – for every Austrian, without any legal basis, there is no investigation. I don't care what authority it is, and I don't want you to hide behind interpretations. That is why we have already tabled this motion for a resolution – I do not want to say as an interim report. If, in one of the biggest reforms, we improve the rights of the accused, improve the rights of lawyers, then it cannot be the will of the legislator that the witness is worse placed than the accused. So we'll have to talk about these questions. I think we all agree on the issue of immunity. We were always in agreement. We just needed to deal with it. I did not say that from this speaker's point of view for too long. Ladies and gentlemen, we should really remember that ourselves. This question is far too important – also for future work, and also for where we want to reform the so important instrument of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. It is not a matter of subtracting a political show, of looking at the contents, of sending a report to the House, of which there is a political discussion, but of making the political decisions that are necessary. That would be honest and all right. No one is opposed if it is necessary to load a member of the government, but if it is not necessary, we are at the show. There's no need to be sad. In conclusion, I would ask for one thing – you can't stop us there: The SPÖ was the one who withdrew from the last committee of inquiry, of course, from the right which each Member has, of course, to go to a committee of inquiry. Let's be honest. How do we decide if we ourselves are affected? I know the free mandate, but I think it must be in our interest that we also show ourselves emotion-free from all this personal person that is annoying us and free ourselves from all these questions. Then we would also be much easier in this committee, ladies and gentlemen, because many are personally affected here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Finally, let me point out the following: Now you can already discuss – Mr Bartenstein does not need me to defend him, or vice versa – but one thing is clear: If he is generous in some questions that they are even admitted, then everyone is happy. If he says, after consulting the lawyer, that's not possible at all, then you'll fall over him. And now I'm telling you something: You've delivered each other a match the last time in the committee – be glad that the public has not seen it! I invite you to disarm the words – I say that very consciously now –: Back to the subject matter in the service of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6877	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6898	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of My Dear Ones Ladies on the government bank! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this was actually a good conclusion to this debate – or would it have been. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But since other speakers will also take advantage of their speaking time, as I have seen on the list of speakers, I will of course allow myself to complete it. However, I can really stress many of what Mr Pendl said before me. I think it would be good for the investigations in this committee of inquiry if we could also agree on certain basic conditions within the meaning of these statements. If there had been any further evidence that the opposition and, above all, the Greens were not about objective and truthful investigation in this investigation committee, but about a political spectacle, then today it was again this idea. You're not really about truth, you're not really about facts, you're not about content, you're about the show and just about organizing a spectacle. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Pendl.]] Mr Kogler said this today in an almost disarming openness in his speech. What you're talking about is: At the end there is no more ÖVP. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with greens and FPÖ.]] That is why you are, but that is not the disposition, Mr Kogler. That will be the voter and that will be the decision of the members of our party. You are more on your way there and not the Austrian People's Party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They are not about Parliament, parliamentarianism and democracy. How else have you not even complied with the simplest rules today? How else can you resist the fact that a minister you wish to have in the committee of inquiry is publicly speaking in front of the television audience and that the allegations and content that are ultimately also the subject of this debate are explained objectively and in terms of content? [[Abg. Weinzinger: She didn't do that!]] You cannot resist it if you are interested in finding the truth. But you are not interested in this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I hope that Parliamentary control is important and that the Committee of Inquiry is a very important instrument in the exercise of this control. This has also shown that this House has unanimously agreed to this Committee of Inquiry, including with the votes of my party. We are aware of that. But if you look at your behaviour, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, at the Committee of Inquiry and here too, it is clear: They are not interested in a truthful Enlightenment. There is also a good proof of this. You yourself have commissioned an opinion that so to speak proves you are not interested in the truth finding and that you should also wash in the possibility of making you the accusation, you have not been involved in the objective Enlightenment. You have commissioned a legal opinion from Professor Mayer, and in this opinion he has stated on your behalf and on your request – I quote from this opinion by Professor Mayer – that: That is why a Member of Parliament – and I would like to say that the Greens are, as a matter of priority – not obliged to be objective or neutral in a parliamentary committee of inquiry, nor is he obliged to participate in a complete and truthful investigation of an issue. - Quote. And that is exactly how you act in the Committee of Inquiry, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They only pursue a political objective with this Committee of Inquiry. You're about to get used to it, you're about to be wrong. You're about to make it bad. That is the obvious objective you are pursuing in this committee of inquiry. And then you wonder if we don't play with that? I believe that the speeches by Mr Pendl and Mr Amon today in this debate have proved that we have worked on the contentious preparation of the accusations, their information and the objective truth finding from the outset. I ask you to: Join us and not only when you're following up and making bad! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I admit that it is not always that I agree with Klubobmann Cap, but I can only confirm what he has said today, especially when it comes to the possible danger to the reputation of this House, but also to the Committee of Inquiry's Instruments. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Accompanying Party SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Grosz: The Beiwagerl! Support teacher SPÖ!]] We should be very aware of this danger and this risk. I can really ask you to see this risk. If, on the one hand, the creation of a committee of inquiry always raises expectations so high immediately that at least members of the government or the entire government have to fall over it, but on the other hand they are not prepared to recognise even exasperating facts and objective truth, then the investigation committee, parliamentarianism and this House suffers damage. We don't want to carry that! We should act against this. It is a pity that the opposition is trying to make this investigation committee a political tribunal, an instrument of political work. The political work here belongs to the plenary, to the committees of this Parliament, to the public discussions. The Committee of Inquiry is there to promote the truth, to identify facts and to conduct objectively various accusations in the room. And to go objectively means that statements of information people are also recognized if they do not fit into one's business if they do not support the image you are trying to draw from the opposition, but just put the facts on the table. That is exactly what happens, I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, in part in the Committee of Inquiry, that it is not an efficient investigation, but rather that from the sides of the opposition – especially colleagues Pilz and Stadler are very vulnerable to it – people are confronted with statements, accusations and so long as they do not express exactly what they want to hear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] But this is not truth research, ladies and gentlemen. Truth research is to recognize what is said under the duty of truth, and not to put pressure on someone to say what they want to hear. That's not truth research! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to point out another risk and draw attention to a danger. In the end, I think we should also take care of the results of this Committee of Inquiry when dealing with the conclusions. There is also a need to be careful. On the one hand, we should take into account the results that are at the end of the table, of course, in our work, in order to implement them accordingly, for reforms, for novices, but on the other hand, we should not hand out the child with the bath. As far as immunity is concerned, I am particularly sensitive, because immunity is not, as some might wish, a law of protection, especially for oppositional Members, to cover any criminal offences and to pardon them for life – that is not immunity. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Kill! ...! That's not a protection!]] Immunity, and from this point of view it has been introduced, is intended to safeguard Parliament's work and not to mean the personal security of a Member. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it! That's right! Let's go! Bravo!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just submit an application!]] We must also be careful to ensure that this comes to an end and not what some people want here, namely that they are under a protection bell for so to speak, but that the citizen can be persecuted if he becomes a criminal offence. We do not want to, and we will not agree to that either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should therefore like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, of the Greens whom you have put this question today, but also all the members of the opposition in the committee of inquiry: Let us go away from party political polemics, let us go to objective information, to investigate facts, in an efficient way, in a way that ultimately also serves the purpose of the investigation! Let us not go with a preliminary opinion, as you unfortunately often do, into a survey in the committee of inquiry! Then we have provided a service to parliamentarianism, a service to democracy and a service to the functioning of this state.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7083	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7104	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! I do not quite understand the excitement now when it comes to blaming the ÖVP Postenschacher and the party book economy. As a Lower Austrian, I do not need a committee of inquiry to know this, not only in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, but also in other areas, whether this takes place in the public service or elsewhere. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] You don't need a committee of inquiry, you just have to ask people on the street, and you'll get the answers. [[Abg. Hornek: I like a lot of blue ministers who...!]] On the question of political responsibility: The Federal Minister first said that the law enforcement authorities are there to work legally, and the investigation committees are there to clarify the political responsibility. Only, Mrs. Federal Minister: We don't get politicians in the investigation committee. How can we clarify a political responsibility without having politicians there? Here it is clearly measured with the wrong measure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Bandion-Ortner, you said there were mistakes, and you had to work on them. I say: A present act, which also concerns a politician, shall be notified in a particular case by the competent official: Yes, there's been a mistake in the prosecutor's office. But the cabinet says: But this must not be out to the public, it must be changed in advance. This is not the way to deal with mistakes or the like, but an offensive strategy should be applied if you already say that where people work, mistakes happen. There's one thing I'm saying is that this is actually a great monsterity. There I would ask you, Mrs Minister, for information. In the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of 4. In November 2009, the prosecutors, represented by their president, spoke. It is accused of being misused by Members. Here is literally – I quote –: “It is not the representatives of the judiciary who are criticised, but individual members of the Committee of Inquiry on the ‘spitting affair’, who take an unblemished influence on pending criminal proceedings...” Ladies and gentlemen! There are 17 members of all parties represented in the Investigation Committee. I can say to my group colleagues and to myself that it was not liberal mandates who tried to influence the prosecution in any form. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But we want to know about the prosecutor's office: Who are these delegates sitting in there? Otherwise, it could be suspected that the prosecutors are also unsubstantiated to throw some nebula grenades to distract them from inadequacies in their own sphere. We want to know that so that the mistakes can be made. It is really a hygienic measure for this Parliament that these delegates are also called by the public prosecutor or by you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, you will have noticed that the Public Prosecutor's Office has consistently had poor media coverage in the context of the previous findings from the Investigation Committee. And it is striking that there is a political department – or political department – that does not work for the special pleasure of at least Parliament – probably a party here. But there's also a press speaker. And I ask, in view of the staff need – since we always hear that the reform would have had too few prosecutors –: Does every prosecutor really have to afford a press officer who has so many contacts that he is set free? We would be of the opinion that every prosecutor would actually have to do his own thing instead of providing the media with various information. Media policy is not interested in a prosecutor's office, nor in it if it is so imprecise. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Grosz: Jarosh!]] As a result, a press speaker in the investigative committee was already apologising for a flattering remark and apologies for such an approach in the tone. We believe that it would be sufficient if the public were to be informed about the press office of the ministry itself about really important things. In this context, Mrs Bundesminister: Don't you wonder that things get out of the field of justice over and over with high-gloss magazines? For example, I think only of a small case: A politician makes a request for advice payment at a court and in the next issue of the magazine “NEWS” is already in there that this has happened. Is it possible for the politician himself to want to have a bad press – I don't know if there are such perverse politicians – can the lawyer be guilty of that, or has he been examined whether there are untightly places in the field of justice itself? – I miss the results. On the question of general handling of various ads. I wonder what lack of criminalist expertise is often going on. In some cases, it is said: Well, every substrate I miss is that a politician's accused, he can only be a maximum witness. Just a little criminalistic thought would be quite clear that quite different facts are possible. Now on the question of where the close bodies are. It seems to me that a killer is found on the street, and next to it is a gun from the Ministry of the Interior. It doesn't matter who the murderer is or who the body is, the main thing you find out is: How does the Service Gun even get out of the ministry? This is the process we think is clearly the wrong one. Next thing: It was addressed to the BIA. The Minister for the Interior could have spoken at least now, since it is about her area. But perhaps at the next debate, she will tell us something about agriculture or culture, depending on how she likes. In any case, it is about the various accusations concerning the BIA. For example, it is described – and this is also aware of the facts – that an employee of Mr. Strasser simply took a hard drive out of the safe and put it in the oven at home, burned it in the fireplace. We've heard that's not possible at all. You can't burn hard drives at all. [[Abg. Amon: Yes! Didn't you listen? Over 1,000 degrees!]] – Right, they can be burned at more than 1,000 degrees. It is, I believe, not a normal home fireplace or cast iron in Sweden, where these 1,000 degrees are produced. But that's just going to pass – even without clarifying who this hard drive belongs to. Maybe she was state-owned? As a result, the damage to a laptop of the Minister who is made available to him by the Republic and who in an attack of anger rehearses his chauffeur, or similar, does not really fall into the area of great crime, but it is not determined at all. Can these things have come from there, for example, because it's all too embarrassing? And the question that really arises here is: How can it happen that, especially in the field of the ÖVP, all these things – even if they have been processed in the media – must always fall back to oblivion on the question of legal assessment? . On this issue the nebulae of the investigation committee was very likely. It was said of the consequences. There are clearly no consequences that Mrs Bandion-Ortner has now addressed quite specifically. We have not heard anything about the role of the Supreme Procuratorate, either in part or in part, in terms of disciplinary proceedings or similar. Mrs. Bandion-Ortner said she wished it would be better. – Wish that would be something for the Christian child, which is approaching soon. You have it in your hand – with an instruction or with a decree or similar! [[Abg. That's what we want!]] You have control in your hand, you don't need to want anything. They can decide there, and that ministers can do so is also a liberal approach. We want to have the right of guidance so that you don't just have to want something, but so that you can turn it off. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But one thing can't be: If the report comes from the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, then the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office joins the public prosecutor's opinion; if the Ministry of Justice then comes to criticise the public prosecutor's office, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office also joins. To conclude: We have also seen in the Committee of Inquiry – and this should give hope – that there are and have been committed and objective prosecutors who were very likely to be needed as a person for information, so that they can really bring light to the matter, and which could not be kept in check by any career prospects or similar. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this direction, I would also like to continue to have a good investigation work in the Committee of Inquiry. Mr Donnerbauer, if you say that there is no political work in the Committee, political work is only taking place here in plenary, then that is fundamentally wrong. Listen to your own minister, or nominated by you, she is independent, who has said that political responsibility must come out of the committee of inquiry! [[Abg. Grosz: No one now believes that!]] - Well, politics. Listen to your minister if you do not receive any suggestions from the largest opposition party!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7253	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7274	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ms. Minister of Justice – the Minister of the Interior is on the run somewhere! [[Abg. Grosz: Now the television time is over!]] I'm a little disappointed, Mrs. Minister! Why am I disappointed? – You have brought – and that was quite refreshing for each of us – really new momentum when you took up your office. That was really refreshing. It wasn't that everyday political speech, it was very unconventional what you did. Everyone said that this was actually a very interesting new appearance in politics, and everyone was very positive. They have – and I believe this to this day – also high respect for Parliament, for the committees, for the Members, for this House – quite contrary to the Minister of the Interior, who – as we have been allowed to experience in the Committee on the Interior – has not at all appreciated this respect at all, but probably very much appreciates Parliament. You don't. For this reason I was already surprised because it would have been much better for you and for your unconventional, refreshing kind if you had turned out and said: Yes, I answer the questions, and I have no problem at all with coming to the Investigation Committee. I'll come and stand by your speech and answer! – This is against the background that most of the – 99 percent – we are discussing concerns your predecessor, Mrs Minister. You have no reason at all to fear anything. Perhaps that's what anyone in the ÖVP has told you, but there's no reason at all for this, and I think you should consider taking this step again. Maybe you can convince the Minister of the Interior. We have thought that we are still considering something and give you a little help – with the kind support of the BZÖ, so to speak. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Then we'll be easy, Mrs. Minister. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] I think that's just such an unconventional idea as you're unconventional and not get into the politicism and that old water. If you call us three dates, we will refer the Committee to them, and then we will talk to each other in committee, because it is also necessary to talk there. I believe that you – because you have not yet been to the committee – do not know what is happening there, what the results have been. If Mr Donnerbauer and others come out here and say that we were only doing cheap show in the investigation committee, then I am not going to do so, because it is true that even a public prosecutor who has even been withdrawn from the procedure – I call his name, Kronawetter – has been illegally opposed to a speech by a parliamentarian in the House and then, when he realizes that this was wrong, even against the staff of the parliamentary club, is not only a scandal, but a classical documented constitutional breach, Mrs Minister. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] It is not enough, Mrs. Minister – I was amazed – to tell us today – and that was the real novelty in reply – that nothing has happened. The prosecutor is in office and dignity, there is no procedure. That's done, there's no offenses. – What else is to happen worse than that a prosecutor himself violates the laws, yes, even the Constitution? I therefore call for the appropriate disciplinary measures to be taken against this prosecutor and for at least an identification of why he has done so. I believe that this is urgently necessary because it must not happen a second time. It's not always just a mistake. They say it's a mistake. – Yes, mistakes are already happening, but we see that they always happen to the same people and are always determined against the same people. If opposition politicians are identified, they are looked very closely and if government politicians are identified, then they are carefully looked away, left behind, delayed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] - We don't want to. This is not an objectivity in justice, Mrs. Minister! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] I will call on two witnesses, who are in the House today, but who have not spoken. Madam Minister, if you do not believe it, perhaps you believe it is the President of Parliament! I quote them very fresh, 24. October, in the daily “The Press”: National Council President Barbara: ‘Prammer is taking care of the rule of law’. The investigative committee – she says – has “promulgated many important indications” in which prosecutors have “appointed arbitrary actions that would deny any rule of law”. - Quote. This is a threat to the rule of law, the President of the Parliament is directing you, Mrs Minister! - That's where you have to act! It's not the evil opposition that fairy tales spread, but it's a witness I call here. Another witness, Mr Bartenstein, who is not speaking today. – It’s a mystery to me, too. Although he is the chairman of the committee, he is not nominated; he does not concern me, but it is kind of strange. ==References== October an interview to the “Standard” and literally said: Bartenstein “seems it has been shown that the prosecutor has shot beyond the goal when the phone was picked up by Peter Westenthaler’s phone. This has consequences for all citizens". That's why I'm doing it, Mrs. Minister. Let's move beyond the edge of the plate! It's not about defending our immunity. Bought! Let's get her out of here! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Kill!]] I don't have a problem with that at all. We will make a request, and then we will see if Mr Donnerbauer agrees. I don't need that. What this is about is not the protection of ourselves. We can defend ourselves. We can go to the speaker's desk here, we can work in committees, we can make press releases. What it is about me, Mrs Minister, is that the same methods are applied not only against us oppositionists, but also against people who oppose this government and come from other areas: against doctors, against journalists, against lawyers, against scientists and perhaps also against priests, who knows! Who knows what is applied to hidden investigation methods, illegal call data acquisitions! We reject this because it concerns fundamental rights, human rights, personal rights, which are being trampled on by the public prosecutor's office in Vienna and by the investigative authorities in the Ministry of the Interior. We strongly reject that! [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] There too, Mrs Minister, we are not alone. I have a whole pack of quotations that I don't even want to make because I have so little speaking time. Andreas Unterberger, “Wiener Zeitung” – I hope, Mrs. Minister, that this comment was not the reason for his being cast out by Faymann, I hope not; there are certain rumors – writes under the title “Currency, prosecutor” about this investigation committee and about the identification of immediately and mobile phone call data. He criticizes this and comes to the end – I quote literally –: “The prosecutors in the Vienna area have become a danger to the rule of law.” Or: Wolfgang Simonitsch – he was at the gallery until recently – speaks of the “Small Newspaper” as “fragile tricks”, which “embracing justice to put pressure on Members who are particularly protected by immunity”. “This practice smells like a scandal of justice.” – “Small Newspaper”. Or: “The Press”, Martin Fritzl writes under the title “When Politics Are Spitted”: “The prosecutor is not concerned about how Members get sensitive information.” Or – also an excellent colleague –: Andreas Koller of the “Salzburger Nachrichten” writes under the title “Westenthaler’s mobile phone must remain private” – I quote the general he says, literally –: ‘Austria stands out as a country in which government agencies are staggering members of the opposition while the government is free from criminal law;’ This is what Koller writes, not the evil opposition, but a journalist who has been awarded in this country. Faith You got him what happened here! A scandal, Mrs. Minister! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] I could continue this list. – “Kurier”, Josef Votzi writes: Color blindness of justice on one eye?, always when it comes to the government. That's all against it! Something else, because it is also mesmerizing, Mrs Minister, and that has already been mentioned today: There is a spokesman of the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office, who is always, if there is something negative against opposition, especially when it concerns the FPÖ or the BZÖ, partly also the Greens, immediately at the microphone and immediately represents everything negative; against which it is determined, and that is determined. – Mrs Minister, stop that! That is not acceptable, therefore, because behind each other there is still such a murky and bleak court case between two accents and a lot of paper hiding people and existences. That a spokesman of the prosecutor goes to the public and not only deliberately conducts disinformation, but also diffamation against a person who is not even somehow suspected of diffamation against his family and personal integrity, he does not have to do that! That's not true, Mrs. Minister! In this case, consequences must also be taken into account. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] The prosecutor's spokesman has apologised. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: When?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: months later!]] I also took note of this, but I do not know if that can be enough if he apologises for an investigation committee, months after he did so, and not in the media. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He'd have to apologize three times a day!]] I think it would be appropriate to determine this once and also to formulate rules when a prosecutor, including the public prosecutor's spokesman, is even legitimated to say something in the public, for, Mrs Minister: An ad is there quickly. It was also defamatory, and I am right to all those who have criticized Amon today, who have turned out here and said that there have been so many extraditions. – Well, well, because there are the ads from the BIA, of which – and I stay there – black Spittel Police, which is run under the supervision of the Ministry of the Interior. It's indicated, then you're an all-in-one, then once you're very quickly pre-condemned and you're executed in a very fast medial way; what comes out is not so interesting anymore. That's the method, that's system; System and methodology of this authority and also parts of the public prosecutor's office: Pre-condemning, diffamation and medial execution of oppositional or people who are not the opinion of the government. – We strongly reject this, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] The consequence – I conclude – can only be that this House is authorized to control the prosecutors. I'll keep it with Fekter, I'll give it to her, and I'll keep it with Otto Pendl, who asked for it: Yes, it is time for us to consider regularities that the People's Office that this House has finally had a really good control over the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7464	Mr Van den Broek, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. Westenthaler's application is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7525	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7546	Ladies and gentlemen! After fulfilling her mission and stealing valuable discussion time in the television era, the Minister of the Interior went back to the Ministry of the Interior, because there is still a rest of officials who have not yet joined the Austrian People's Party. This problem obviously needs to be solved. I personally can bear that behind me on the government bank now does not sit Mrs. Dr. Fekter, I'm enough of the Minister of Justice. I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for not reading from her prescribed speech at a moment, but, in free choice of words, giving something quite remarkable to the record, namely: In the case of the party book economy in the Ministry of the Interior, it is not a case for criminal justice, but it is above all the political responsibility to clarify. Mrs Bundesminister, the following logically follows a question: Where is political responsibility to be clarified? And a second question: Whose political responsibility should be clarified? The answer to the first question will probably not be: The question of political responsibility is to be resolved in the Ministry of Justice or in the Party Presidency of the Austrian People's Party!Unknown term type: "%s".? – There is only one place, and this is Parliament, and there is only an effective instrument in Parliament for this, which is the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Thank you, Minister of Justice, for asking us to examine the political responsibility! We will be happy to meet your request. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] On the second question: Who should be the subject of investigation as a person – please, not to understand this depressingly? Who should be an informant? – Yes, obviously not the small officials, but the politically responsible ones! Perhaps you can still tell the National Council's plenary who you think is politically responsible in the Ministry of Justice – that's probably not in your manuscript, that's what you need to add in free speech! - Is it the porter? Is it the person who drives the files to and from the Wagerl? Are these middle officials? Is this the person who is the minister's expert in brewing the coffee? [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: This is not an investigation, but a polemic!]] Or is that perhaps the minister herself? So let me address the question to you: Is the Minister of Justice politically responsible in the Ministry of Justice? – That’s an exciting question – and I’m looking for you to look into your manuscript and if you don’t find an answer there, please give us an answer to the best of knowledge and conscience. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] Perhaps you could also answer a similar question for the Ministry of the Interior. There is a similar group of persons in question, i.e. the people who make the coffee, the porter and so on – and the Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The chauffeurs!]] – Chauffeurs and chauffeurs, excuse me, I have forgotten ;confidants first rank. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They really know something!]] Can you give us an appropriate indication of who carries political responsibility in the Ministry of the Interior? Can you rule out that this is the Minister of the Interior? – That would be two answers to two exciting questions, especially since you proposed that Parliament examine political responsibility. I have more questions. If – and this is quite an interim outcome of the investigation committee – the political prosecutors of the political department of the public prosecutor's office in Vienna do not think of investigating cases of abuse of office, corruption and the party's book economy in the Federal Government, do you – first question – have a chance to convince the rulers that they still have to do so because they are legally obliged to do so? Second question: If they are unable and unwilling to do so, who will you order? Or are you of the opinion that the state that the crimes of the Austrian People's Party at the head of ministries must not be investigated that this condition will be maintained? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Official abuse is a crime, infidelity is a crime, the suspension of public orders is a crime, the breach of official secrecy is a crime, and the incitement, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, of course, also. It's not about anything. It is not about mistakes and oblivion, but about politically motivated crime at the head of federal ministries, and we want to investigate that. [[Abg. Amon: Are you talking about the case of oillingers?]] We want to investigate why people sitting on the charges bank in every state of law are always on the government bank in Austria – equipped with ÖVP mandates. We want to examine this in parliamentary terms, and we need the assistance of the Minister for Justice. We urgently need your expert advice, but not from an official, but in free words and under the obligation of witness, and that is why we will have to continue the parliamentary emergency defence together until we have achieved our goal of asserting, in the interests of the entire Parliament and in the interests of parliamentary democracy, that there is also a political responsibility of government members before the Austrian National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7683	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7705	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion today – you can only agree with Otto Pendl – is truly not a famous one, because of course there are a number of measures and incidents that are highly strange and annoying. Of course, it is completely incomprehensible why a 150-page display – which, in my view, undoubtedly represents abuse of power – is not being treated. I therefore believe that it is hardly to be argued – if you listen in a few ways in the professional world, how to deal with these processes of the Federal Minister Strasser – that this is not a crime. What I don't like, Mrs. Federal Minister, is that today such a bashing of the prosecutor's office is taking place and it becomes a central debtor for all that has happened in the country. It is precisely these political crimes, which we have mainly discussed today, that are offences that are dealt with in so-called reports. Say: They don't stay with the prosecutor's office, which is determined, but they're going through the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry – the so-called Reporting Department, Section IV – and they're being treated there. That is to say, one cannot raise the accusation that the public prosecutor's office in Vienna has completely run out of the row. The Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office is subject to the Ministry of Justice. Now I would think that you should deal with this circumstance as you want, but to convey the impression that the prosecutors should be brought outside to the Council, but these are subject to this guidance chain – and that is why there are these too – I find a little unfair. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then there should have been an instruction, right?]] I do not think it is very transparent, either, if the prosecutor's spokesman – in which we actually ask for information again and again and again, it cannot be said that what is going on in the judicial system is happening behind dark walls – is now suddenly, obviously for some personal reason, being appointed as a fine image. Mrs Bundesminister Bandion-Ortner, in this context I have a great request to you: In the Ministry of Justice – and we all know the ministry as one of the most factual, with excellent experts – there is a heated discussion about the fact that the ministry is to be regrouped. When this was told to me, I first believed that it must be a wrong campaign to harm you. This regroup should happen in a way that has personally reminded me, I say now, very much of the processes at the time in the Ministry of the Interior under Strasser. The presidential section is to be enriched with a number of competences, so that you actually put a focus in the whole ministry. I wonder, What is the background of this, why should it happen, and for whom? In addition, one thing is to happen, namely that the guidance section – that is, the area in which the instructions are dealt with – is combined with that area which is responsible for criminal law, which brings about the development of criminal law, discussions in Europe, but also here in Parliament with parliamentarians and politicians. Mrs Minister, I do not know any person in the professional world who considers this procedure to be comprehensible, and this project has also led to the completion of petitions even within the objectively oriented staff of the Ministry of Justice. I've heard that you're now considering not implementing this measure. I hope that this is true because it would be extremely harmful if you were to force exactly those people who should have to decide on directions to contact those Members who, of course, have one or another wish. I believe that this can be said by all of us, but to put in place such a measure to reward a person – obviously the head of the section who has committed himself as the only one who has dared to oppose the imposition of a trial against a corrupt judge in Graz – in a way that I consider to be indispensable. I hope the rumor is true that this measure will not be put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7747	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7769	Mr President. Dear Federal Ministers! Would there have been a need for further evidence – which has already been stressed several times today, but nevertheless – if one remembers what happened here an hour ago in this House – with what hateful speeches this debate has ended here today? What do the audiences in front of the televisions have to think of us today?- Oh, my God! What contributions have been made to actually revive democracy in Austria? I think that should give all of us a thought. Today, when ministers appear here, parliamentarians steal the time for their statements and express themselves in a way on topics... [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: This is my business law! I'm not stealing anyone's time!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] – You can then speak, as you did this morning. You've been stealing me again! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, please don't! It would be best if the minister never spoke again! I'd love that!]] If the statements do not yet belong to them, then I have to say quite openly, this is an approach that simply does not belong to parliamentarianism. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it was delivered today a moral image that reminded me of bad times, but one thing I have to say to you: The people outside have the need and the right to know what is going on here and in the ministries. This is the reason why we have to fulfil this parliamentary mission, namely to show the truth – as good as it is – for the people of this country, and we have the moral obligation and the political responsibility to clarify abuses. My dear Mrs. Bandion-Ortner, you said you do not want political justice. - Yes, who wants that?- Oh, my God! We do not want to do this either, but who exactly prevents you from telling the investigation committee under the obligation of truth? What prevents you from doing so? We'll even release the bus track you're so happy to strip so you can get here faster. Mrs Bundesminister, take note of this offer! However, we also want to ensure that this Committee of Inquiry is in the future an instrument that can also meet these intentions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, everyone who has been a member of a committee of inquiry or is currently aware of the difficulties we face. With Rules of Procedure tricks, the oppositions are so distributed that you repeatedly take time and find plenty of reasons to avoid getting to the bottom of the truth. Finally, you are working on it, Mrs Federal Minister for Justice, so that we have the framework conditions that allow us to work well at all. Work on a Rules of Procedure that will finally allow us to load at last also federal ministers in such a way that we can get some things to the ground! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am reminded of disastrous mistakes that really need to be clarified. I recall the Causa Kampusch, and I recall the statements made by Mr Adamovich. What kind of responsibility do we have? To this day, this responsibility has not been assumed by anyone. There are tons of files transported to the "Falter". – Who takes responsibility for these misdemeanors? Who takes responsibility for the post-chakers who are well-known and for the procurement of combat aircraft, which has not yet been clarified? It is an anachronism when people today determine things and do not know the legal basis for them. Out of ten BIA investigators surveyed, nine could not tell us on what legal basis they were even investigating. In Austria, people are being questioned and stifled, and no one knows on what legal basis this is happening. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a scandal! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] Let us not allow this beautiful country of Austria abroad to really be called the scandalous country! Only the newspapers are needed today – every second week we have a new scandal. At present, for example, BUWOG and Karl-Heinz “Kassa”, who served himself there, or Skylink. I'll tell you: People are really tired of having to deal with such things every day in this situation, in which they have to face unemployment and social losses. That's what we're for. You have not been elected by the government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister Bandion-Ortner, I should like to conclude by asking you: Do you really know exactly how many procedures there are currently against prosecutors who have been notified because committed citizens no longer like how they deal with them? Mr Westenthaler has shown some very specific examples, which were really solid and which I can only join. [[Abg. Grosz: How in Sicily!]] Let me give you some examples of ads for abuse of office: There are currently ads against Dr. Otto Schneider, prosecutor, Dr. Werner Pleischl, Dr. Ronald Schön, Dr. Susanne Kerbl-Cortella, Mag. Michael Schnell...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7872	The total speaking time of your group is exhausted, Mr deputies. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7893	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7920	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7952	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Today, it is not about, as you have said in flowering words, the fact that errors occur where we are working, that we learn from mistakes, or, as you have said, that we are preventing the formation of legends, but today, Mrs Federal Minister, it is about how this federal government deals with Parliament and with the instruments of this Parliament. Today it is about how you deal with dissidents – with opposition in the big or with small officials. Today it is about the abuse of power of the ÖVP. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have experienced what arrogance of power means. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Oellinger and Mr Graf.]] Today we have experienced a black day in the high house in the truest sense of the word. The Minister for the Interior has made it clear what she stands for when she comes out of here and finds that there has been no abuse of power and no indication that such a one has happened. Mrs Fekter, this is something that only someone for whom it has become commonplace can say, for the errors that my previous speakers have presented here at the speaker's desk, are quite normal. Mr. Justice Minister, it is about the independence of justice today. We believe that this independence is actually at risk. It is about fundamental rights that are being trampled on – whether for parliamentarians here in the House or for Austrians seeking their right – and it is about establishing a system of the ÖVP. Many speak of the "System Grasser", in which some of the ÖVPs are preferred and enjoy financial benefits. Some speak of the “System Strasser”, in which a recoloration action took place in the Ministry of the Interior, which is unprecedented in history. “System Grasser”, “System Strasser” – it is at least a system of the ÖVP that is taking place here in Austria and against which it is important to take proper action. Mrs. Justice Minister, you would have had the opportunity to prove here in the House today that you are actually party-independent and not a party soldier of the ÖVP – and that you are actually cleaning up with parts of the system. But on the contrary: You have given public places of your own, and unfortunately we need to note that you are not really willing to make a contribution to the Committee of Inquiry and to clean up this system once and for all in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Kickl:... socialized!]] But what is even more embarrassing is the behavior of SPÖ. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's right!]] It is embarrassing how the SPÖ will become a supplier of the ÖVP in a kind of self-achievement. Mr Cap as a clubman is just the lap dog of the ÖVP, who likes to be caressed and accommodated. [[Abg. Grosz: Yes!]] For example, the current university debate: Bruno Kreisky was the one who fought and started free access to the university. Today, your party president demands admission restrictions at the universities! [[Abg. Prehauser: Access schemes!]] Your EU competence – history of social democracy! – you have given up completely. You're trying to get a few posts in the ORF, but what's going on? There comes the ÖVP and says: Well, the ORF law will not be negotiated as quickly as possible. In reality, make it possible You are a two-class company in Austria, a two-class company of the ÖVP: There are those who can judge it – these are those who are close to the ÖVP – and those who have to comply with the laws – these are all other Austrians. There are those who can buy and hide benefits – that is, those who are close to the ÖVP – and those who have to suffer disadvantages because they are dissident because they have a different party book. Mr. Minister of Justice Bandion-Ortner, you said today that we need to learn from our mistakes. Learn from the mistakes made by the party close to you, Mrs. Justice Minister! Learn from the mistakes you may have made in the last few days, take the consequences and come to the Investigation Committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8057	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8078	Mr President. Ministers! High house! The previous speaker has just proved “impressive” – “impressive” of course, under quotation marks – that this urgent request was used by the opposition parties to carry out a general smear campaign here in this House – and not to speak about the contents concerning the Committee of Inquiry by means of material statements. Our task in the Committee is to address the important concerns of the investigation. It is not a question of the intensive and intelligible treatment of persons, i.e. witnesses, there by representatives of the opposition parties, that they no longer know what they have been asked. That is not our task, as I mean – obviously in contrast to the representatives of the opposition parties. We Socialists want to carry out our task objectively, quickly and precisely. From what we have brought to light in the Committee of Inquiry so far. Our mission is to bring about legal changes. The SPÖ stands for this object-oriented work. Our demands from the preliminary results of the Committee of Inquiry are: There must be clear rules for secondary employment of workers in the field of safety. It cannot be that training on taxpayers costs leads to additional money being earned in secondary employment. It is also important for secondary employment to be reviewed over and over again. Another point that has been raised several times today is transparency in the work of prosecutors. Parliamentary control must be introduced, and nothing must be forgotten – investigation orders must be recorded in writing. Another insight from the work in the Investigation Committee is that the fight against right-wing extremist activity in our country – virtual, on the Internet, and, of course, the way in which they are going and are given – needs to be given increased attention. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out the following: Mr Westenthaler learned that his phone's phone's phone records were recorded in February 2009. In July 2009, there was a very great excitement here, and the investigation committee was then set up. Here, too, it can be seen that not the same action was performed, but the stage was staged. Ladies and gentlemen from the opposition parties, our task is far too important to get on with these elements. I really ask you to find They return to the material and precise work! This would do much better for democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8135	Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8160	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lapp has reflected an untrue situation. In fact, it has literally said that at the beginning of February, in February, I had learned about the collection of call data and had not acted until July. – This claim is incorrect and false, it can be proved wrong because on the same day that I learned of it, namely, on the 9th. February, when consenting before the BIA had written a letter to the Procuratorate and immediately, on the same day, acted half an hour after my consent and had communicated this matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] That means you said the untruth.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8193	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8214	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! We are not in the Committee of Inquiry today, but we have a debate on the basis of a urgent question to the Minister of Justice, in which, of course, many details are being debated from the Committee of Inquiry. I am now saying to my group – and this is what the Klubobmann has already done at the beginning of the debate – that it is good to have an interim report here in the House after eleven working sessions of the Committee of Inquiry. ......................................................................... I believe that the debate today has also shown very clearly the different approaches. On the one hand, those parties who are trying to investigate the actual and suspected abuses in justice, in administration, in all areas of our Republic are specifically investigating, identifying abuses and working to bring about improvements. There are other groups that seek to be perceived publicly as opposition from other interests. There is Mr Pilz, who today is an intrusive man who is trying to save the opposition coalition. Without wanting to betray a secret, I must say that the work in the Committee of Inquiry is much better, much more efficient and much more comradeship than we experience in the media public or in today's debate. Mr Bartenstein has already been praised. I would like to pass on the praise to the leaders of the political groups of all five parties, because there are always good discussions and cooperation, for example, when it comes to agreeing with the load lists. I've got a five-party request from 19. October. At the end of a really intense meeting, all the chairmen of the political groups agreed on the load list for this week and the load lists for next week. There has been no other request, all the others have been withdrawn. The five parties to the Committee of Inquiry have found themselves after a brief debate to define the further procedure together. In the media presentation, however, this looks quite different in the outside representation. In the Committee of Inquiry there is very positive and constructive cooperation, and thank you very much for that. I do not want to go any further into the oppositional relationship crisis that has developed over the last few days. Of course, it is not uninteresting for the Social Democrats to communicate what the opposition representatives are communicating in the public. That's where the FPÖ speaks of wild, unsustainable attacks by the Greens. The Greens speak of the FPÖ's style in the beyond, and Mr Stadler, who has developed a loving access to the Committee of Inquiry, speaks of amorous approaches. All this is part of political activity, all this must be allowed and possible. It is important that we have concrete results, that we show parliamentary results and that we give the population a clear signal that asks us: What's going on with the investigation committee? Is the result of one that brings us on? Does the Committee of Inquiry make more democracy, more rule of law, more transparency, closer to citizens or not? We are all invited together to ensure that there is more rule of law, more democracy and more proximity to the citizen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8266	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8287	Mr President. Dear Federal Ministers! High house! I believe that my case fits very well on today's issue, on the issue of immunity. Mr Amon mentioned today that Members should not be sorry. I can assure you, I'm in no way sorry. Some things I understand But not. My act is an hasty procedure. Mr Amon said that these rapid procedures are necessary. It is true that the act is urgent, speedy. ==References== September the request for my delivery by messengers will be sent forth “dispensingly. ” That's what's going to happen on 28 October. On October 1st, in Parliament. That's where I have to ask myself: Has he walked over Moscow, or how is such a thing possible? I would also like to point out here that it is incredible that in Austria the media have all the documents and someone is slaughtered for months in the media, while as a victim there is no documentation at all. I have the greatest confidence in the Austrian Public Prosecutor's Office. However, I could never be given the act. Now, thank God, it turns out, you'll all see that all the accusations that have been made against me have been drawn by the hair without letup. I don't want to go closer to that now, just one: At the time when I was in Bhutan as part of a parliamentary delegation, for which there are some witnesses, e-mails were written on my behalf, and these e-mails are in the act. ==References== August my lawyer sent me an e-mail to the Parliament address, and this e-mail landed on 16 August. ==References====External links== As I said, all the accusations are unstoppable. Now I can easily prove it all. In the future, however, we should be careful to do so immediately if you deliver. Above all, there is no need for extradition, if there is no political connection at all. There's no extradition. In this case, one should finally create clear guidelines and lay down that certain authorities provide all the media with the content of the file, only the person concerned does not get it. This media execution is an insanity, even if you have family and children. But, as I said, everything will turn out. I have never missed anything, nor have I ever done anything with any fake branded goods or with T-shirts or with anything else. I'm not connected to such a thing. Today in June was already determined against me. In June, the customs office of Innsbruck called me and asked if they could keep an eye on my business. That's what I said: Of course. I've always said I'm going to open everything up. The customs has, of course, found nothing, has closed the act. But still everything comes to the public, there is a medial spread, even though it's only fairy tales. I don't understand what immunity means. The customs, the customs authority may determine on the one hand, on the other hand, when I go to the prosecutor and politely ask if I can have the act so that I do not hear from the media what I am accused of, I get the answer: Ladies and gentlemen! I can't even talk to you. The only thing I confirm – Dr. Apostol has said to me – is, since 1984, since the case of Androsch, there has been no such media coverage as you have, and this is due to such thin evidence. But he said to his defense – and I think so – he didn't listen to the media. I would ask for either the abolition of immunity or for the Federal Minister to designate the public prosecutor's office, where the Committee does not need to be tried if it is determined. It may not be that the customs duty is determined and on the other hand it is said in the authority: I can't find out, I can't give you anything, I can't talk to you! This includes clear guidelines. And I can tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen: The thing that happened to me can meet every day. In this sense, I therefore request that a clear legal regime be established. As I said, I am convinced of my innocence – and you will soon see it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8353	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8375	Mr President. Highly esteemed Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A urgent request in the Connex with the Examining Committee was announced. 47 questions were raised to Ms Mag. Bandion-Ortner asked questions that were largely related to the issues that happened far before their term of office. These 47 questions have been answered professionally by the Minister for Justice, and they have been answered in detail. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the first results of our Committee of Inquiry are already visible: An anti-corruption state attorney has been established, and it is already working. However, today's urgent request also reflects a number of situations and actions in the Committee, as the model is: Hold the thief! If the opposition has problems when individual Members have problems, then the attempt will be made to delegate this debt. It is particularly remarkable if the Greens, who are mostly a data protector here, by a Member of this House, entrust their own data researcher to be interested in things of a politically co-applicant party – and that to an extent that I do not consider to be acceptable. As a result, this honourable Member wants to make us believe that he has actually hit this gentleman so simply by chance and has never been informed or was able to expect it to be a criminal official! – This is not very credible, Mr Oillinger. I find it particularly ‘interesting’ to act in the investigative committee, especially in the consultation of prosecutors, and there to deal with their displeasure about their own situation, their own state of affairs, so to speak. But I also strongly reject the fact that in this hall one of my predecessors announced that the public prosecutorship can be compared to a “augias stable”. – Such a statement must be rejected; that is not acceptable! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we must learn from this situation. We are doing – I am not doing well with Otto Pendl – if we use a committee of inquiry in such a form, because then there is simply no credibility in important things. Therefore, we would do well to keep a mirror ourselves and to deal with this subject more seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8430	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8451	Mr President. Ministers! High house! The actual correction of Mr Westenthaler from the past has clearly and clearly shown that it would be very, very important in the sense of political hygiene if the persons concerned were not members of an investigation committee. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Westenthaler, I told you that you had been informed about this data collection in February, but then you were beaten here in the House of Wirbel in July. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the next nonsense!]] You must be corrected for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8497	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8518	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your interesting contributions today; these two, three hours were really exciting for me. Several times today it has been mentioned that there are currently very many scandals in Austria. – To this end: Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, because Austrian justice will carefully consider whether these scandals have criminal relevance. However, the following must also be said: Not every behavior that is not desired in society is the responsibility of prosecutors and courts. And one more thing: There are 600 000 ads per year to be handled by a total of 450 prosecutors and district lawyers. I mean, that's really a remarkable achievement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8556	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I invite you to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr Amon, on the first measures taken on the basis of the findings of the Committee of Inquiry on the investigation of hearing and influence measures in the field of Parliament. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask you for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 53.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on information on the Spittel Examining Committee. If you join him, I'll ask for a sign. – This request does not take place in the majority of cases. He is therefore rejected. [[14:37:03]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-11-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8614	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 840/A to 851/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3556/J to 3590/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 18. November 2009, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, following this meeting, numerous committee meetings are taking place, with the agendas for Members. The suspended meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs will also be resumed in local VIII. The sitting is closed.
