ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e4350	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 35. Meeting of the National Council. [[09:00:20]] Meeting of the ordinary meeting 2009/2010
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e4375	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 27. In accordance with Article 28(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act the National Council for the 8th. September 2009 at the ordinary 2009/2010 meeting of XXIV. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. This meeting was based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocol of 34. Meeting of 1. In September 2009, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Grossmann, Mag. Cortolezis-Schlager, Praßl, Tamandel, Dr. Haimbuchner, Strache, Themessl, Haubner Ursula, Brosz, Dr. Grünewald and Mag. Schwentner. [[09:00:37]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e4411	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e4601	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure asked for the written question to be put at the beginning of the sitting 2987/J by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen to Mr Bundeskanzler on 'Solarwend Now! Green jobs through green energy are to be dealt with urgently. [[09:01:11]] Re-election of members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee within the meaning of Section 9 of the Financial Constitution Act 1948
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e4631	We shall go into the agenda and come to its only point at once. The re-election of the members and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee to be sent by the National Council within the meaning of Section 9 of the Financial Constitution Act 1948 must be carried out due to a change in the strength ratio of the clubs notified to me. The number of members to be sent by the National Council or replacement members shall be 13. In accordance with the principles of the proportional election, SPÖ 5, the ÖVP 4, the FPÖ 2 members and replacement members, as well as the BZÖ and the Greens, each one member and one replacement member. I now have the following proposals: as members: from the SPÖ Club: Franz Kirchgatterer, Elmar Mayer, Walter Schopf, Peter Duster, Gerhard Steier; from the ÖVP-Klub: Jakob Auer, Mag. Bernd Schönegger, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Gabriele Tamandl; from the FPÖ Club: Bernhard Themessl, Lutz Weinzinger; from BZÖ-Klub: Josef Bucher; from the Green Club: May. Werner Kogler; as replacement members: from the SPÖ Club: Wilhelm Haberzettl, Gerhard Köfer, Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, Stefan Prehauser, Mag. Joseph Auer; from the ÖVP-Klub: Wolfgang Großruck, Ing. Norbert Kapeller, Ing. Hermann Schultes, Konrad Steindl; from the FPÖ Club: Alois Grastaur, Anneliese Kitzmüller; from BZÖ-Klub: May. Ewald Stadler; from the Green Club: Dr. Ruperta Lichtenecker. These Members would be elected. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the election of these Members, as I have announced them, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. That's where the choice has been made. The call for urgent request will be made at 12 noon, regardless of the date of entry into the agenda. This is so coordinated between the political groups. The meeting will be held live by ORF from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. to 3 p.m. I'll interrupt the meeting until noon. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e4833	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. [[12:00:15]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on "Solarwend Now! Green jobs by green energy (2987/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e4869	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 2987/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e5234	I give Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek as the first questioner to justify the urgent request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e5257	Madam President. - Dear Members! [[Unrest in the hall.]] It's still a bit restless, so I'll wait for everyone to sit down. Nice to see you all again! Inexorably and stubbornly, the greens are working for an energy transition, for a solar turnaround – and so is today in this special session. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to put a quote from President Obama to the top, which I think is worthy of thought: [[Abg. Weinzinger:... Leiterfigur!]] The nation that leads in the development of a clean energy economy will be the nation that is the world economy of the 21st century. ==References== [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have discussed the crisis in great detail throughout the last year, the impact of the crisis, economic data and rescue packages. Economic researchers are now forecasting a slight recovery, but there will be no recovery in the labour market. And this is probably the most bitter effect of the economic crisis at all, namely that a very large number of people have no work, no work is found. And the peak of unemployment will only be reached next year, an unemployment which has not occurred at such a record level in Austria since 1946. This is a very important sign for all of us to do everything, to really do everything and to try and remember everything that can help to combat unemployment, including for you, Federal Chancellor, and also for the SPÖ in the government. This biggest crisis for 80 years has started massive rethinking in many countries. Many countries have tied their economic packages differently, have set different priorities, have reorientated. What the Federal Government has so far been guilty of, this is to indicate a certain direction: What else will be after the economic crisis? Where will things be different? What new rules will be followed? And will the green technologies, the green jobs, at last take the path that other countries are already taking? This is also the big question to you, Mr Bundeskanzler – you are now directing the Austrian ship –: What are really the consequences for you from the crisis? Dive through, then continue as before? Perhaps you don't have a plan, either. This is, of course, a legitimate position which you do not yet know how it will continue. Or have you chosen new ways? I think it's time to leave the exodus paths and take new paths. And we're giving you a "diver" for this today if you want to say it that works very well in many countries. If you don't pick this up, it would be, I think, time to argue once, why you don't want to take this path of green jobs, green jobs, which works very well in so many countries, including Upper Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Many countries are already going this way, whether this is the US or Japan, whether it is South Korea, including the Czech Republic, our neighbouring country, in the meantime. In the European Union as a whole, there are now more jobs in environmental technology than in the European nuclear industry. [[Abg. Amon: A delegation from South Korea was just there and asked ourselves...!]] A brief call from Mr Amon, who says that the South Koreans had asked us how great Austria is. I can only meet him: In its investment package in the OECD ranking, South Korea has made 80 percent of its investments in green technology, especially educational investment, something that, I believe, is also very much at your heart, and above all really new jobs in the perspective. And that's okay, you can say here, too, if the South Koreans make something positive. So: Japan, South Korea, the USA, above all, also our neighbouring countries are going the way I have pointed out, but in Austria, as far as recent years are concerned, we have a real emergency situation, an acute emergency situation in the autumn as regards renewable energy sources and eco-jobs. WIFO and Research Institute describe this as follows: With us most of the economic promotion in concrete-keynesianism, i.e. in old technologies, goes into old projects; and it is not taking the opportunity to take new ways. That is why we are dealing with you today, stubbornly and tirelessly. [[Continued unrest in the hall.]] – Maybe you can get a little bit of rest anyway. I know a lot of people didn't see each other over the summer months, they weren't all at the special meeting. But maybe you could be a little calmer so I don't have to scream like that. Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I describe once again our goal, our vision: the energy turnaround, the solar turnaround, because I still feel that it has not reached 100 percent in your minds. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: They don't listen at all!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Thank you. We want Austria to be energy independent in the medium term, that Austria will be able to rely solely on domestic renewable energy sources in the heat supply sector, in the households, in industry, in the electricity sector, and that this will not only create new jobs, but also ensure security, price security and stability, but will also create a certain serenity among the population, which will then no longer need to look at Russia with concern about the political conditions there, or perhaps in Iran, because we are dependent on Iranian gas or Russian gas. That's our vision! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And we would like to invite you to take this path seriously. The Minister of Economic Affairs said yesterday that it was all too expensive. The opposite question could be asked: too expensive for what? For the banking packages worldwide, thousands of billions have been made available across Europe! Someone asked: Is that too expensive? – No, but it was only about: Is that necessary or not necessary now? It's the same with the energy turnaround. The energy transition is necessary, and such banal questions as: Is that too expensive? are wrong, but the question is: [[Congratulation with the Greens]] How do we manage it and in what time period? What works in small sizes can also work in large sizes. And here I always like to refer to the municipality of Güssing – there are also a few Burgenish Members in the National Council – which in the mid-1990s was a municipality with an unemployment of 34 percent. The municipal charges – perhaps interesting to some mayors – amounted to 400 000 S, i.e. a mini budget. Meanwhile, Güssing has a budget of several million €. 1 500 jobs were created – an ÖVP mayor; you could learn a lot from this, Mr. Molterer, because he has implemented this model of the Green Energy Turnaround to 100 percent, namely 100 percent heat supply and 100 percent power supply. [[Abg. May. Molterer: A good ÖVP mayor!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: I financed it as an environmental minister at the time!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: I financed it!]] Please, then appeal to your Minister of Economic Affairs for him to make such statements as: I can't! and: It's too expensive! At his own mayor in Güssing, he inquires about how this works, and above all, how successful it works: Stability, independence, security and economic growth! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And why should something that works in small not work in large sizes? But there are also very acute problems, and we would like to discuss them very intensively with you today, Mr Bundeskanzler. I don't know if you can put yourself in a house builder, but I assume. Imagine you've built a new house or You plan one or you have an old house and want to clean it up, you want to make yourself independent after all the debates on security of supply – Russian gas, gas crisis – you might also want a photovoltaic system. You register, there is a promotion of the Republic of Austria, which has been advertised this summer. And then you'll have to meet everyone: Installer, roof cover, electrician, prepare a project, and then sit in front of the computer on a single day in August and have to see within seconds that you can come to the internet and send off the promotion application. It was sold out exactly after two hours of this funding rail of the Republic of Austria! That is, 9,500 people who have been trying to access the Internet at the time to get a promotion have not received this support. And I think that's a cut-off! By the way: There are also people who want to build solar systems, photovoltaic systems and have no access to the Internet. And it is a shame if these people are then sent to the desert over months, over years with finished projects de facto and the Republic of Austria says: There's no more money there! – That was so in the summer of 2009. In the summer of 2008 it was only 17 minutes that you had to be able to send promotion requests on time via the Internet! I think that's deplorable! People who want to take over and invest in the environment in Austria must also have a certain degree of security, and this promotion must not be granted under the Winddog principle “first-come, first-served” – who is fastest on the computer gets this promotion. That's where we have to shoot. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want all the families, the house builders who have decided to build a photovoltaic plant, to take money into their hands, to get a promotion, and it is, I believe, neither presumptuous nor expensive, but it is, I believe, a debt we have here towards the Austrian population. Second: We had a similar problem with the old house renovation. A very successful rehabilitation check for farms, for house builders – sold out completely even in July! The Minister of Economic Affairs has still praised this and said that this €100 million added value to €650 million. In fact, this is more than a zero-sum game, but also a proper income for the Republic in taxes, in value added, and at least 7 000 jobs could be created. Why this should no longer work for the second half of the year, why this should be too expensive at once – with all the positive effects! –, I don't understand. You might be able to explain that. This is the second thing we should solve. I want all the families who have decided to rebuild their old house to receive support from the Republic and do not have to wait for years and months again. There should also be support for these 10,000 homes. – This would also be one of our conditions for consenting to the new eco electricity law. And a third point – a real mourning game in Austria –: Can anyone of you, who opposes that we are making a new eco electricity law in Austria, explain to me why the Austrian households pay as much as the German households, namely 36 € per year, and in Germany thousands and thousands of eco electricity plants, windwheel and biomass plants are being built, but no more in Austria? Is there anything wrong? The Austrian law is extremely ineffective, does not work, does not grasp, and we leave thousands of jobs on the streets. Due to the long-standing resistance – and this is above all a matter that the ÖVP has to clarify – of certain circles of the industry to really go in here offensively, because of this long-standing resistance we are also threatening to lose the connection internationally. That's 280 000 jobs in Germany – that's a nice number! And we want a new law, we also want to introduce this successful model in Austria. This should be possible at the latest next year to make use of these opportunities. Interesting again is the statement of the Minister for Economic Affairs: It's all too expensive, the greens just want photovoltaics, we'd rather put on wind and biomass! – We can still talk about photovoltaics, but you do not rely on wind and biomass either. Heuer wasn't built a single windwheel, last year it was seven, and last year it was ten. That's garden dwarf level, but that's not an economic strategy, that's definitely not an economic strategy! Now on the keyword water; I also like to say something about it. They have us as full supporters and allies and above all supporters inside because I see Ruperta Lichtenecker from Upper Austria. Expansion of small hydropower: 100 percent support when the sites fit. Repowering the big locations: They have us 100 percent as supporters and supporters! As far as the ecologically valuable areas – I think we agree – are concerned: Let's leave them! But you can talk about everything else, and you have to talk about everything else so sensiblely that it fits into a big strategy. Dividing them apart, keeping the green current dead, “deadening” the green stream, and the hydropower is the all-healing agent, that will not help. I'm sure that won't help. But you have our support for any reasonable solution, no question. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Minister of Economic Affairs is now here – beautiful. I haven't seen you yet. [[Call at the ÖVP: He was there from the beginning!]] He was there from the beginning? Nice, but I don't have eyes in the back. But it's great that he's there, because to his argument "too expensive!" I would have liked to change two or three words. After all, what does “too expensive ” mean? In what period do you want to create something necessary if you say: We can't do that, it's too expensive, we don't even attack it!Unknown term type: "%s".? Do you have any approach to a strategy? With the current eco electricity law you need 50 years – 50 years! – in order to achieve only the expansion target for the next three, four years in your own law. Completely unattainable! So you should also question yourself a little bit and be able to enter new paths once and, above all, to deal with things that work so wonderfully abroad. It is obviously a problem that if the Germans make something successful, we will take it over. But what is the reason for your opposition to a new law, where the Austrians pay as much as the Germans do? What is really the reason for this completely contradictory, senseless resistance? You may be able to explain this to us today as part of your speech. Mr. Federal Chancellor, but you're the captain. You have to decide, and you should also give your Minister of Economic Affairs instructions on these Green jobs. A page aspect that must not be ignored in all these debates is also your own, your own responsibility. Those who are in Austria against eco electricity, who do not operate massively, are for nuclear power. That's a definite truth. Nuclear imports rise, at our borders doubling even if no Austrian lobbying happens, the number of nuclear miles, as well as the risk. Where is your answer, Federal Chancellor Faymann? Why you don't hear a single sentence from you about the new power plant plans, about environmental impact assessment – environment under quotation marks; this is a personal license of Mochovce III and IV, 160 kilometers from Vienna. The only one who does something is an ex-green in Vienna, namely the colleague Ulli Sima, but that is not enough at Weitem. I think Austria, all of Austria, has earned a lobbying from the Federal Chancellor that these two reactor blocks will not be built! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Krainer: We are happy when you praise the red city councillor!]] Yeah, yeah, I used to work with her, but I'm still saying, That is not enough, Mr Krainer. For example, the Foreign Minister could say that it could also be the Minister for the Environment that the Federal Chancellor himself could have to say: We are, in fact, a country that has been in the government agreement on 'CFC-free Central Europe'!, at the time transferred by many government agreements, but it is done nothing at all, yes, he says, we should not interfere in Slovakia's energy policy. That is, I believe, no answer, Mr. Federal Chancellor! Please try to influence yourself in this question with a little bit of verve and a little passion at least this EIA procedure in a different direction. So we come to the questions, it is actually a request, a urgent request: What about the Green Jobs programme? – A favorite word of this federal government, but thousands of jobs are not started, not created, nor is it tried to think about how to create them. Thousands of house builders are abandoned. Remember to support these house builders, give them extra money for investments, or will you leave them in the rain? Next year, you will bring on a new eco electricity law that brings the German effects that brings jobs that bring security, and you will also have the way of thinking: All this is too expensive, nothing is questioned! change or become Do you continue these? Mr Bundeskanzler, a final example for you as a former Minister of Transport: We invest €5.5 billion in new road projects in the next few years. I emphasize: 5,5 billion €! Someone asks the question: Is that too expensive? Or: Does that make sense? Who's going to drive these streets in 20, 30 years? What future technology do we really invest in? I am saying this because this is not at all questionable, certain “cars”, which have always been made where money has always been put, have put a lot of money into it. Is it really legitimate to say: These 100 million for the house builders are too expensive!Unknown term type: "%s".? Is that still legitimate? I say no – but you will have to explain that! What is your vision of a new mobility? And will you perhaps invest these five and a half billion once elsewhere: in new technologies, in electric mobility, in solar stations, in public transport? Or do you continue as it was before the crisis, namely business as usual, concrete investments instead of green investment and educational investment? Or do you try to go with us a little bit of the way, Mr. Faymann? In this sense, I hope that the summer has also brought you a certain “light” that you have looked at this booming industry internationally, that you recognize the opportunities that open up in seeing the job opportunities. This is especially wonderful for a Social Democratic Chancellor, I think. And give us proper answers in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e5528	To answer the question, the Federal Chancellor spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e5549	Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can actually very well and very supportively join in many of the points raised by Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig, but I do not miss out on making differences. I would like to start by saying that I spent the evening yesterday in the circle of the Heads of Government at a meeting in Brussels to prepare the G-20 summit. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With a glass of wine! By a glass of "Barroso"!]] It has also played a role in preparing the G-20 summit to discuss how Copenhagen and the European Union's environmental objectives are being implemented internationally. I am very open to say that I feel that, in relation to those commitments, which I will of course say a lot in my reply to the question, and as to which I would also like to mention details of how we meet them – which we have imposed on ourselves in the context of the climate and energy package by 2020 – such as increasing the share of renewable energy to 34 percent – in the European Union, we are now very concerned about whether, as far as the United States is concerned, we are not going to remain alone with these objectives which we have rightly set out in the European Union, but which have also led and will lead to a great many requirements for industry. So there is still a great deal of commitment and commitment needed to avoid the effect that many of us are prophesying that, through the restrictions that we have created and created for the industry and that we have also stated as an objective, we do not remain alone and that a shift of production from Europe to other parts of the world is taking place, then we ourselves buy these products and actually have achieved nothing else in environmental policy than the relocation of the industry away from Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein:... jobs!]] The issue of renewable energy and conditions for industry – and I am sure to say something about transport policy and other key issues – requires a huge effort by the European Union to enforce itself internationally and to establish coordination. I see here a broad determination – far beyond the party borders – of the European Parliament, of the European governments, of the Commission, to bring these objectives, which we have set into an international balance, because someone who is doing the same thing as we have, looks very alone at the front, if he does not succeed in creating a corresponding vote. The preparation of the implementation of international objectives for the G-20 Summit, for Copenhagen, for further international negotiations requires our full effort, and we as Austrians are particularly at the heart of this commitment. I also see broad consensus in the European Union, but the subject has not yet been dealt with, especially if we look at the development of industry and thus the international framework and agreements. I would say that even more about transport policy: First of all, you're right, it's investing in the street, but not subsidized. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No! No, EU-wide...!]] I stay there, the Austrian driver, but also the guests, also the transport companies that are driving through our country, pay for our roads, in several ways: They pay – because the Minister of Finance is known to have some of his income from the mineral oil tax and the corresponding VAT – by refuelling, but they also pay by paying quite specifically, for example in the transport sector, toll and by paying a vignette for the drivers. If this is calculated high, it could be very easy to finance all these investments by transferring the motorway to a private person – and this is what many European countries are doing, but we are not convinced that it is going to do – and it will do all these investments. Mrs Glawischnig, there are even more investments in the next five years, it is €8.6 billion. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This has escaped us!]] These investments would be made immediately by any private person, if that were to be his or his or her own use rates, which would be returned via mineral oil tax, on the one hand, and on the other hand by us via the vignette, in other countries via corresponding direct toll revenue. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: We both have!]] So you should not give the impression that we would build roads and subsidize them from the means of taxation of all, and the money would never come back, but in contrast to other areas, such as the rail, where we pay back 20 percent in large parts, in very few, only in long distance traffic, up to 50 percent, and we have routes where we do not even pay back 5 percent, but which are of great importance to the commuters – in contrast to the rail, where your expression “subvention” would be much more justified – nevertheless, I do not want to hide it to you, for example, it also concerns questions 15 to 16, we will invest € 13.9 billion for railway projects – I can tell you that the car driver is perfectly. On the other hand, I can't count on you in such a complete way that these € 13.9 billion can be somehow financially and remunerated in the foreseeable future, but it's part of our mobility and environmental policy goal to shift, on the one hand, of course, people who want to be mobile, to give the opportunity to be such – in particular commuting – but also, of course, as much as possible from transport from road to rail. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You can't predict it in motorway construction!]] I am also concerned that some time after the additional deficits currently being made in all countries, we will be faced with the question of European policy: Where are we saving? My concern here is that in the TENs, the railways in Europe, the respective governments are slowing down, the savings fund is set up by many, because they do not even have the scope necessary to enforce these high billions of investments. Why do I say that? Because it also shows that in Europe we are very dependent on the implementation of those concepts in transport policy, which are very much related to rail and rail development across Europe. We are also called upon to learn from the crisis and not to start the savings fund after a few years, because it is easiest to cut down there because it is the fastest because it is high amounts and because it is relatively low current resistance. The finance ministers of Europe or the governments of Europe should not put the savings fund exactly where I see the great alternative, namely in transport policy. In the transport sector, transit was the highest for Austria the increase in CO2 taxation. If no alternatives are created in Europe's transport policy, we will certainly not be able to overwhelm all of this to our industry – for the reasons I mentioned earlier, which I do not wish to bring to the meeting again. That is to say, even in the crisis and in the matter of financing the future, these important environmental projects, which lead to CO2 reductions and which are important for climate protection, will be essential for environmental policy. It is important that, for example, the expansion of public transport in agglomerations or the expansion of rail across Europe can continue to be achieved through high investments. This will be a very tough political discussion. In my view, there will be a very strong political debate, namely when it comes to bringing about a Europe-wide budget consolidation and the question at which corner, at what end and in what area this is actually happening. Therefore, I fully support your concern that environmental policy and climate protection as common objectives during the crisis and after the crisis are so important, because there will be a great deal of effort in the international field, in the area of the European Union, in the industrial sector and in the transport sector and because the countercurrents, the others, those who are different, will gain weight. [[Call the Greens: What are you doing?]] What are we doing? – We remain in our investments even in economically difficult times, for example in expanding the southern route, but also in expanding many small projects, in many projects in the agglomerations, including from our expenses in the plan, yes, we even increase expenditure in our country. The Minister for Infrastructure could list you even more in detail than is possible in the context of the answer to the question, as we are in a situation where, through the economic crisis, we truly have many other needs, yet this expansion of the rail, this expansion of public transport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can point out, when I speak at the European Union level, that we not only want to say and write and announce it, but also that we do it. – That’s worth a lot in the argument, and there’s a lot of strength for the argument if you can provide the proof that you’re holding on to it as well. In the same way, I am proud that we do not produce nuclear energy in Austria and do not put it on this path. If I am firmly speaking against Mochovce, against Temelín, even against the expansion of nuclear energy, which is currently being offered in Europe as the great solution in many countries, if the Minister for the Environment or the Minister for Economic Affairs speaks at European level, then we have a good legitimacy because we in Austria have decided not to be nuclear energy in good time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now I know that the answer to 15 serious questions, as I would like to answer questions, is not possible in detail for reasons of time and because of the requirements of the President. I am also willing to answer everything in writing or in the context of further discussions, and I will also be sure to complement my answer with many other options for discussion. I would, however, like to address a few things in detail, even to the danger that something or other will become technical. The share of renewable energy in total energy supply is 25.8 percent in Austria. This means that in Europe only Sweden, Latvia and Finland are in front of us. Now you have to say, anyway, at least three are better. I've always said this on the train: If Switzerland is better, we don't look back, we look forward. I just wanted to say in the middle of the order what the position is, so we're in fourth place. We set ourselves a very committed goal with 34 percent by 2020. If we do not want to bring social tolerance – that is, how much it pays the consumer and how much it is reasonable for the consumer – into a situation where we will still be talking about it – this goal is truly very committed and also needs a lot of European support, because in a country alone such objectives are only very difficult to implement without corresponding international measures, because, especially in environmental policy and in its context, these international rules play such a major and important role. We now rely very strongly on hydropower, also on small hydropower plants, and on wind energy. I can also say it again in numbers: In 2008, € 252 million was spent on renewable energy support, with a majority spent on biomass – € 142 million –, the rest for biogas – € 61 million, wind power – € 42 million – and photovoltaics – € 9 million. They know the 2009 eco-current report, which then calculates it down to the cent, for example in hydropower or wind energy, and also the corresponding comparisons, which always show very much in favor of hydropower, which is achieved with the respective use. But I am convinced, of course, that money spent, for example in solar energy, in wind power and in other areas of research and development, is well-invested money, as someone who is very interested and has also participated in it in concrete terms – as a minister and now also as a responsible in the government. We say that we are not currently competitive in prices, but through research and development and also through exemplary projects, this technology will have a medium and long-term future and can also be expected economically. I therefore strongly support many expenditures in the field of research and development in particular in this area, including in the economic programme with all the employment effects associated with it, although I know that many of these projects that we finance today are purely non-competitive. They are because they belong to the future and because our contribution to the fact that they really belong to the future is actually to be sought in this support. Well, what does that mean for the eco electricity law and the novels that we are soon allowed to consult in this House? We already have a proposal – the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Economic Affairs has already drawn up a proposal. Now the Chamber of Labour – not only the Chamber of Workers, but I can and must name it here as a representative of interest who naturally has to pay attention to what has finally happened to the consumer at extra cost – is that the burden of a household from promoting eco electricity is currently on average 33 € per year. Now we have agreed to allow further money in the form of a reform in the form of a framework in the direction that we all call for – in other words, in the direction of renewable energy. However, to allow for this means that the budget will also be included in the Eco electricity Act in addition to the amounts that are spent in the economic package in the field of research and development. There is the claim that you can take an example in the Ecostrom Act to other countries, this €33 per year, which may amount to €35 to 36 per year with our additional novelle – converted for a household – also double, triple, triple – according to the motto: why not, if it is the right direction! – what I thought was socially unbearable! I therefore believe that the way, which means that we are reforming something concrete to promote more renewable energy, to support more of all these projects and to allow more of the framework conditions, is correct, but it has the limits where the limits of fiscal burden lie. I am convinced that in connection with the novel to the Ecostrom Act this will still be a fierce discussion, according to the motto: For one, these 33 to 35 € are already too much and irresistible, and others will say it is the right way, and perhaps even propose a further reinforcement. I would just like to say that because it is not a question of going with courage in a direction that, at the end of the day, households cannot afford. That's not a question of courage. It is a question of courage to follow this path with great commitment, to explore the possibilities which are also socially acceptable and responsible, and then to push forward the corresponding laws and laws here in this House – and we do so too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The importance of the Green Jobs – 105 000 according to Statistics Austria – and their potential by 2020 – the Ministry of the Environment mentions a number of 75 000 additional persons in this The area can be occupied – supported by figures that demonstrate without a doubt that the funds for the economic packages, the funding we create in this area, have been created and amplified correctly. But let me say something about heat recovery – the subject then comes in one of the questions anyway – to say something: For 13 years I was responsible for the residential construction in Vienna, and for the heat renovation there is actually the housing promotion. I find it very fine and have contributed to the fact that we have also put on a check, which is of course a support to the house builder in individual cases, and I am also always in favour of investing in such actions exemplaryly – as a good example, as a pilot project, as a project to stimulate something – also at the federal level. But in fact, the promotion of housing – I know very well that the Minister of Finance has concluded agreement with the countries in the last financial compensatory negotiations, which, of course, they can always remember and can report very differently on what has become of these agreements – but in fact, the promotion of housing is responsible for bringing the house builders mentioned by you and the thermal renovation in multi-storey housing to the point of keeping renewable energy in motion. In Vienna, it would not be affected by any second house of urban renewal and thus also by energy efficiency and many of them also by alternative and therefore very meaningful concepts, if not up to 80 percent of taxpayers would pay. It would be socially unbearable if the people who live in an old founding house or post-war house, even for this energy efficiency, which brings the most – of course, there is often a shear of 1 to 10 in the energy consumption of a house that was built in the 1960s, often even into the 1970s and only quite further back, and what is technically possible today. To close this gap at the expense of the tenants, the tenant wallet, is not possible in these houses, because this would not be socially acceptable at all. This is why investments for these very concrete environmental measures go to support up to 80 percent – but there is support for this! I think we can be proud at the federal level of our projects, which work well so far, and we will also be strengthening them again and again, but we must not overlook the fact that this is about the promotion of housing and also about the memory of joint decisions in the financial settlement negotiations and their interaction. I therefore also see here in the implementation a close cooperation with the countries which have actually committed themselves to this by means of housing development. Question 3 refers to the energy strategy. They know that the energy strategy of environmental and economic ministers is being developed. There is a clear mandate, but involving countries, communities, social partners, interested groups; there is a need for a broad approach. You have addressed this question to me. It is also good that I have the opportunity to take a position here on these key points, but all the details that are necessary for this energy strategy, which are prepared by the two ministers present here and whose ministries to achieve the objective of 34 percent renewable energy, both can answer much better than I do. I have already said something about feed-in tariffs, which is from the point of view of taking account of the feasibility of the consumer. They then ask how many wind turbines or increases there are, for example, in the field of photovoltaics. – At the end of 2008 190 wind turbines and 6 634 photovoltaic systems were in operation. In the field of photovoltaics, this means an increase of 1 265 to 6 634 installations from 2002 to 2008. I can also list this precisely for biomass and for other examples of geothermal systems; of course also for other areas, such as micro-water power. The Ekostromgesetz-Novelle, which we propose, is to adapt annually... – Already, but we are increasing the possibilities in this law... – Well, we will still have opportunity to discuss this in detail. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is not a new novel! We decide the old law!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No! We decide the old law!]] But the meaning of the new law is not only that we are dealing with the question of energy-intensive plants, but also, of course, an extension, but there will still be enough opportunities to speak and answer. I have already told you how much money the individual budget is affected. We have created an expenditure position in the energy fund with €19 million for the direct photovoltaic support, which is difficult to keep, because of course there are many applications in the KLI.EN, and it is therefore not so easy to comply with the objectives and the amounts set out in the economic programme. But this is part of our programme and is also in line with the government programme. To the Mochovce nuclear power plant again. – After all, Austria has prevailed here. This can also be said that the Austrian legal opinion has prevailed here. Austria has always taken the view that the implementation of an EIA is essential. We have also adopted a common position on Mochovce in our government clause, which is expressed not only in our speech reports and in our commitment, of course, within the European Union and abroad, but also with regard to its neighbours, but also in writing, can be read for everyone. Our position aims – in summary – at the interests and safety of the Austrian population and reaffirms that nuclear energy is a dead end, that we rely on renewable energy and, of course, this renewable energy in conjunction with fossil energy and, for example, large projects such as Nabucco see as a future supply with diversification and thus with energy security. So our determined action against border nuclear power plants is indispensable and proper and has therefore played a central role in our government claur. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I have already said a lot about thermal renovation, to the Asfinag and the railway projects. You know – this is what the Kyoto Protocol looks like – when the period ends, of course, there is the possibility of buying out missing quantities. I also know that it is best if nothing is missing because everything itself is implemented. To spread that we can't buy anything anymore, but are then lightened with unimaginable punishments, is not necessary as additional motivation and uncertainty. I believe that we want to achieve with all our strength the objectives that we have set ourselves, are worth all effort, but also sufficient as a motivation, and I am proud that we have such committed goals in environmental policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e5792	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. I call Mr Van der Bellen. 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e5819	Madam President. My speaking time is limited to 10 minutes, but the Federal Chancellor has spoken for almost 40 minutes; he could have expressed himself a little more clearly. But it's just as it is. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: That was important!]] – Yes, for you maybe, less for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e5846	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make it clear: This is a fixed time, it has not been otherwise agreed. And for the time being: Even if we agree differently, we cannot cut off the floor for the members of the government, which is what the Rules of Procedure provide for. That's just for clarification.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e5864	Madam President, the Rules of Procedure are well known to me, but perhaps not to television viewers. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, I am not talking long now about your failure to answer our urgent question: The least questions have been raised, especially because you have been more or less philosophical about general questions for 35 minutes – that was very disappointing for me – and have only become concrete in a few points. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bucher.]] I will try to outline once again for the public in the gallery and outside, so to speak, the philosophy, the sense of motivating this so-called energy change. It is essentially about four points: firstly, to create work, secondly, to protect climate and the environment, thirdly, to preserve our wallets in the medium and longer term, and fourthly, to secure energy supply in Austria. This creation, shooters, beauteous, safe, that is the motivation underlying the keyword of the energy turnaround or the solar turnaround and no green invention. They may be shy about taking words like “Green Technologies”, “Green Jobs” and so on, because it sounds like a green party. There are no such concerns in other countries. In the United States and the United Kingdom, this is a perfectly normal way of expression, so don't get into it! The background is that we are facing a change in the industrial and energy age, a change that seeks the same. I am always comparing this with the transition from the feudal age, from the agricultural economy, to the industrial revolution, to the industrial age. What we have in the coming decades in Austria, in Europe, around the world in front of us is the gradual exit from the so-called fossil energy sources, i.e. coal, oil and gas, to a low-carbon economy as low as possible. In German this means: as far as possible exit from coal, oil and gas – in the sense of climate protection, but also because, against this background, industrial policy, economic policy, is reorientated around the world. Therefore, in Europe, but also in Austria, we must get into these growth sectors in good time. That's what we're fighting so hard for. Both on the ÖVP side, but more still on the SPÖ side, I have missed in recent years that this drama of international economic development is at all perceived. That's really sad. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have pointed out that many of these new technologies, especially in photovoltaics, are not yet commercially usable, i.e. are not independent, are not on their own feet. – No, I say, that is why we are talking about state support so that these new markets also develop in Austria. If these are already commercially viable today, we probably don't need to promote them, do we? Then this question would be dealt with. Today, however, we have the problem that we have many growing innovative companies – all over Austria, especially in Upper Austria, developed in recent years – which already occupy these markets, but which are not supported from the public side, especially from the federal side. I remember a few years ago when I visited the company Solon in Tirol, which builds photovoltaic power plants, solar power plants. I asked the question there: And where is Austria? Your reference project? – Answer: Nowhere! We have a 100% export rate. Our next major reference project is near Würzburg. – A few hundred kilometers to look at this! The philosophy of the ÖVP seems to be: If the Germans are promoting this and these companies have their market anyway in Germany, why do we have to do that? – I think this is extremely shortsighted. Upper Austria is heading another way. The largest solar power plant in Austria will soon be built there, somewhere in the middle between Linz and Attersee; I do not know who the producer will be and if that has already been selected. – That’s what I call modern energy policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, only a few newspaper reports of the last days of Austria, this is really glaring; I do not need to repeat the international labour market situation, Eva Glavischnig has already done this: “Salzburger Nachrichten” of Tuesday: “Magna deletes 4,000 jobs at Opel” in Germany alone, and in Europe there are 10,000 jobs less – in the upper part, in the lower part on this page says: ‘E-mobility as an export hit.’ So within the automotive industry, within the entire mobility something is happening. Please, take this seriously! That's not a green spinning! Electromobility is the train of the future. "Standard" of today, 18. September, first page: “Eco cars are the stars of the international automotive exhibition”. Yes, consume less, hybrid cars and electric cars soon. – That is why we must also be in good time with Austrians in the supply industry in order not to fall asleep in this development. This is not a green spinning plant, ladies and gentlemen, especially the SPÖ! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also do not doubt that some of you are also looking at the “economist”, issue 5. September: four pages on the development of electric mobility in the passenger cars. Four pages in the “economist”! – Do you know how often it happens that a topic is taken so seriously there? And you're pretending it wasn't us. This is about the jobs of the future, this is about the labour market 2015, 2020, 2050. This is our youth we are discussing here, young people who may soon be entering a job that is still in school. We are talking about the labour market of the future here. In today's "Press" – however paid advertisement – Minister Bures and Minister Mitterlehner emphasize the importance of innovations, new technologies. Bures first mentions energy and the environment, second, mobility. – Very good, you think. Then five pages are read in the press, Mitterlehner says solar energy is too expensive. The importance of innovation and new technologies is stressed in Sunday's speeches, and when it becomes concrete it is too expensive. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Currently!]] - Right now!Unknown term type: Mr Minister, if we wait five, ten, 15 years, it will not be too expensive, but others will have occupied the markets. That's the problem. I'm sorry, but you're sleeping! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] “Standard” of today: ‘Government moves in photovoltaics It shall not be possible to – Great, how do we dominate the markets of the future? That can't be true! Minister Faymann, for thermal renovation, you can read in the Tuesday edition of the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, in prefabricated houses, photovoltaic cells will be installed in the roof and wall elements in the future. – This is a private initiative! The federal government once decided to support it, and then it ended. Don't call the countries! The Federal Government has allowed the countries to spend these funds for very different purposes. It was the covenant that allowed it. Now you complain that the countries are so hesitant. This does not apply to all countries. So if we talk about it, then it is to say that Vorarlberg and Upper Austria are miles ahead of Vienna. Sure! – We have campaign, yes, sure! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: Finally we are in the election campaign!]] I can only recommend you if you bring the tag to read Mr Rudi Anschhober's programme. That's a good election fight. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A bad election campaign is quite different. Who's missing here today? – Mr Strache, Mr Klubobmann of FPÖ, and Mr Haimbuchner! What are they doing? They are not interested in solar transition, in modern energy policy, but they make their small appearances with music and speeches in four municipalities in Upper Austria. Nothing against the wind music – in the program is everywhere: Music, talking from time to time – but is that more important than modern energy policy? Two members of the FPÖ are in favour of a special meeting of the National Council because they are taking part in such a meeting? [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: You're also making an election campaign!]] If we are already campaigning, then in the matter and yet not through performances at the village square and at the town square! I think that's bad for you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Again: We need new answers in the field of electricity, we need room heating, we need new answers to this development in mobility, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ! This is where labour markets of the future are created, where jobs of the future are created. It's also very arrogance in education. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – Yes, 10 minutes are just right enough for an opposition speaker. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Would you have used them better, the 10 minutes!]] I know the Rules of Procedure, Madam President. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6003	Mr Ddr. has made an actual correction. Royal Courter. – You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Two minutes' speaking time is still going on until we interrupt the sitting for a quarter of an hour. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6027	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! High house! I am referring to an actual correction of Mr Bundeskanzler's statement. He said that we in Austria have a so-called vignette toad system, and in other countries there are so-called special toad systems. - That's not right! I would like to correct: We have both systems in Austria and especially in Tyrol. In Tyrol there is the vignette toll system and special tomb systems. On the A 13, the Brenner motorway, on the Arlberg expressway, on the Felber Tauern and many other passways, where the Tyroleans drive, they have to pay toll. If 200 000 Tyroleans are affected each year with...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6051	Mr President, this is no longer an actual correction, the first part was one. - Thank you. [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Dr. Königshofer.]] I am therefore interrupting the sitting until 1.15 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6096	I'll start the interrupted session again. Mr Katzian spoke with a desired speaking time of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6126	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mr. Minister! Professor Van der Bellen – he doesn't seem to be in the hall right now – said earlier that the Federal Chancellor had spoken for 40 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen, just entering the meeting room, is waving by hand.]] He's back. Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake. – Obviously you have the speaking time of Mr Bundeskanzler and Mrs Dr. Counted glavishly, for the Federal Chancellor had only spoken for 27 minutes. If you have a request with 20 points, where there is actually not a single point below which you can answer with Yes or No, but where you have to say something about it, I find 27 minutes in order. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: He did not answer a single point!]] You can do that as a Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] The question, however, is whether the Federal Chancellor has merely “philosophized” or whether he has tried to present a political view, namely that it is not only a matter of directing the focus on a particular branch of renewable energy, but also of using the resources we make available where the best impact is achieved. [[Abg. Scheibner: If you say so!]] When it comes to determining where the best impact will be achieved, it is important to look at where to achieve the best possible objectives in the field of renewable energy and, on the other hand, to look at where the best impact can be achieved with regard to the employment of workers and also with regard to the quality of employment of the same. This means that it is the best possible effect to achieve renewable energy targets, but also to generate new jobs. I would therefore like to focus on this because, in recent times, the sound of shawls can be heard everywhere, that we have already overcome the crisis and would have gone up again, but one can see that we still have great problems. Thus, the number of unemployed in our country is increasing again, and this is why it is about looking at the use of funds to generate new jobs or to create new jobs. In the same way, I understood the “herum philosopher” of the Federal Chancellor, and I think that is very well. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Hörl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important not to give the impression that it is now in the debate on the preparation of the decision-making of the eco electricity law, which is to take place next week, to make a new eco electricity law. I would like to remind you that the House adopted an eco electricity law in 2008, and it is now after we have taken a very long path, in particular through the lengthy examination procedure of the European Commission, especially to take account of what the European Commission has given to opinions. In fact, we have to go here and deal with the points that are criticized in it accordingly. You can believe me and also all of us from the Social Democrats that we would have been very happy if this opinion had come from Brussels earlier. I have appealed to the Federal Government several times in speeches in this House, as it is to be pressured accordingly. This statement has finally arrived in summer, and I assume that we will make the necessary repairs next week at the meeting of the National Council. But I do not think it is possible to do so. We want to put it, are various accusations that have been raised in recent times, namely that there would be anyone blocking the decision-making of the Eco electricity Act or that it would be the SPÖ that would prevent a rapid solution. I believe – and this is also evident – that we have done everything we can to find a quick solution to the problem of eco-electrics law as quickly as possible. They all know that this is a very complex matter, where an agreement with several political parties is needed in order to obtain the corresponding constitutional majority. Therefore, one cannot say that we simply blocked this, but quite the contrary: We want a rapid implementation of the Eco electricity Act, because we are convinced that this is the prerequisite for taking further important steps in the field of renewable energy. They all know that the Austrian economy, especially industry, is facing major challenges. We have an economic crisis that is not over. We therefore very much welcome the fact that the eco-electric power law to be adopted will also provide an opportunity to relieve industry and to implement the planned support services, which will partially replace the eco-electric costs to be borne by it. This will not be as much as it was originally planned by the industrial cover, but I think that the possibilities that Brussels has created here have been and will be exploited accordingly by us. I would still like to replicate what Mr Van der Bellen said, because that is very, very important to me. It is clear that the Austrian industry is in structural change. Industry will in no way be like it was before the great crisis. The question will therefore be: How can we help both from politics and from the activities we are setting up on the ground to support this structural change? I mean, this is a very important process we need to look at. I do not want workers to get under the wheels in this structural change. I would like us to create appropriate framework conditions, including with a view to further qualification of those colleagues who can no longer work in the old or existing industries to create new industrial jobs in green jobs – or whatever we want to call them. This must be a priority, for which we want to work in the future too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point where it was thought that the European Commission would have amendments was the so-called raw material surcharge. There was no objection to the discussions before the summer. [[Abg. Mr Hörl: Madam President! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake. Talk time!]] That is why, from my point of view, this can be put into effect at least in the course of the decision-making process next week, as decided in the 2008 Ecostromgesetz-Novelle. However, I would like to point out that surcharges can only be paid if there are proven increases in raw material prices. I believe that all the measures contained in this law must be assessed according to how they will prove themselves in practice. And if the framework conditions are to be changed in this respect, then there is a need for a new discussion here in the House. I believe that this intense discussion must also relate to the photovoltaic installations and their promotion. The urgent request mentions 100 million € of photovoltaic promotion so that 1,000 new jobs can be created, i.e. a job would be supported by 100 000 €. I have already said a few words about the jobs: Of course, the creation and safeguarding of jobs is a central concern, but I would also like to call on everyone not only to speak of quantity, but also to ensure that we look at the quality of what jobs it is about. I mean that not only from actual activity, but also from the social context. We have some indications that in various companies that are very much praised because they have created green jobs, minimum labour standards are not complied with. We are in the process of checking this, because a green job is not automatically also a good job. We want to have good jobs, we want jobs with quality, where social security also takes place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially in times of crisis, an efficient use of resources is the command of the hour. We must not forget that the cost of eco-electric production must be paid by the general public of electricity customers. Not least, we need to consider how we use these resources as effectively as possible. Neither industry nor household customers can face additional burdens in times of crisis. It has already been pointed out that today an average household has to bear more than €30 per year in cost of eco electricity promotion. Each increase in funds also leads to an increase in the burden on the domestic economy and households, because the money has to come somewhere and it is ultimately financed by the electricity price. I believe that the Eco electricity Act is a very, very important part to implement the 20-20-20 objectives of the European Union which we have committed ourselves to. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In this context, I am very pleased that, on the initiative of social democracy, it was possible to increase the planned funds for district heating and cooling, because this, in addition to savings in CO2 emissions, also generates domestic value added and creates jobs. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6239	Mr Bartenstein has now come to speak. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6260	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is true that photovoltaics is probably the cleanest form of electricity generation, but also the most expensive form of electricity generation. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But not for long!]] And this ambivalence has to be put in place, you can't get around, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. You also have to note from the Green Group that in the field of power supply photovoltaics so far plays a very small role, just 0.3 promills of Austrian electricity consumption can be covered by photovoltaics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I know that we are expecting a cost-degression, a cost reduction over the next few years, which is already progressing. Today, a kilowatt hour of electricity from photovoltaics costs about 30 cents. [[Abg. Oils: And nuclear energy?]] I am the first to praise it once it has been 10 cents and marketability has been achieved, but this must be compared to what is now the cost of generating electricity from hydropower, ladies and gentlemen. That's 5 to 7 cents per kilowatt hour. The wind power is 7 to 9 cents per kilowatt hour. We do not come around this discussion, I am very much with Mr Katzian. We have available resources, electricity customers have a budget available, and this should be used in a meaningful and optimal manner – in the interests of the environment, but also in such a way that it is socially and customer-friendly. Not even sun for direct energy generation is now as fully in the direction of photovoltaics as optimal, but it is just like that when I produce hot water with sun, the energy output is eight times as high as when I get electricity from it. It is precisely because Güssing was mentioned and Güssing was generously promoted from federal funds under Minister Molterer and many others: This is a model example. There are also Austria's only chip factory, High Tech Electronics, which manufactures chips that actually generate electricity from solar energy. Manufacturers such as solos, suppliers such as Fronius and Isovolta do great things, but the actual current is produced in these chips. Ladies and gentlemen, they naturally feel the global price decline. What benefits the electricity customers then feel very, very quickly. I think that we should make the discussion so messy – and I would like to invite the Greens to consider: Where does the biggest CO2 savings look? What technology can I really do with climate protection? What does wind energy bring to me, for example, in terms of CO2 savings? – The saved tonne costs 60 to 100 €; CO2 certificates are available on the market for 15 to 20 €. As the photovoltaic must already be liked, that is said today costs a saved ton of CO2 from photovoltaics to say and write 1 300 €! Because you, Mrs. Glavischnig, have started with an Obama quote, I am going to tell you the following: What America's President said in June is one thing, but I'm long enough to have experienced another democratic president, Bill Clinton, who, on the other hand, and at the time, has to be said, signed the Kyoto Protocol. Very publicly effective! Just like that: A democratically dominated congress did not ratify this. And listen to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic! Unfortunately, he's not here anymore. [[Call the SPÖ: Oh yes!]] - He's back. [[Abg. Riepl: Always look closely!]] – I have not yet been given the gift of the view to the rear. And it is better, anyway, to look forward in politics towards Members, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is like “By Faymann” on stage!]] But what the Federal Chancellor of Europe has reported is about what I feared. “The proof of the pudding is in the eating.” – Andreas Khol always said that. Let us wait for what the Americans and therefore President Obama really do in Copenhagen, what they commit themselves to! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes!]] And if they comply with what they have announced politically – wonderful; but I believe it only when the signature and the ratification are there. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the Greens and your urgent request and your special meeting. A little measure with two dimensions. I also have to make this accusation a mother who has just returned from two months of baby break. We welcome you. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig, why not use the word “hydropower” once in your urgent request? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Because it's marketable! You don't have to promote it!]] Why do you forget the hydropower master plan? – You know very well that the Ekostromgesetz-Novelle, which is in itself decided here – that’s what Katzian said – that the... – No excitement just because you’re caught! [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] That's how it is in politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Why don't you forget the 3 million tons of CO2 saved by the hydropower master plan, and just rely on photovoltaics and the rest of the eco electricity? - That's what makes you look deep. You're not honest. Why do you forget the jobs that are at stake in the energy-intensive industry if we do not provide for suspension measures? – I am very much in favour of talking about green jobs. I see a great chance there. And that with the structural change that can and should play a leading role in the new banks of the world industry with the start, but not for the price that one is simply willing to ship jobs in the energy-intensive industry in reality towards the Far East. Therefore: Yes to appropriate suspension measures for industry. – Also say about this Not a word, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They're not realistic either. This shows that it is not necessarily far away with the expertise either. We have therefore agreed that we increase the annual additional funding volume from € 17 million to € 21 million. Many were not quite happy when we made 21 million euros. Dr. Schussel and others can remember that. You say now fluffy, not 21 million €, but 50 million € we make. – Then tell the Austrians that this amounted to €3 billion in additional costs for electricity customers over 15 years. 3 billion € higher electricity costs! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Explain to me why it works in Germany! They are followers of the plan economy!]] Also tell them that the electricity bill in terms of ecostrom no longer costs € 35 per year, but probably the double or even the triple. And then we're where Faymann said earlier, that's probably the limit of social tolerance. And you are a little ill-informed, too, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. One of your criticisms is that we are too far behind in terms of photovoltaic construction. - We're not that bad on the road. We are 9. in Europe in terms of photovoltaic construction, we are 9. in terms of expansion in 2008. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Exclusively Upper Austria!]] So, upper middle field, that's something I can already accept. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Final light!]] You should recognize them by the figures, says a Chinese proverb, honourable Member. And I'd like to close it now. In your request, the photovoltaic construction made up 3 megawatts last year, how bad it would be. – I can correct you, he was at least 7 megawatts, because you have unfortunately forgotten the almost 4 megawatts that have been expanded over the KLI.EN funding. So a little more knowledge, if you ask for a special meeting of the National Council, would not be bad either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6458	Now comes Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6481	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Where's Strache?]] Again and again, the argument is that renewable energy is particularly expensive and that every single household would be heavily burdened if we were to put more emphasis on renewable energy. Now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: 1 000 € each Austrian pays abroad per year to buy fossil energy sources. 1 000 €! We therefore finance the prosperity of the oil exporting countries. And we do not create jobs in Austria. The Federal Chancellor has argued that ecostrom costs every household in Austria about €30 per year – in addition. [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: In addition!]] I say once again: 1 000 € we pay only for fossil energy sources abroad – and not per household, but per head and nose. That's about €3,000 per household. And if you're reckoning like that, I could say the same thing: Every household in Austria pays €300 to the ÖBB, without even one member driving a meter by train. – I believe that this bill is not permissible. The fact is that we now have to create the transition to renewable energy sources and that we have the best possible conditions here in Austria. About 2015 the network parity will be reality in electricity from photovoltaics. Then electricity from a photovoltaic plant costs as much as electricity from the grid. And it's about preparing our domestic companies on this market. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] What's going to happen? – There is the Renewable Energy Act in the Federal Republic of Germany. There the companies are very active, can gain experience, and the companies in Austria stay on the track. If the market progress occurs in this respect, these companies will be working from Germany to Austria. They will be cheaper, they will have better trained employees. And that's where we have to counter it. We must ensure that our companies also get the means in their hands that are necessary. We are facing a fundamental change in energy policy, which will affect every individual Austrian. Today we are highly dependent on electricity supply companies. We spend a lot of money on mobility. Calculate how many monthly salaries you spend on your car, how much money you need to spend on service and operating costs! All this, ladies and gentlemen, will change fundamentally. And this change means more freedom for each of us, it means that there is more value added in Austria and more jobs if we actually use these positive conditions that we have in our home country. We have biomass to a sufficient extent, 200 000 hectares of broken land in Austria, which can be used. We have God thanks to hydropower. Yes, and we are also for the further, natural expansion of hydropower. I think that's quite, very important. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We still have a lot of potential in the geothermal field. We have excellent companies in the field of wind power and photovoltaics, which now cannot use their potential due to the existing eco electricity law. This energy change, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be stopped. Politics can hinder them, but it is not to stop. It is partly hampered by some national energy suppliers, where political interdependence is very large, partly by the OMV, where also political figures, former government members are active, of which one hears that they have also enriched themselves in recent months through share purchases and stock sales. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: Well, well, well! Watch out! Watch out! It's too far!]] [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: You can't do that!]] – What can you do, Minister Bartenstein? [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: You can't say that!]] If you defend this, Minister Bartenstein, that Mr Ruttenstorfer buys shares from his own company and thus deserves well because a deal with a Hungarian competitor has been blown off then I have no understanding of that, Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Insider business!]] None at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Not for nothing, Mr. Federal Minister, it was in 2006 when you decided with the SPÖ and the BZÖ the old eco electricity law that it would have started the energy policy “bartstone time”. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also an answer at European level, namely the renaissance of nuclear power. This is indeed a dangerous mistake, because you need to know because the costs have been raised again that there are huge costs here too. 20 billion € only for test reactors that have been invested, the Castor transports cost 3.5 billion €, the issue of the final storage is not clarified. And unfortunately, it is the case that we in Austria also import high-scale nuclear power, namely 10 percent. That means we don't have the justification to point our finger at others. As long as we ourselves import nuclear power and are unable to use our renewable sources in such a way that this is not necessary, we have lost any moral justification to point our fingers to other countries. We must also pay attention to this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Temelín, Mochovce – yes, we must make every effort to ensure that these risk reactors no longer present a risk to Austria in the future. But the first step is to end by importing nuclear power into Austria. In my view, particularly harmful was the fact that in the last legislative period we had a climate protection officer – a Mr. Wabl – who had to admit in a newspaper that he himself was referring to nuclear power in the private framework. This is a serious damage to the credibility of Austria in climate change policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen, that great dependence on fossil energy sources? – I have already mentioned what it means for us: We lose a lot of money abroad, 1 000 € per head and nose. We are also responsible for the war in regions where there is oil. Yes, we are also responsible because we invest exactly there. [[Abg. Großruck: That's where the Darabos is responsible!]] Or do you think that the Iraq war would have taken place in this form if there had been no oil there? I don't believe it, and many others don't believe it either. 8 billion euros flow abroad. We could create 100 000 jobs in Austria with this money – 100 000 jobs! – if we were to use these financial resources here in Austria. That is why we need to launch an energy-political rapid fourth hour in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, now here try to make every effort to get back on track, to use hydropower even more than before, to enter the biomass, to use the geothermal system. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Unfortunately, in many areas of Austria there is no depth drilling for the heat pump, because there is a thermal bath nearby. Here, too, you have to think about how to make better use of this potential. We need a renewable energy law according to German model. The cover in the area of clean electricity is an investment barrier. We need a new access to investment promotion. It's not supposed to be a promotion race anymore. Who today decides to take their own money – and a lot of money – in order to buy a piece of freedom with a photovoltaic plant, which also deserves to be supported to a proper extent – but not through a promotion race, but I need to know when I plan an investment: I can expect to be supported – or not. There must be investment security here. Now it's like this: Whoever sits on the computer fastest and tries to submit the promotion as soon as possible, has the best chance to get this promotion as well. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day I would like to address another point which has not yet been mentioned: We must also do something in the field of agriculture. We need to launch a humus offensive, because a large part of the CO2 in the air is bound by the ground. And it should be that a healthy soil absorbs CO2. Today, the soil is CO2. I believe that it is in our interest to pay greater attention to this area as well and to ensure that we also support healthy soil more strongly in Austria than before.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6641	Now comes Mr Mag. Widmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6663	Madam President. High house! Energy policy is an important issue, and we are constantly repeating here in the House. There are successful approaches, there are good applications – the only thing missing here is the implementation competence of this federal government, because hardly anything really happens. What are the best approaches that are still being developed by the Federal Government? - We're all about things. Over a year ago, it was announced: This federal government is making an energy concept. So I don't know who you've been invited to work here. That's all in the starting holes. Translated, creatively designed, nothing has yet been done. We from BZÖ have gone a different way. We have also used the Güssing model and advise ourselves with these experts and create an energy concept ourselves. And we have shown that Austria is in a position to become energy self-sufficient in the foreseeable future, in particular as regards space heat and electricity. And with regard to mobility, the key word is electromobility, where the future will lie. The objective must be to supply Austria with electricity in a sustainable, safe and cost-effective manner. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And this way is feasible! It should not be possible to increase electricity prices if certain savings are realized and reformed, because of certain surpluses, there must be enough money from certain double tracks, and in order to promote the Austrian eco electricity properly. And that's the point: So far, the green side and the FPÖ are considering doing more, that's right, but they have remained guilty of the answers from which we are doing this. [[Call the Greens: Go, please!]] And the government too has remained guilty of this answer. That is why I shall try to list here some examples that we might well implement. The great example – and this is also significant – of the eco electricity law: If you look at the explanations on this, you will find that there is already a fact that this eco electricity law will not be enough to achieve the climate change targets, but also the eco electricity quota targets. You won't make it with this law! That would be enough to reject this law as it stands. However: We're ready to talk. But: What is it for a system if only for recalculation of eco-strom – only for recalculation! – 77 million Schilling from the energy companies in Austria, only to continue to calculate the eco electricity to the customers, the end customers?- Oh, my God! What kind of system is that? – That’s not what Rainer Widmann says, that’s what the E-Control Chief in Austria says. – So: 77 million schilling too much with electricity customers – money you could actually invest in renewable energy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Deputies Riepl and Großruck:Schilling or Euro?]] – Euro! €77 million. I'm doing it very concretely: Every household pays an average of €34 for the eco electricity – we have heard this today. Of this €34, €6 is only for the green electricity to be charged! - Yes, where are we? That's such a return that there's nowhere else. And there you have to say again: Who rules these electricity companies? They are the black and the red capazunders, national leaders who also use their managers there. That's the point. [[Abg. Riepl: At KELAG, or where?]] Take note of this! Stop that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Krainer: At KELAG? – What kind of company is KELAG?]] These are the effects on households. – However, they are much worse in terms of a location factor in Austria when it comes to jobs, Mr. von der SPÖ. The situation among companies is much worse. The company costs around €150 a year in addition – only that the eco electricity is charged! These are things that you have to regulate, which you should also regulate in the Ecostrom Act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] And, Mr Bartenstein, you are still guilty of the answer in this bill. Please, take care of this at last! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Don't take off the little people, the little house owners, so you can secure the basket money for your red and black electricity companies! Don't do that! [[Abg. Großruck: Who is responsible in Carinthia?]] [[Abg. Grosz: Or: the EStAG!]] Another point that is addressed – but also here this government fails – is about more competition. [[Call the SPÖ:The KELAG!]] [[Abg. Krainer: How is KELAG?]] - Listen to me! These are good ideas, even for the SPÖ. If you implement them, then win You may lose your choice once again, because in Upper Austria you will lose the SPÖ's choice! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The other point that has just been raised is the change of supplier to the Competition Accelerating Act. There has been a courageous draft on the Competition Accelerate Act. There is an inside, within three weeks you should be able to change the provider. It brings 60 to 100 € to each household when it changes the electricity – when the change goes fast – and the entrepreneurs save up to 250 €. But what does this government do? – She gets soft knees and does not put it into practice. Next step: We have to support the photovoltaics – it is already done – regardless of the eco electricity law, with direct funding from the KLI.EN, from the climate fund. You've got to pick it up. It has been said several times: If the funds are exhausted within a few minutes, then something goes wrong here. This means adapting, adapting, adapting and adapting the funds in order to make a little further progress in this area as well. Or: Get an efficiency certificate for energy plants! That's still missing. With us, we are encouraged funny and impenetrable. One does not ask whether this plant, which produces renewable energy, is also effective accordingly. Further point: All federal states have funding models – grant models for green electricity or direct subsidies. But it is like herb and beet: one makes it so, the other does it so. It's not an accord. So here, too, I see a great need for action. But one thing this government did: In its programme, as a great “desire” in this government programme, it has anchored the abolition of the 100-watt light bulb. That was “great, ” that was really“ great! ” And if it is now smuggled at the borders, between Germany and Austria and between the Czech Republic and Austria, then They probably put all the power of the police to catch the light bulbs and not the criminals. – That’s not how it can be! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In reality, you are supporting large lobbys, large corporations, the toxic mercury lamps, about which we know they consume as much or at least half of the electricity over the zero conductor, that the savings effect is almost zero. But this has also been used across the EU, and we are looking at how the large electricity companies then say: Well, if that's the case when this energy saving force comes, we'll increase the electricity prices! – I wonder: Where does this government have the answer? The issue of EURATOM, nuclear use has already been addressed. I repeat it again and again: A total of €40 million a year – and you, Mr Bundeskanzler, still owe a clear answer today – and now it is certainly the triple because we will also triple the EU contribution with this government, i.e. almost €120 million a year for EURATOM, only to use cheap, dangerous nuclear scrap tractors in Europe to stay on the grid for longer?- Oh, my God! - That can't be! That's our tax money! Let us take these millions and thus promote renewable energy! Let's also make the electricity price cheaper! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this context, I very much welcome the fact that there are committed citizens, like the group ‘atomstopping’ in Upper Austria, which is now on top of it, to initiate an EURATOM popular desire to ensure the withdrawal of Austria from EURATOM. I am also proud that all the Upper Austrian country parties support this desire, the exit from EURATOM – with a single exception, the Austrian People's Party, for this party does not support it, and I do not understand. You have to ask Mr Pühringer why he does not. It's inconspicuous. Another point would be the housing cooperatives. If we are talking about thermal rehabilitation, Mr President, we are also talking about jobs. The housing cooperatives in Upper Austria have a fortune of more than € 1 billion in reserves – and I say once: also, in part, illegal. These resources could be used – it is your control! – in order to reduce the rents on the one hand and on the other hand drive up the necessary resources to increase and drive forward the thermal renovation – through which we all agree. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Generational Treaty, Mr. Colleague!]] It's much worse for the energy suppliers. In Upper Austria, Energie AG is entering an annual operating result of 150, 160 million euros, Linz AG – a little smaller – 25 to 30 million euros, and the electricity price is not reduced! These are profits – and the little ones are blown off. I'll go even further. From well-informed districts of Upper Austria, from Energie AG, I know that the electricity price next year in Upper Austria will be increased by up to 10 percent after the election – by up to 10 percent! [[the speaker places a panel with this statement in front of him on the speaker's desk]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Where has that been decided?]] I'm going to explain it very easily, it's quite simply explained: It was this ÖVP with these greens who are now yelling so loud, who have carried out this partial privatisation of Energie AG and the banks to which Energie AG has been sold have guaranteed a minimum dividend of €54 million annually, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That's you! That was the ÖVP and that was the Greens! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Yes!]] They're the money that's going to get the little people out of here! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] These are the funds from which the electricity supply providers make capital! One last thing – now I'm going to stop with the energy suppliers – as far as the “inschob-effect” is concerned – I just want to show you a little bit –: [[the speaker places a panel in front of him on the speaker's desk]] In Carinthia we have a total share of renewable energy of 42 percent – in Upper Austria only 30 percent!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6893	Mr President, you have unfortunately already completely exceeded your speaking time. I have to interrupt you. I wanted to approve some conclusions, but there are already whole paragraphs. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Thank you!]] That is why your speaking time is over. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Thank you!]] [[In the case of BZÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. May. Widmann.]] Mr Mitterlehner has now spoken. I'll give it to him. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6944	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have made a urgent request today, and as far as the title is concerned, you should look closely at the words. Your titles: “Solarwend now! Green jobs through green energy’. – According to my language understanding, a turnaround is a perfect turnaround. They also connect this with “now. ” If you look at the figures – I am also a little attached to what has just been said – you can see that Austria has the highest share in electricity across Europe as far as renewable energy is concerned. So we don't need to pick up, but we're top riders! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are where Germany wants to come – because Germany is always being held up as the big factor. We have a share of almost 70 percent, which means we are about five times as strong as Germany. Of course, you also know why this is so: because of course it is related to our water energy, with the use of hydropower. But you did not mention that in your request. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Kogler and Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Ladies and gentlemen, therefore: If you say "now", Professor, I would also have expected a differentiated discussion of the costs now. Because you should also differentiate: We are all aware that solar energy will become more important. However, they should separate them in terms of heat generation on the one hand and electricity generation on the other. [[Abg. Hornek: Very good!]] But they're talking about the generation of electricity! Photovoltaic in the field of electricity generation would mean if you relocate it at today's cost that if you have a budget cost of about 40 to 45 € per month, you will have costs of 170 € per month. That would mean your promotion. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: In Germany it is 36!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Is there a German law?]] And on the other hand: Let us not take the budget, but let us go to the climate change targets. Professor Van der Bellen, do you know that if you look at climate change targets, the costs of avoiding a tonne of CO2 with photovoltaics are highest ten times as high as with wind power? This is uneconomic – but you are a professor of Markoeconomics! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But it's about the future!]] Now I want to take up your thesis, too, because you say: From the point of view of promotion, that must be done for us; it is important that we support the market accordingly! – And now, for example, you see Germany: At €2 billion a year, Germany has the highest level of subsidisation in the field of photovoltaics throughout Europe. What are they doing there? They say they create jobs. Do you know where they created the jobs? – Look Once you reach the industry in Germany: in India and China, which at a third of the cost will result in what Germany is promoting! And do you know why there is this problem? Because the promotion is so high, this creates little cost pressure, as it is convenient to create. What is the problem on the second side: Technology. Have we now reached the technological edge, a real breakthrough in the field of photovoltaics? Now? Because they say, “Now. ” - We didn't reach him. We have the same situation for about five to six years. Therefore: The cost relationship is crucial, it is important. This has nothing to do with the fact that photovoltaics will probably become more important in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen:... wait until...?- Oh, my God!]] But the relationships have to be true. In this context – you know too, it has already been said today –: We have a share of 0.6 percent of total electricity generation in Germany through this funding. Because you just said so small, from 17 million to 21 million, that's nothing: You always have to count on that 13 times, and in the future with the new Ecostrom Act 15 times! That's a sum that comes in each year, 15 years. I would therefore say that it is a considerable promotion that we are taking control of. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has also been said by Mrs Glawischnig: Güssing is energy-autark, why don't we do it – the mayor of Güssing comes from our area – like Güssing? Do you know what the mayor of Güssing argues about, the mayor himself as a project manager? – Austria is not a big güssing! We cannot provide the cities with forest and other things as far as biomass is concerned. If we convert all of this and say we do everything with biomass, then in seven years we don't have a single tree in Austria. Then we do not have the dependence on fossil energy, on this area, but on other countries from which we import. They should therefore also make some adjustments to relations. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's total nonsense!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is far below your level!]] I think that what we're doing to provide a balanced mix is the right way. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's total nonsense! Sorry! Talk to the biomass association!]] I have to tell you that you should do it once! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Talk to the biomass association!]] You should expect it before you say something like that. That's what the mayor of Güssing himself says. Faith You really can say in a big city where you have performance requirements, where the Bundesbahn and also large industrial companies are: Whether the sun shines or not, we don't care, essentially, we are self-sufficient in this way!? – Unfortunately, life does not work that way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Also what is happening to the things just mentioned by the previous speaker, such as the customer situation with the free choice and the like: We now have the third package in the field of the EU, and that will precisely address these points. So don't worry we won't do that. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The question is also: Can't we just give away the lid? If we give the lid away, we'll make the orientation to the photovoltaic anyway. – That’s right, Germany has exactly this problem that there is no cover. But do you know what you're gonna do when you take the lid away? They then drive everyone else out of the funding area, which does not have such a high level of subsidies. You then have biomass, you no longer have wind energy in the relation as we actually want to develop it. I have explicitly missed the topic of water in the statement of your request, you have only responded to my word “water”. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Do you want to promote the large hydropower plants, or what?]] It didn't happen to the water. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, As far as electricity generation is concerned, we have a pioneering role to play, which we will now continue to develop with the Eco electricity Act. But you have on the second side of one: That's the consumer, that's the economy that has to pay for it! This is not given to us, but they have to pay it, so both have to be in a reasonable framework. As you have addressed e-mobility: That's it! We promote and research in the field of what batteries arrive. They should have more reach, they should become cheaper and easier. That's it! In the field of research, we need to provide even greater resources, but not exclusively for the area of subsidies. Therefore, I would ask: When you discuss – Professor, above all I mean, then it's differentiated. Take everything into the total, and not just single vote-related points! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7146	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7176	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister for Economic Affairs! High house! Dear Seers! If you're against green electricity, it's for nuclear power. [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: So simple with the greens?]] In this case, it's so simple. We have an expansion stop on renewable energy in Austria, instead we import nuclear power. We have an expansion stop in renewable energy, so we miss our climate targets. Mr Bartenstein, I think you are the last one to point out to others with your finger, because what you promised in Kyoto is breaking Austria, and that is huge! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I find this to be fatal to the environment, but I believe that it should not be so that we can change it very well, but that it must finally be done. We need to do something about nuclear power. I would like to address the Mochovce nuclear power station where the EIA is now running. Mr Bundeskanzler, it is not enough if you say in the House that we protest against it. You must support and inform the population! We Greens do this, we have prepared opinions on our homepage, which can send everyone and everyone in Austria to express the protest against Mochovce. You must also do something at your level, namely to your colleagues in the government, and I have not heard a peep from you, from the Foreign Minister, even from the Minister of Agriculture, in order to express protest against Mochovce. If you want to retain your legitimacy to practice protest, then now you also have to do something for eco electricity, and we finally need an eco electricity promotion law that ends the expansion stop. Mr Widmann, of course, the eco electricity law is not everything, we need efficiency measures, we need savings, but the eco electricity law is at the heart of energy policy in Austria and also the heart of climate policy. That is why we need an initiative here at last, because no one in terms of biomass, wind and photovoltaics can currently do anything in Austria. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, you have now mentioned Güssing again; it has been mentioned more often today. Of course, we don't believe that you can transfer Güssing one to one, that was not meant either. [[Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner: But how?]] It was meant to be: What is possible in Güssing must also be possible in Austria, and that is it! What Güssing has done is to rely on the strengths and to use and expand the resources available there. This will not be the same everywhere in Austria, but it has every region strengths, it has every region resources, and we should use them: That's biomass, that's hydropower, where it's still possible, that's photovoltaic, and that's wind. This is a flexible mix, and therefore we need an eco electricity law that promotes all energy sources. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to make a small correction to my last speech. And I meant there that at the Ecostrom we would have more chances of winning against Germany if we wanted to express it that way than in football. Rapid proved the opposite yesterday. Perhaps the Federal Government could also take an example of this and show the necessary commitment and appeal for an eco electricity law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Bartenstein is no longer here now, but I honestly find it a bit ridiculous if we now argue whether photovoltaic systems have been installed in Austria to the extent of 3 megawatts or 5 megawatts or 7 megawatts. Today it is 5 megawatts, in Germany it is 2 000 megawatts. 2 000 megawatts, by the way, is more than the performance of the entire Mochovce nuclear power station, including expansion plans. So if you're against ecostrom, it's quite clear where the trip has to go. 10,000 families in Austria want photovoltaics. 100 million € in this area means 1 000 jobs. It's incomprehensible why you don't want to do that. It has already been mentioned, the photovoltaic industry is growing, all other countries, many countries are focusing on it – Austria is not! Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, I think it would be your job to ensure that our Austrian companies can prepare and also train young people accordingly. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have spoken of social tolerance. – Do you think it is socially compatible if only a few of these 10,000 people, who may happen to have a fast internet connection, get a photovoltaic promotion? Or do you think it is socially acceptable to do nothing now and to believe that in five or ten years, people can afford the massive oil and gas prices? - I don't think so. The only thing that secures stable energy prices in the long term is renewable energy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, the Minister for Agriculture is no longer here, but he is addressed to him: We need this eco electricity law so that it can also drive crediblely to Copenhagen. We need this eco electricity law for the expansion of renewable energy in Austria. It's not enough to go to Güssing and get photographed there. We finally need more initiative in this direction, clear steps. I am therefore still of the opinion that Austria needs a strong and independent Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7257	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7278	Solar turnaround now! – jobs through eco-energy. – Yes, but what price are we willing to pay? Ladies and gentlemen, if the Greens claim in their urgent question, only in Austria is solar eclipse, this is in my eyes a pure non-sight will of reality. In Upper Austria there is a record expansion of thermal solar energy. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Yes, precisely, because of green government participation!]] Upper Austria is already number three worldwide. By the end of 2010, 100 000 roofs will be equipped with thermal solar systems. Behind Israel and Cyprus, Upper Austria has already been the number three in expanding thermal solar energy for hot water and heating worldwide. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Because of green government participation! You're right!]] The expansion has never been as strong as this year. Funding figures increased by 50 percent in the first half of 2009. For the first time in Upper Austria, well over 100 000 square meters of solar space are being built in this year. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] Already, there is already a total of over one million square meters of solar space. We have solar energy on more than 80,000 roofs. With numerous and concrete implementation-oriented measures, this is supported in Upper Austria, for example with housing promotion – Anschober is not a housing promotion! – a promotion for operational solar plants and with the solar research laboratory in Wels. [[Abg. Olymps: Squirrel!]] Well, who's responsible for it? – Not Mr. Landesrat Anschober, but, ladies and gentlemen, the committed population, the product-independent advice of the Upper Austrian Energy Saving Association and, above all, the active local companies have contributed to this success. [[Calls for Greens]] [[Abg. Großruck: Pühringer!]] And now, because the Greens are so pleased, a quote from a press release by the honourable Member Kapeller: “The VP has dropped the green demonstration project – the energy transition decided in cooperation with the privatization of Energie AG in Germany in 2030 – in an important area on the first offering occasion and thus gave the coalition partner the run pass on a central topic a year before the election of the country day. “The fact that the VP with the FP is preventing this important ecological measure with dubious arguments now robs OÖ of the chance to take an exemplary step towards sustainable energy savings and is a sounding earbeat for climate protection in OÖ.” The aim of our policy is growth and full employment. For this I thank our Federal Chancellor and the entire Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7383	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7404	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Minister of State! Mr President. High house! Federal Minister Mitterlehner has explained impressively how far we are in Austria already in the field of renewable energies and how good... – The Federal Chancellor also, we have no problem with that. [[Abg. Riepl: The Federal Chancellor too!]] The Minister for the Environment has also helped us all together. In any case, however, we can assume that in Austrian reality the renewable energy age has already clearly begun. And that's the crucial conclusion. Many people in Austria have already put in place energy saving measures, have already installed their solar plant on the roof, have installed photovoltaics, have set thermal insulation measures, have perhaps changed the car to CO2 arms, perhaps even drive with ethanol. I would like to thank all these people, perhaps some of whom are watching today, because they are interested in the subject, because they have committed acts. There's a lot of talk in here, but I thank the people who helped that Austria is finally on this road. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The energy industry has changed. Even the OMV already admits that oil will be scarce, and we all know very well that oil and natural gas will be expensive – who knows if we will get it in winter. These lost energy sources have their future. The energy source of the future – that is quite clear – is the sun in all usable variants. This is from solar energy use to photovoltaics. The sun makes the weather, the rain brings us the hydropower, the sun makes our plants grow, biomass use is nothing but solar energy use. Now, if I look at the Austrian own energy supply, what we can generate ourselves, I have to say: 44 percent of our own energy comes from biomass! And that's solar energy! About 28 percent come from hydropower. And only over 25 percent come from gas and oil. This is, as it were, the last rest that we are still bringing out from Austria's camps. Ladies and gentlemen, we have large companies, such as the paper factories, in the use of biomass. We have small biogas plants, and we all have to produce the plant fuels: Bioethanol or vegetable oil. We already have over 5 percent ethanol in the petrol, we have over 7 percent plant diesel in the diesel. That's in every car's tank, that's today's reality. I can still remember when last year the speculators on the energy market, on the food market, have accessed that prices have gone up. In this House too, some have said that the farmers are driving prices up. That hurt us very much. The speculators are now out of the market, the prices have collapsed. It is a terrible situation for farmers right now: The grain prices are deep, the prices for milk are deep, the prices for vascular wine and sugar are deep. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Catastrophe!]] There's hardly a price where you can say that's calculated. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the time for all those who said last year that the food is so important for the people of the world, now is the time to buy. Everyone who is serious about it should now put in stocks – stockpiles for safeguarding food, stockpiles for security of energy supply. We have natural gas in the warehouse. We have oil in the camp. We will also need pellet bearings, and we will also need warehouses to store energy. If we have all of this in the camp, the speculators will be able to slip us the next time. If we don't put these supplies on, it's just a matter of time until they take us back in the pliers. I don't think we all think we should let that happen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is much to do about renewable energy. The most important renewable energy is the enthusiasm of the people who go along on this path and act with us. Finally, I have a tip for you: Put stocks on! Stock is the best advice. Put on a stock of pellets at home, place a stock of oil at home, if you cannot yet give up on it, and also put on grain stocks! Because if the grain is no longer in the public hand, the speculators have it in their hands, and food can become expensive again tomorrow. Think about it and take care of it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7465	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7487	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe at the beginning a few words about Mr. Professor. Van der Bellen, who today criticised the fact that our Federal Party Minister is in the election campaign. I don't know, but... How long have you been Federal Party Minister of the Greens? – I think it was eleven years old, gal? I would think in your place whether you should really be so proud of the fact that in these eleven years in Austria – what everyone knows – you were very, very rarely physically present at the voters. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You should actually think about whether this has not been one of the reasons why, with the exception of a small phase in the public prosecutorry and a small phase, you have not achieved much more of an interim phase in the Presidency. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's especially funny if someone is excited about it that's bringing the election campaign in here, just like you do. But I'm still coming. Ladies and gentlemen, for us liberals, for many reasons it is perfectly clear that we do not want to put anything in the way of an ecological reorientation of the energy system at all. It is perfectly reasonable to promote these technologies, not just because we can create jobs, sustainable jobs. This is also one of the aspects of employment policy. But of course it is also about – and this is also an essential aspect for us – that we push back the dependence on foreign energy sources. You could have read this from us at a time when you still called us for it. We said: Austria should pursue the goal of becoming independent of energy imports. We called that “energy autarchy. ” And I think it was the Greens who said these are nationalist attitudes, so one cannot approach things. So I am now very grateful and very surprised that you have used a rethinking process and you take a reasonable approach, a reasonable idea from us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this shows only once again that, if you make environmental policy, you do not have to be set up in a party political way at all. The opposite is often the case. We would like a solution for Austria, as we have it in Germany with the Renewable Energy Act, a solution that promises sustainability, promises reliability, which is predictable and where we see that there is something like a strategy behind it. This is the accusation that the Greens are correcting the government parties and that we agree that this strategy is completely lacking in you. This is no exception in the energy sector. This is covered by your approaches or non-approachs in administrative reform, which we experience in the field of education, we experience in health, which is basically the same everywhere. You have to hear the accusation properly. I believe that all the opposition parties agree that you do not use the need here in a crisis and transform it into an opportunity. That would actually be what would have been given here. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, one cannot, of course, make it possible to try – clearly from your paper, especially from the first pages – to lock up the problems on the labour market, which have not been there since the 1930s, with a key. A key locks all locks, and that's why, interestingly, you packed the word "full employment" in front of the first pages of your request. This is the real intention that you want to make people know now that if we make this turn, then under the rule something like full employment comes out. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It's not in there!]] I'm telling you, that's not credible. I understand why They do it, because precisely with this programme now a self-named green Messiah in Upper Austria also draws from village square to village square – only under the exclusion of the public – and proclaims a miracle of the increase in the workplace. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what you're really talking about. This is the problem I have with the Greens in this whole context. This is the lack of credibility in relation to the combination of employment and environmental policy. There you can now look at Upper Austria, there you can also look into the Federal Republic of Germany. That's what it was. Her parade presentation group in the Federal Republic of Germany, which has entered a federal government with a central election promise – that is an important point – that is to ensure nuclear exodus in the energy sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Well, now let's take a look at what the people who chose the Greens. – They have got nothing for it, because the energy exit has basically dissolved into air, and you are responsible for it. [[Mr Van der Bellen and Dr. Moser.]] Since I have seen this Taferl – which is really funny – on which it is said: Whoever is against ecostrom is for nuclear power!, I tell you another sentence: Whoever is like you in this undifferentiated way, as you are, for this European Union, is for nuclear power! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have to make this accusation happen. They do every nonsense, starting from Euratom until I don't know where to go – everything under the cover of atomic safety – and they basically work with an atomic lobby at European level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] That's the truth! [[Further calls to the Greens.]] I'll tell you one more thing because it's important to me: You can't make it that easy, and this also distinguishes you from us liberals, that you can come up with new, quite reasonable ideas, but what you do will be irresponsible if you play one against the other. You are here pretending to have the universal recipe for employment, and at the same time – and this is what your text is about here – you are mercilessly going to other groups of workers and defying them. The drivers have already been mentioned here. These are even your favorite opponents. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is not an employee group!]] Then pull this across the vegetable garden, the scrapping premium doesn't fit you, at the petrol price we know what you've already planned, you want everything possible. [[New calls to the Greens.]] You're pretending that people – even those on the track of your “air hundred” – would be traveling voluntarily by car. This is an insanity and shows how little you can believe in the truth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can come to a conclusion, and now you can't take the SPÖ out: Wherever there is a coalition, there is a content alliance in terms of employment policy between the left-wing forces in this House, between the Greens and the SPÖ, there it is common danger. [[Call the SPÖ:Hello! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] – Yes, because it is against the interests of the Austrian population, you have to say that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the SPÖ's future workshops – immediately with a veritable cry of the Greens – how else could we come to the idea of allowing asylum seekers on the labour market in this country, where we have basically the greatest unemployment since the 1930s and an end is not yet in sight? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This must basically be referred to as a common hazard. Or do you want to say that this is a reasonable contribution to the development of labour market policy, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Silhavy: You'll get the seasonal eggs in for that!]] For this reason, I would like to make the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to distance itself from all plans for opening the labour market for asylum seekers and to take all measures capable of countering the problem of the domestic labour market. We are not satisfied with the reel of a Minister of Dog Torfer. We want you to declare yourself here and today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7652	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7714	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7735	High house! My very dear television viewers! What do we get politicians money for every month? What do we get from the taxpayer every month? – Is it for us to scatter sand into people's eyes? Is it because we are distributing sedative games to explain to them that everything can remain the way it is, and that no reforms are necessary? Is that your job? Is this your understanding of policy, Mr Minister, if You're making yourself here – I hope you're still there, no, you've already left, Minister of Economic Affairs – and you're saying that we can't promote green electricity in Austria anymore, because otherwise it'll be too expensive? - Then I can only tell you one thing: The electricity, the oil, the gas, that's already very expensive in Austria. It's expensive over all measurements. Why? – Because the problems arising from our current production of conventional energies – whether nuclear power, oil, gas or electricity – are up to the next generations, and that is the problem. That means that there is no cost truth. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner takes place again at the government bank.]] – Very well, the Minister is now back. – Mr Minister, if you talk about the electricity and everything having to be cheap, then I have to say, of course, it has to be manageable, not a question, but at the moment the electricity is not cheap, and the nuclear current is not cheap, because the final storage has to pay the next generation. That is why there is no cost-effectiveness here. You should also be interested in security of supply, Minister. I know the interest is not too great on your part, but if you look at security of supply, if you look at the gas fields in Russia at the end that production can still be kept at the level, but the future needs of Europe can no longer be met, and if you look further at Russia's promise to supply China, then I must say that it will no longer be enough for Europe in the next ten to twenty years. It won't be enough anymore! If you make yourself up here today and claim that we just have to continue as before, then everything will stay pretty cheap and the industry will be fine, then I can only tell you: There you are on the wood road! [[Abg. Hörl: Biomass!]] There you are probably one of those politicians who scatter sand into the eyes of people and hope that everything will work out like a miracle, but you are not a politician who sees the future and sees the problems we have. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In view of the CO2 problem, we need to save millions of tonnes of CO2 under the Kyoto Protocol. And what does the Federal Government do? – The Federal Government has no idea how this should be done. A year ago, we were promised an energy concept that is still not there. Now there are two ways to do this: Either you don't want or you can't. I don't think you can't. You have a legion of officials, you have plenty of money available for studies, so They could set a concept for Austria loosely within a few months. We from the BZÖ, without the legions of officials and without these financial resources, have managed in three months to establish a coherent energy concept in which it is precisely how we can achieve the objectives of the Kyoto Protocol not only but also over-fulfilment. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Federal Minister, I know you are not too interested in changing the status quo. Also the compound or other energy suppliers have no interest that deserve a golden nose in the present situation. In the interests of the people, however, you should be careful not only to think up to the next election, but also to create an energy supply in Austria in 20, 30 years, which is first safe, second is manageable and thirdly, is in line with the objectives of the Kyoto Protocol, or perhaps even over-fulfilled. That is what people expect of you, Federal Minister, that is what people generally expect from us politicians to look beyond the edge of the plate and make reasonable policies for the future. That is what I have done, and I hope, Minister, that you too have acted for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7790	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7813	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor, it is already very disappointing that you do not find a sentence on Temelín. The Upper Austrians are worried about this scrap reactor at our doorstep, and what have you done in recent months? [[Call the FPÖ:Up to one!]] – Not one initiative to secure Temelín. [[Abg. Amon: You didn't listen!]] What we expect from you is that the Environment Minister and the Foreign Minister are finally putting activities against Temelín. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, you are talking about the cost of the eco electricity. I am already very surprised that you do not differentiate a little and talk about 13 billion euros a year from abroad, for oil, coal and gas. They also do not talk about the threat of fines at billions because of the failure of the Kyoto target. Think about that! The aim must be that we finally have an energy supply in Austria, which creates independence: Independence of gas supplies from Russia, oil deliveries from the East. There is already the question of when you are finally taking action. This concerns not only photovoltaics, but the entire eco-stream area. Of course, it is about reducing the cost of households and the economy in the long term. All experts predict an enormous increase in oil and gas prices as soon as the crisis gets a little easier. At last, you could invest to ensure price stabilisation for households. It would have been time for Austria to set itself the goal of making Austria a model region in energy policy, energy efficiency, renewable energy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now a sincere thank you to the woman Schönpass. Mrs Schönpass, yes, you have listed all the achievements of the last six years that have been achieved in Upper Austria. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: But not through the greens!]] Upper Austria has become a model region, precisely because of the fact that there are great companies there. We have more than 150 companies in the eco-energy cluster that work very successfully. We have many tens of thousands of motivated, committed, competent employees who are very successful in this industry. [[Call to the FPÖ:The economy is virtuous!]] Rudi Anschober as the State Council has made sure that the framework conditions are better and that they are the way they are – and that this was possible in this form. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister Mitterlehner is not here now, but it has already been written to him in the main book: In Upper Austria, it was decided in the Landtag in 2007 that in 2030 Upper Austria can generate electricity and heat to 100 percent from renewable energy sources. 100 percent! This is a clear objective, and it was very much supported by the ÖVP. These are not dreaming – and the Güssingers will thank themselves very much for being quoted in this form, that this is hardly imaginable. The fact that it has made Upper Austria the model region also shows other numbers. Since 2006, energy consumption in Upper Austria has fallen – contrary to the Austrian trend – and the share of renewable energies has increased enormously and many other lighthouse projects have been realized. As regards hydropower, Minister Mitterlehner, there was a large small hydropower offensive, namely 200 small hydropower plants were modernised and 56 were newly built. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] If you find this laughing, Mr. Cot, this is already a bit strange access that you have on the topic of renewable energy. [[Abg. Hörl: Your Pharisee!]] Through this strong renewable energy market in Upper Austria, it has succeeded – this shows a study by Johannes Kepler University – that 15 000 jobs have been created. This is a success recipe for how it should continue, yes. A future programme, which has been prepared in detail and in detail on the issue of e-mobility, shows us that over the next six years there will be another 50 000 jobs to be created. Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to invite you, come to Upper Austria to the companies such as SOlution Solartechnik, ÖkoFEN, Fronius, as they are all called, and they will all tell you: Federal Chancellor, we need a new eco electricity law!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7927	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7948	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister of State on the Government Bank! I have to make a small correction now, but this is simply necessary. The measures put in place in the context of the housing promotions in Upper Austria for energy saving are a much more energy-efficient measure than those that Mr Rudi Anschober was able to take and implement in his place of business; he was likely to rely too much on the ÖVP. On this urgent question, I would like to note that it is of course good that we discuss this issue today – I believe, even in very good quality – but would like to criticise one thing: I have noticed from this question of the Greens that there is no single word of research, technology and innovation associated with it. There is only the verbal requirement: From tomorrow's solar turn!; we are supposed to put it into practice in that second, so to speak. This is not possible, however, because it has already been said by the Federal Chancellor that in the field of research and development, we have a great technological need, especially in the photovoltaic segment, for this technology to become marketable. I am delighted and able to tell you that three company representatives are now sitting together on this issue and concluding a cooperation agreement on hybrid solar technology with concentrator technology, which will be an Austrian innovation next year. I brought myself in and brought the ladies and gentlemen together. This technology will cause the solar question to be no longer a question of funding. I believe that expenditure in the field of research and innovation in the field of technological quality and the marketability of these products in Austria is enormously high in European comparison. I would say, at least, that the Germans, who are also very involved in this field, are relatively higher. We have very good implementations of the Federal Minis programmes with the Climate and Energy Fund, with the research promotion society aws and the like. in the field of innovation and research. Colleague Bures here is as committed as her predecessor Werner Faymanndas has already been. There are a lot of programmes that focus on new drive technologies, new battery technologies, synthetic fuel programmes and also on environmental measures – Mr Hofer has addressed the problem of humor, which is really a topic in Austria; the re-humanisation measure is an issue, Mr Minister for Agriculture, which you will have to address. In any case, there is a big pot here, and I am very convinced that we will be really leading in this area in the next few years in Austria. In the area of infrastructure development, of course, much is also necessary, which is not yet available. If we produce all energy and decentralized energy production is a topic, we need intelligent meters, we need intelligent power lines that organize power management differently than they do today, i.e. there are huge investments in billions that the grid operators will have to make. E-mobility, of course, also depends on decentralised energy supply and consumption. Two lighthouse projects in Austria are being done Hiezu – You know –: Siemens, KTM, MAGNA and the association have joined forces to form a consortium. I hope there will also be a second e-mobility consortium, which will then have Steyr as a location. I am very optimistic that in a few years, even as regards electromobility, Austria will create innovations that will be world success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8018	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8068	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! High house! I see two reasons for today's special session. One is: Mrs Glawischnig wanted to return to her baby's break in the media, but unfortunately she is not here now, as in many discussions before. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Such a nonsense!]] The second reason, of course, is the country elections in Upper Austria. That is what we have heard from the debates. Of course, I would like to take up this ball and say something about it, because Austria is – we know – a federalist state with federal states and municipalities, and, of course, in addition to the initiatives of the Federal Government, a lot is happening in the countries and a lot is happening in the municipalities. Mrs Schönpass mentioned some examples from Upper Austria earlier, and we do not want to conduct paternity processes and compete with those who are the better, but I believe that together, under the leadership of the head of state, Pühringer, has developed very positively in Upper Austria. 53,000 new jobs in recent years, Upper Austria is top in environmental technology. Whether it is housing promotion, which has been designed by the Landesrat Kepplinger ecologically and environmentally compatible, or also by Rudi Anschober, I do not question that at all, but we have developed Upper Austria together, and that is a good thing. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] To this end, a few facts: 73 biogas plants, 13 biomass-power heat-couplings, excellent residential development, ecologisation. Climate protection is in the state constitution in Upper Austria. 800 biomass heating plants are available, 600 near-heating plants. Upper Austria is the driving engine of genetic engineering freedom, and so on, and so on. It is planned for the next few years to promote photovoltaics through a 20 000 photovoltaic roof programme. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Citizens' Initiatives have been committed to all of this!]] The aim is: On 20,000 roofs in Upper Austria are expected to be photovoltaic plants. An energy-autarchic Upper Austria will be sought by 2030, and so on, and so on. This is an ambitious programme, and you have to see it as a whole, Mrs Moser, and not separately. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I come to the communities to speak: There is, I believe, no mayor who is not also engaged in environmental protection in his community and also promoting sustainable energy. I bring the example of my home town Grieskirchen. I'm unsuspecting, I'm not running for the mayor's office anymore. I have an excellent successor, Mrs. Maria Pachner; she will be on 27. ==References====External links== In Grieskirchen we have a school center for 1,500 students in construction, ladies and gentlemen, which will come out at 19 KW per square meter – lowest energy. We have built a waste collection centre with the waste association, for which the architect has by the way received the Upper Austrian wooden construction price, lowest energy house, passive house. We have a long-distance heating plant that saves 10 000 tonnes of CO2 emissions each year. We are promoting alternative energies from the community, and so on, and so on. I could continue this list for a long time. I would like to prove that: Not only the federal government, not only the countries, but also the municipalities do a lot in this sector. And so that it remains this way, ladies and gentlemen, and that nothing will change in Upper Austria, I come to the end of my four-and-a-half-fold liner: It flourishes, it grows and it pulsates, as everyone in the country feels. No other country comes to this, that's also Upper Austria. Everyone knows the reason here in Vienna: where Oberösterreich stands on it, is Pühringer in it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8136	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8157	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am also Upper Austrian. I'm also wearing the sign of my party, whose guardian I am, but there's no pühringer in it, that's certain. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But one thing is inside at this National Council meeting: So we are happy to conduct the green election campaign of Upper Austria and of Vorarlberg. Why? – Because the Greens in these countries obviously no longer arrive at the population, now they are trying to do so here on Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why don't the Greens arrive? – Because they have actually forgotten their basic theme, they mainly make a different kind of policy. You are no longer concerned with environmental policy, but with your social policy, which is deeply unpleasant to the ordinary citizen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the high time of the Greens is over, the time when they made with interesting personalities such as the so-called Auhirsch, such as the Kaspanaze, like the Filmböswicht Furore, and so at that time brought the issue of the environment closer to the old parties. – They never needed to bring it closer to us, because we always had it, because we are a home party, and the home country needs a healthy environment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We're home party! We wouldn't even think of such words in the dream as you find them in the green propaganda: Home in the heart – shit in the brain! - Never alive! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Such a nonsense!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are making normal, ordinary policies at a parliamentary session – and not an election campaign for any federal states. That's what we're doing in the federal states. That is why we have a motion for a resolution on the introduction of a renewable energy law. Why this is necessary, some of our contributions have already been discussed today. This motion for a resolution reads as follows: The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to submit a government template to ensure a complete revision of the current eco electricity law towards a renewable energy law (EEC) according to German model.’ I would ask that this be included in the debate and debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a beautiful Sunday Sunday on Sunday and Sunday on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8233	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8281	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8303	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The special meeting five days before the regular meeting of the Ecostrom Act already gives rise to the impression that green activism exists here. In addition, I would like to point out that thousands of euros, even tens of thousands of euros, will be cut off on taxpayers' money, just because the Greens did not advance in the election campaign. Ladies and gentlemen! The Vorarlberg Greens are only busy crawling at the head of the state in the back, because the coalition there is almost fixed. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Mr President!]] If this is observed, Mr Rauch is already going to all four in front of the ÖVP, just to get to the state government and get a well paid national council post there. Ladies and gentlemen, that's how it really looks. The Greens have forgotten the really green issues, and I will now give you some examples. Where has the appeal remained that only €70 000 from the Federal budget and €45 000 from the Vorarlberger Landesbudget go into animal welfare? Where'd it go? I was at a mercies farm, who gets to say and write 5 000 € a year. These are the costs it consumes in one month for the animals that are supplied there. I didn't hear from the Greens at all. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We have forced a Federal Animal Protection Act!]] Ladies and gentlemen, where is the call – if we are already in the Federal Animal Protection Act – in chess? I didn't hear anything! I can give you examples of where people came to me, shocks at how the animals were slaughtered there, cut off and killed under bestial torments. I didn't hear from the Greens. The chess continues to take place in Austria – and you of the Greens do nothing about it! You have missed your topics; they are standing next to them – and that is why this session is happening today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak now on environmental issues. I have not heard anything about environmental issues in the campaign of the Vorarlberg Greens. On the contrary! You've only managed to prevent streets. When I think about the S 18 – this is also a federal theme, a highway – I know that the Vorarlberg Greens have only blocked and prevented. They came with the quail king. This quail king – I have heard that now – has been in charge of the Ennstaltrasse, so to speak. Nobody saw him in Vorarlberg, and now he's in Burgenland. I think it's the quail king again at the S 7. No one's seen him again. They're just hearing him. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you are running a policy of prevention to the detriment of people who have to live on the streets that are overburdened every day. That's how it looks! In the working group of the Vorarlberger Landesregierung, which should plan the follow-up road of the S 18, there are loud roadblockers inside, who do not care about the fact that everywhere from Hörbranz to Höchst and Lustenau, people suffocate in traffic, in the exhaust gases. There's nothing going on and it's just blocked: These are your people sitting in there, who don't do anything! That's how it looks! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And then medially is blocked. It's a campaign now, I have to use it a little bit, because otherwise we have no way to get over medially. [[Call the Greens:Aha! Oho!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: So that's why!]] We say that 36 Members are too much for the Vorarlberger Landtag. Salzburg and Tyrol, which have double population numbers, also have 36 delegates. 18 Members are enough! That's enough; I can carry it. [[Abg. Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek: Mr President, we cannot call on the matter!]] I believe that it is necessary, as in Upper Austria, to enforce savings measures in Vorarlberg. The funds could then be used rationally. The Landtagswahl and the municipal council elections, which take place half a year later, should be put together. Ladies and gentlemen, that's how you can make savings. Since the red light here is already flashing at the speaker's desk, I'm going a little further: second pipe. The population in the Lülachal suffocated in traffic. But there was only blockade policy. Even Council of State Just – now ex-land councillor – who has blocked this road or this second tunnel tube for years with a traffic policy of blockade, the gate solution, even this Council of State has said that this road is being built ten years too late. You should look at the people, ladies and gentlemen! So you could relieve the people who have to be in the jam there every day, who have to swallow the dust, the dirt there! So you have to work for the people – and not the way you do it: They see that as many criminals as possible can come into the country and follow their actions here. [[Abg. Mr Pirklhuber: Mr President!]] And now I'm gonna tell you something: They're running criminal service! In Vorarlberg, it's the way it's going to break in and the newspapers won't write any more of it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You're a quota killer! Stop it!]] These ladies and gentlemen, these bands from Moldova go in and out, and you shake people like that. These are asylum seekers who keep up with chain applications here in our country That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! This is the policy of the Greens, and this is clearly to be rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Is there no call to the matter?]] And now I would like to speak briefly to the EIA, job security. We talked about jobs. There are 11 000 unemployed in Vorarlberg! There has never been so much in the Second Republic. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! This is the policy of the ÖVP. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the area of social benefits, Vorarlberg is the final light, and in security, the healing world is being precipitated. 60 new police officers were recruited and places created for them. Otherwise, there are 30 training places each year. Last year one left out these 30, just to be able to score again with 60 new settings. It's good to sell! That's how you can make politics. The people have their noses full of this policy. That's why the Vorarlbergers will choose the BZÖ on Sunday, because a new young force has to enter. That's the right choice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8461	Mr Hagen – I apologise for my voice, that is a 3:0-damaged voice – I refer to the beginning of your speech. [[Sadness and general applause]] I think you're going to get out without a proper comparison, and you're gonna be understood by everyone like that. - We understand each other! Thank you. [[Call to BZÖ:And what about Mr Pirklhuber?]] Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Excuse me, I just wanted to say: Your group has just left you for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8496	This is the voluntary limit on speaking time, the group has another 4 minutes, but we will be on the same footing.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8511	No, this is the total speaking time that you used out as a political group. - That's it. [[Cheerfulness at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Deputies Mag. Werner Kogler, Mr President. [[Continue]] Let us remember together that the Greens will soon be very successful, and already last night Greens celebrated a 3 : 0 victory very successfully. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you can't say that!]] We can still agree on this. Otherwise, we turn to the seriousness of the matter, which actually came a little away from us by the last speakers. [[Abg. New builder: If they win the next time in red dress, will the SPÖ win?]] If there is a way out of the current economic and financial crisis, on the one hand, and from the climate and environmental crisis on the other, then it is precisely the knowledge that brings together the problem solution. Create work and protect climate and the environment! And these are exactly the intentions that the Greens are concerned with. And that is also the spirit of this request, even if small-minded people – wursters, where now – have tried to break it. However, you also need to recognize the big lines! And that is why it will not only be today, but also continue. And these large lines are very clearly defined. They won't stop you either. What you might bring together, however, is that Austria is not involved if it is going to happen now. The big lines are perfectly clear: It's about getting out of the industrial age old types and getting into the solar age. Either we are in Austria now, and we are promoting – yes, how else? – by the way, or we're sleeping. And you're snoring down a big number and expecting us some cost stories. We only need to understand which support system we want for this matter. If all of this were to be expected on our own, we would not need it all at all. I'm telling you quite honestly: In view of the measures you have promoted and forced to stand here and to lament when household electricity costs are taxed by less than 1 cent a day – that is, converted – it shows that you have completely lost the relationships. Force scrap premium, yes. That's what you do, and that's what you're doing, but where the shifts go into the future, slow down. And that's the difference! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Will the Austrian companies be able to increase or not to enter the energy industry and the eco-industry; and we will also create jobs here or not. You, Mr Katzian, were the best representative of the old line. You always see only those who have work right now. That is important enough, but we must also think about the jobs that will be created in the future. With this retro conservation policy, we will not be far away for long. We will have to transform our industrial understanding into Central Europe – or we will be left behind. And that's why we stand there and say: There's a way to the future. And now they're called green jobs. We will therefore not change our party name. By the way, it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8595	Now comes Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8617	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unlike my previous speaker, I say, Austria is here: Austria is in association with the European Union at the end of the year during the international climate negotiations for Copenhagen. And we can be proud of it. The European Union is the only region in the world with an answer to climate change worldwide. By the decision of the Climate and Energy Package by the end of last year, we have clear targets for reducing greenhouse gases, and development targets for renewable energy. By 2020 20 percent more, means 34 percent of renewable energy for Austria. A crucial point is how this should be implemented. That sounds like it's not much, but it's enormously ambitious. How we will implement this is the subject of the energy strategy for Austria, which Mr Mitterlehner, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, and I, have designed and is currently running – in many working groups, where the social partners and in general those who can deliver input, such as the energy industry, but also the bioenergy associations jointly develop this strategy. This is not just about solar energy, but about an energy mix of hydropower, wind and solar energy, energy from biomass. It is also, of course, also about efficient energy use and energy saving, otherwise these objectives cannot be achieved. The aim is to have the energy strategy by the end of this year, finalize it at the beginning of next year and then present it to the European Union. Of course, the energy autarchy is a fascinating vision that I share. I think it is a fascinating approach, for domestic reasons, that we are producing all the energy in our own country, regardless of the energy supply from abroad, creating value added in regions, preventing the flow of purchasing power and doing something for the climate. But this is a long-term perspective, while we need fossil energy immediately, of course. Güssing is a model that has proved it, and because many communities want to follow this model, we also support it through the Climate and Energy Fund. I have launched a support action that supports communities when they implement energy autarchy concepts. The promotion action has started this year. They speak to communities from all over Austria because this is, of course, a perspective. Of course, I believe that Green Jobs or Green Jobs and Green Growth – all of this makes sense and is an answer to the economic crisis. This is not the only answer, we also need other industries; but it is clear that Green Jobs say that ecology and economics are compatible; that this is no contrast, as it was perhaps decades ago, but that jobs are continuously generated by the use of environmental protection or climate protection measures. We have calculated what we could create in about 75 000 Green jobs, by force renewables or by environmental technology as a whole. We have the Master Plan for Environmental Technology, which we implement by train, where Austrian companies are successful not only in the field of renewable energy, but also in environmental technology as a whole in Austria, but also internationally. I or we in the Federal Government support this very much because these companies are now creating jobs and we are finding solutions to their ecological problems for other countries, namely, waste water treatment, water treatment and so on. One point to nuclear power: It is clear to us that in the government programme, we do not have an answer to nuclear energy: neither in the case of sustainable energy supply nor climate protection. We see, however, that many countries in the world, the US, as well as many states in Europe, are very likely to see this as an answer. But precisely to Temelín or to the current case of Mochovce, we have decided on a clear position in the Federal Government, which we also present. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That would be there?]] Today, the hearing procedure in Bratislava is under way with Mochovce. We are there, a high-ranking civil servant group of my house, the Ministry of Life, in order to represent Austrian interests – quite clearly, as we have always done from the federal side so far. I have tried to make Slovakia a public hearing also in Austria. That was successful, it was successful. Slovakia will hold the public hearing on 25 July. September in Vienna, because we wanted this to be discussed here in Austria as well, and Slovakia is respectfully discussing the development of Mochovce here. So you see: We are trying on the government side to consistently implement our line: what is happening in nuclear energy, but also in terms of the use and increased use of renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8680	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gaßner. - Please. [[Abg. May. Gässner: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Mr President! Which 3:0 has ruined your voice?]] – This is not the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8723	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! This special meeting presented Mr Kogler as absolutely necessary and important, because we are supposed to “snare” all the Greens would be more impenetrable and would move on the right path. Mr Kogler, my question is: Why Have Don't you call this special meeting earlier? Why did she have to be exactly a week before the Austrian election? [[Calls to the Greens.]] - Just like that! Next week, we will discuss an energy issue, namely the Ecostrom Act, on a normal date. Why a second appointment? So a little bit of saving might also be a consideration when it comes to energy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Professor Van der Bellen, you have said in your statement that the largest solar power plant in Upper Austria is to be built; they have said this in connection with the Greens, therefore: Does this build the greens or does Energie AG build it? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Energie AG, against the voices of the Reds!]] – So I think Energie AG will build it, probably until now it’s a project. But what does that have to do with it? – Well, the Greens are, of course, in a government agreement with the Blacks. That's why I'm wondering: Why did the Greens not prevail when the Red Councillor Kepplinger wanted to carry out the solar power in the construction of housing? There was nothing to feel at all from the “green punch ” and from the“ green work. ” [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We voted with you!]] – Yes, but you’re talking about that this upper Austrian way is the good one. – He's not that good either. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Güssing has already been mentioned a few times – an excellent thing. Mr. Molterer has financed it. I hope he has also supported the red mayors in this form. Example from my community, from Schwerberg: The municipality of Schwerberg, a red community, remembers to build a photovoltaic park to reach this energy autarchy. What's happening to us? – Our greens doubt that, they are not going to be much too expensive. [[Uh-rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: It's strong!]] So please, if it is consistent, then also to the smallest community! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, now I have a question to ask you. I read on a poster today: “Whoever is against ecostrom is for nuclear power.” – No, I wrote it down. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] I ask you: At that time, when Mr. Landesrat Anschober and Mr. Landeshaupt Pühringer set all the levers in motion to bring Energie AG to the stock market – not to sell, not to privatize, but to bring it to the stock market – although 80 percent of the Greens and 75 percent of the population of Upper Austria were opposed? The whole of Upper Austria has justifiably said: If we go to the stock exchange with Energie AG, then the access of the nuclear companies is given – see EASDAQ, see EVN, we have been pre-excerted everywhere. On the contrary, Mr Anschober spoke about the “populism” of our national deputy Haider, who wanted to question the citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] This is not a straight path, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When it comes to preventing the atomic current, please go to the last result! I would like to tell you something more – because Mr Grossruck has spoken about his successor and that everything is all right –: We are in a similar situation. Both of our successors stand up for the first time of the election. I need to tell you a story now, so that the election campaign is not destroyed a little bit. There are also very unclean trains. There the ÖVP has the forehead to go to the FPÖ and invite her to present a mayor – so that our candidate does not get the absolute majority in the first election! - Well, you can do that. [[Call at the ÖVP: This also made the SPÖ!]] But then also offer to those who pay the election campaign, whether you can do that would be superior! [[Uh-Rufe at the SPÖ]] In order to save our liberals, I must say: They got up from the table and left.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8879	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Sonnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8901	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Minister! High house! I do not want to talk specifically about the CO2 balance of this special meeting, but the restriction on solar energy is, in my view, too little. We need an energy mix of biomass, biogas, wind and water. Environmental technology in full width has the greatest growth potential and is a real job engine. Next week, there will be green light for the Ecostrom Act. I am seeking the opposition to go here so that the available OeMAG funds can be used in the amount of € 700 million. As an ÖVP building speaker, I am particularly pleased about the €100 million for thermal renovation from federal resources. In the area of private housing, they were out of print in a few weeks. I would like to repeat, but at the same time appeal to the countries, on the rules of construction and on the promotion of housing energy policy. I would also like to address the Upper Austrian energy policy. In June 2009, at the initiative of the economic council Viktor Sigl and the Council of State Rudi Anschober, the state government decided on an energy future concept. Upper Austria is to become the first region to drive into a new energy future: more energy efficiency and renewable energy. In implementing this future of energy, there must not be any danger to businesses, jobs and social security systems. On the contrary: The Upper Austrian economy will be very closely involved in this implementation process. It is about the financialability of the measures, it is about the efficient use of public funds. The energy transition must above all be able to benefit everyone, through opportunities for new jobs and lower energy costs. We have already achieved a lot in Upper Austria and this has been confirmed today – together, by all parties in the concert, by the Red, by the Greens, also the ÖVP has a significant share in it. We are international technology leaders in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency in Upper Austria. In the eco-energy cluster, 150 companies already cooperate with 4 500 employees and a total turnover of €1.6 billion! 50 percent go to export to more than 40 countries. I think that is a positive balance that can be seen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's it!]] Finally, allow me to say a few words about the upcoming Upper Austrian Landtags- und Gemeinderatswahl (Landtags- und Gemeinderatswahl) on 27 May. September. In one of the most economically difficult times, Upper Austria has decided on a successful economic recovery programme in implementation. We have good employment figures, the lowest unemployment rates of all the federal states! Nevertheless, every unemployed person is too much. 53 000 jobs have been created in Upper Austria over the last six years. I am convinced that in this difficult time Upper Austria does not need a change at the top of the country, not experiments, but that Oberösterreich, with Dr. Josef Pühringer, as head of state, can be successfully conducted and further developed in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8968	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8990	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grossruck, I may send you a four-liner from Dr. Fichtenbauer: Missing are big trucks wack’re lines, it will soon speed him up, because he praises Pühringer in the Höh’ – and winner will be the FPÖ! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Ladies and gentlemen, back to the hard day policy, to a truly important special session of today. In analogy with my colleague Ing. I should like to make the following request to Hofer: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I kindly ask you to support our request. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, I should also like to draw you a lot closer to climate policy in Austria as a whole, because it is important. If you listen to all of this, you often believe that you are in Vorarlberger or in the Upper Austrian Landtag or in a Brettlbühne. [[Abg. Grosz: What is a board stage?]] I would like to tell you what the Court of Auditors said about climate policy in Austria. The Court of Auditors says that, in Austria, climate policy will be influenced by political leaders who are mainly lobbyists who are hard at work for their interests, which is why it is politically difficult to get in touch with all these issues. On the one hand, this is commendable, on the other hand it is not useful for the effect. Then there are politicians in Austria who simply ignore circumstances, e.g. traditional rights, such as to carry out popular desires and referendums. The politicians in this House simply ignored legitimate interests of Austrian citizens, namely 1 million signatures against Temelín! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The same politicians – the current Federal Government –, ladies and gentlemen, are now giving their opinion on the extension of Temelín and Mochovce to an EU-lawful EIA procedure. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say one thing: They support an illegal procedure and thereby make themselves guilty of the interests of Austrian citizens! Think about it again before you really make these comments here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] Mrs Brunner, because you said you supported the objections to Mochovce, I would like to inform you: The entire liberal club has long expressed these objections by signature. And we have not only raised these objections, but have become active in contrast to your Council of State, which you so hope for today! We have complained against Mochovce and were the only party in this country who has also complained against the enlargement of Temelín and against the nuclear waste camp and against the EURATOM Treaty! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, Mrs Brunner, and you, Mrs Glawischnig, and all the others who believe today that Mr Anschober, who has done nothing else in Upper Austria for five years, is defending his chair, which he carried around during the election campaign, so that some Upper Austrians already had panics that he no longer stands up at all. Anschober has such fear of getting up, he fears that he will be pulled away from his back, the butt! That's why he hasn't risen up at all, and that's why he hasn't worked for this country for five years. Mr. Anschober made only one point: his office was converted into a "stasi-central" where Austrian citizens were sniffed and stifled. It did not matter if foreign citizens were once insulted in a truly humane way. – This is not the style of Austrian domestic policy! This is a climate change, I give you the right, but this climate change, my dear Professor, does not want the Austrians, you can believe me! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If there is yet to be found out what the Upper Austrian Government is already doing, namely that from Anschober's office, without the consent of the prosecutor's office, the computer of the national server was tapped and all the national officials were incarcerated – by a police officer who knows Mr. Ollinger very well by email – then the legal action you have not yet known about the effect will be taken! I can only say: I hope that's not the case. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Be at your own door!]] And I'm looking for: Return to climate policy, to climate change – and do not poison the climate! That would be my wish.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9147	The application submitted shall be dealt with. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9214	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9235	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! The debate is quite amusing today. Apart from the more or less funny quadruples, we learn that the ÖVP wants to finance the election campaign of the liberals, that a “stasi-central” appears to be set up in the Upper Austrian country house. The fact is, however, that the Greens are today quoting the Federal Government for an election campaign in the High House and the Federal Government is suddenly hanging around a green coat. These contributions were not credible today, but not those of the Greens, when you listen to them: In Upper Austria, where they bear responsibility, milk and honey flow, where everything is actually fine. – The facts speak a different language, and that is why I refer only to those figures which have officially shown the statistics of Austria on energy policy and which my previous speaker was not allowed to mention: The share of renewable energy is 42 percent in Carinthia, 30 percent in Upper Austria. – Statistics Austria. But what's crucial is: What changes with the end-user? – Increase in the final consumer from renewable energy from 2000 to 2007: 63 percent in Carinthia, 28 percent in Upper Austria. I will also tell you why: because in Carinthia, under the head of state Jörg Haider, we have set up a model with which we have directly supported consumers. Those who are burdened by an increased electricity price, which you have to answer, have received a discharge via direct payments. And we have supported those companies that have invested in solar energy and new technologies. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Today, the Federal Government is talking about an ecological turnaround. – There is no turn of this federal government in the field of energy policy, even if it is not possible to recognize such a one! Electromobility as an example: While in Germany, with a national effort and a development plan, €500 million is provided and made fit, this has been completely slept in Austria. Photovoltaic: They have not learned from the mistakes in recent years – it has already been addressed – and in 15 minutes the promotions were out of place and exhausted. Nothing has been learned for this year; in the operating area, the server has collapsed. But it is even thicker because, because of the inaction of the Federal Government, there are high penalties on Austria. I only call the penalty payment by failing to reach the Kyoto target, where both the climate change report and the Court of Auditors have found that these objectives are not achieved by Austria –: 2 billion euros alone in penalty payments if we take the values back today, namely 20 million tonnes of CO2 surplus. Among the nuclear costs that Austria has to finance: We know that the EURATOM budget has increased three times over the last three years and you have been silent to the High House and the Austrians to this day, of course, that we have to finance these costs. It is €200 million that comes to the taxpayer. One last point I would like to address, because under the new law you also have the opportunity to prevent this is the basket money for the electricity distributors. They know that the eco electricity is passed on to consumers by the electricity companies with an average surcharge of more than 40 percent. On the part of the BZÖ, we demand a very concrete legal regulation in the new bill, which provides that the electricity companies do not fall into a basket money, but that only the costs for the transfer 1 : 1 can be calculated. According to E-Control, only 77 million schillings are made available to the Austrians. [[Abg. Bookbook: Euro!]] These would be necessary steps to be adopted within the framework of the law. However, what Austria urgently needs and what we call for from this Federal Government is a coherent approach to all points, both in the electricity sector, in the field of alternative energies, and especially in the field of new environmental technologies.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9300	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9321	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Energy and, above all, its costs, this is a very important issue in the development and growth of an economy. Unfortunately, today this special meeting over long distances has been used to hold, so to speak, an important event for country elections. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Of course, renewable energy will have a very substantial share in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, especially you of the Greens, you have repeatedly talked about the energy transition today, but I think you have overlooked anything. We have been in this energy transition for many years, and I would like to make a few points here. We have taken measures with the Eco electricity Act, which in particular promotes the energy mix accordingly. This is also important, because one can not only rely on a renewable energy type, but also, of course, must rely on biogas plants as well as biomass plants, especially in Austria, must think of hydroelectric power plants, and here also implement appropriate funding measures. Overall, we have a real top-ranking role in Austria, especially in international and European comparison. If we already have the share of renewable energy at present at almost 26 percent, with a very ambitious target of 34 percent in 2020, then I can again point to countries like Germany, which are currently only 8.6 percent, with a target of 18 percent. So we really don't need to blame ourselves, we're on our way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Again: The production of electricity from hydropower is currently 69.2 percent, whereas the Federal Republic of Germany can only have about 15 percent. That is why I am very pleased that the Austrian group will again invest in hydropower, such as Ill or Inn power plants. This will also bring us corresponding new amounts of renewable energy. But we are also what is happening to photovoltaics and solar systems, not as bad as it has always been described here today. We are 9th in the context of the 27 European countries in the field of solar or photovoltaics and in the case of solar panels, therefore not poorly positioned. All in all, we have to have a slow energy, to secure the location here in Austria, and to have a durable electricity for both citizens and entrepreneurs, businesses and industry. We need security of supply, we need economic efficiency, and we need environmental compatibility. In Austria, we are very, very good on the road with the measures taken. If we were to adopt an eco electricity law in this House again next week, I would call on the Greens to participate in it and not always leave it in media announcements. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9394	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9415	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Today it should be about photovoltaics, and since, I think, we already fail enormously in Austria. I would like to remind all the political groups that on 9 October, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. September 2008 at a panel discussion in the commercial house in Vienna, all political energy speakers guaranteed and promised that the cover would be removed in the Ecostrom Act. – Now the election campaign is over, and no one remembers it anymore. It is important to get this cover away in Austria. This is far more important than increasing the energy fund from € 21 million to € 50 million, because we have to pay attention to it: In 2008, Austria installed 4.6 megawatt/peak, Germany 1 500, the Czech Republic installed 150, and Austria will come to 10 megawatts in 2009. The job potential should be increasingly exploited. This shows up in Tyrol alone when we look at the company Solon Hilber. She started in Steinach am Brenner 2003 with four employees, today it is 200 employees. It is not the case, as the Minister said, that all this work is being outsourced to the Far East. On the contrary: Among all the free large solar power plants, the company Solon is world market leader. The world's largest solar power plant in Germany – that's the Erlasee estate – has also been built by Solon. If one does not now increase this fund, but guarantees a feed-in rate to 20 years, it will trigger huge investments. According to Dr. Each year, Kronberger installs 600 megawatt/peak without further delay, bringing an domestic turnover of €2.2 billion. I can already remind you that VAT alone amounts to € 440 million a year.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9457	Next speaker: Mr Walser. 1 minute remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9479	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! It has done a remarkable thing this afternoon, and what we have feared has occurred: The FPÖ has fallen into the loop, it has agreed to the government and the new eco electricity law, as the APA has just reported. And this, please, with leave, at the cheapest rate, at a tariff which is actually no longer worth talking! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] We have pointed out this over the past few weeks and, unlike you, we will fight in the interests of the Austrians until the last minute, until Wednesday, in order to bring about further improvements. For what you have done, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, the bottom of the barrel is: They have been dispensed with 35 million – I quote here the APA – private photovoltaic promotion; otherwise nothing at all. Discussions about the need to close the cover, these are not results in this central question for our state. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] So we see, you can't rely on the liberals. Your Federal Party President is on disco tour, is no longer able to follow on the day of a parliamentary session, and you are falling down! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] Yes, this is a typical example of freedom of movement. We're not going to tolerate that, we're going to fight.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9537	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I would ask you to take the seats so that we can vote. – Dr. Fichtenbauer, I would ask you to take your own place to vote. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: I just wanted the attention...!]] [[Abg. Riepl: He's gone!]] We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kickl, ladies and gentlemen, on no opening of the labour market for asylum seekers. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Courts and colleagues on the introduction of an EEG (Renewable Energy Act). If you're for that, I'll ask for a sign. – This does not find a majority and is rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the continuation of the promotion of thermal rehabilitation of private households. If you join him, I'll ask for a sign. – This too does not find a majority and is rejected. [[15:33:20]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9607	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 755/A to 768/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2987/J to 3060/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 3:35 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
