ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e7489	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. ==References====External links== Meeting of 16 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 17 March 1990 In June 2009, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. On today's day, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Faul, Praßl, Dr. Pilz, Lunacek and Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, whom I congratulate very much on her Sebastian – I think, also in your name. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e7526	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Maria Fekter and the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner is represented by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, Family and Youth Christine Marek.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e7570	Mr Kogler spoke on business. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e7594	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I raise objections to the agenda: Agenda item 11, Environmental Impact Assessment Act, is to be dropped as it has not been dealt with in the relevant Environmental Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I also request a debate on this subject in accordance with Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e7641	Mr Bucher spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e7665	Madam President. High house! We also raise objections in accordance with § 50 of the Rules of Procedure. Reasons: The EIA Act has not been allocated in accordance with business regulations, because it has been entrusted to the Economic Committee instead of the Environment Committee. show. That is why we raise objections and want Agenda item 11 to be taken from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e7701	In addition, Mr Hofer, within the meaning of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, raised written objections to the agenda of today's sitting, namely against the 2009 EIA law on the agenda. Mr Hofer, however, has also spoken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e7731	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The population of Austria has the right to have its elected mandates, who are also well paid, exercise their activity here in the House according to the best of their knowledge and conscience. To this end, it is necessary that the materials be allocated the right committees, because precisely in these committees those people who are intensively concerned with the subject matter are sitting in these committees. It was therefore an error to assign the EIA law to the Economic Committee. That is why we raise objections to the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e7764	I am not in favour of the objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. The debate and the vote on the objections will take place after the current hour. [[09:12:22]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e7792	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Austria’s replies to the current economic situation and situation in international financial markets” I announce that the current hour and subsequent debates will be broadcast live by the ORF by 1 p.m. Mr Klubobmann's head is the first to speak with a 10-minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e7822	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister and Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, before I come to the real issue, let me make a few comments on a current situation. We are currently experiencing the worst rains in Austria for many years, if not decades. Whole strips of land in our country are flooded, damage to houses of fifty times, fear people for their existence or have already lost them. Thank God there is rapid help from the communities, from the countries, from the covenant, from the neighbors, from many volunteer helpers, from forces in fire brigades, rescue organizations and so on. Let me express our sympathy for the people affected by this disaster, including our help, but above all let me say thanks to the many neighbours, to the many assistants who assist these people in these difficult hours. [[General condolences.]] Now on the real issue. We are in a veritable crisis worldwide. Austria is indeed – thank God! – a country that can have special competitiveness, which can have special wealth, special income sizes, but still we are not spared from this crisis – unfortunately, one must say – even if we may be able to cope with the crisis there or there better than others. At first, investors who entrusted their money to people in good faith were affected by products that then proved themselves to be deceptive or even worse, at least not to be. In the meantime, the crisis has arrived in the production of property, which is to a great extent, and unfortunately, small and medium-sized enterprises in industry, commerce, services and tourism are increasingly affected. We need to talk about it – we do it – and, of course, we also need to act. We have often acted in the past, and we will certainly do something in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is also – thank God! – also one of those countries in the world that is at the forefront of the social system. We are at the top of the world, which is the social rate. 30 percent of our gross domestic product goes into social transfers. We have one of the lowest amounts in the world between the lowest and the highest incomes. But we cannot dispute away that we have problems related to poverty in several areas. Families, especially with several children, are affected or at least always in danger of falling into the poverty trap. [[Abg. Oils: unemployment!]] The consumer society contributes to this. Older people are increasingly in need of care – we need to focus even more on this issue – especially older people who are alone. And, quite correctly, Mr Oellinger, unemployment is very often also the gateway to poverty or the beginning of the risk of poverty. We need to talk about it, but we must not only talk, but also act. We have also acted on many occasions. I have already pointed out that we have one of the world's highest social standards. A third point, ladies and gentlemen: Austria can also be seen what the ecological standards are. We are also one of the top countries in terms of the environmental situation of Austria in international comparison, but climate change and natural disasters are not to be discussed away, are not to be denied, and we must make sure, above all, that our children do not suffer from the fact that we do not now consume resources that we do not now consume the future of our children. In addition to speaking, we also have to act, and even there we do not need to hide in view of the actions we have put in the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Back to the current crisis situation. We have done a lot to deal with this crisis: Savings are guaranteed, the credit economy is strengthened, we have supported the economy with economic packages, we have relieved taxpayers, especially with a great focus on families with children, we have secured jobs by expanding short-term work opportunities, we have strengthened environmental liability, we have introduced an eco-premie – we have also talked about the problems in this context, but we have also acted and solved problems. We are also successful in dealing with the crisis. The European Council has once again noted that our measures have been adopted in a timely and appropriate manner and to an appropriate extent. That is, ladies and gentlemen, you see here a coalition, as I once mentioned it, of practical reason ahead of you. It shows itself in concrete action and action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We can also point out with pride, as I believe, another point in this crisis situation, namely that in Austria an organisation helps an institution to cope with this crisis: social partnership. From many countries, we are envied by the fact that we have a good cooperation between the social partners, but above all in interaction with politics – also a contribution to the fact that we may be able to cope with the crisis a little better than others. One thing is also mentioned at this point: In the meantime, we can also rely on a functioning international partnership. Let us imagine that we are not a member of the European Union, we do not have the euro to stabilise – where would we be then? A few examples from other countries show how much worse it is for those who are not in this Community who cannot rely on the solidarity of this Community and who do not have the euro as a stability anchor than we do. Let us be glad that we made the right decision in 1994! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is also a time after the crisis. We are well positioned and will certainly get out of this crisis faster and better than some other countries, but we must not disappear from having some structural weaknesses in this country that we need to deal with now, at least to alleviate. The division of competence between the different levels of local authority, the efficiency of public administration, education, the health system – these are only a few areas where we urgently need to seek more efficiency and where we have pressure to reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] An appeal to all those involved: Refusal to these issues only prolongs the crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last thing: We also have international reform pressure. We need new game rules in the financial world, we need game rules for global competition. The Pope recently published a social cycle and wrote something right in it. He calls for a world economic reform authority. I believe that all the democratic forces in this world are called upon to form this world authority together and to define new rules of play ethically, as we will be dealing with and managing each other in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] One last thing about crisis management: Ladies and gentlemen, we also need a rethinking in society. We need more civil society involvement on this issue instead of more public-hand claims. It is time for more solidarity in the family, time for more neighborhood assistance, time for more voluntary engagement, and it is also time for politics to give these achievements to our society again a greater priority than it did in the past perhaps there or there.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e7935	We now come to the opinion of Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance. 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e7956	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Karlheinz Kopf has described the situation, the financial and economic conditions in which Austria, even Europe and the world are located. I am coming back from the Euro Group, the meeting of the European Finance Ministers, which took place on Monday and Tuesday. We have discussed the situation very intensively, and we can see clearly and clearly that we are in the deepest recession of the Second Republic. It is true that even in these weeks the economic forecasts are more likely to show down, to be corrected down, and we have not yet fully reached the valley floor of crisis-like development, and there is no reason to say that the upturn can already be truly sustainable and noticeable. These are the conditions before which we stand. I am therefore also very glad that in these days in Parliament we also show competence on how we want to deal with this crisis together. A number of decisions are being taken to help Austria get through this crisis better than other countries, and to get out of this crisis faster than other countries. And we also need these key points, which I will address later, which are appropriate to the decision-making process. We also discussed in great detail yesterday, in the circle of the Finance Ministers, how it looks about the deficit procedures for countries, including Austria, which cannot meet the framework conditions of the Stability Pact. There is an evaluation by the European Commission of Austrian financial and economic policy, which clearly shows one thing: The Austrian crisis management programme has been set up large enough and in time. This distinguishes us from many other European countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Commission shall issue this certificate. We have also taken clear steps in the fight against the crisis, with a total volume of €5.7 billion, about 2% of our gross domestic product, one of the largest economic packages in Europe, and we can say today that these packages also work. We have enforced and implemented tax relief, which directly benefits people in the form of €2.3 billion and strengthens purchasing power. Here too, we see the first positive effects. If we look at sales tax developments, wage tax developments in Austria in spite of and because of these packages, we are positively surprised to note that despite the crisis, domestic consumption is still the bearing pillar. This too clearly distinguishes us from other European countries because we have put in place the right measures at the right time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a second point. I am firmly convinced that it has never been so important in politics to do the right thing at the right time. We are in a very sensitive phase. Any message, any statement, any wrong decision can have a fatal effect on how we deal with the crisis together. That is why it is absolutely counterproductive to start a debate or try to start, for example, to reflect on tax increases after we have relieved and strengthened purchasing power. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The time is absolutely the wrong one. It is also wrong to discuss this question, because this would deepen the downturn and inhibit the upturn. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in such difficult times, we have also given the right answer from the Federal Government in a central responsibility of policy with two packages. Of course, it is a matter of keeping people in employment, of course, that we should do everything we can to ensure that people do not have to leave the farms, but, together with businesses, we can also deal with this crisis. With the labour market package II and with the measures provided for in it, we have given absolutely correct answers, with the improvement and extension of short-term working arrangements to 24 months, with the improvement of educational leave – it is important to think especially in the crisis of training and qualification for the post-crisis period – with greater flexibility and also with the simplification of part-time work, the third major package within this labour market package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we also have something that we can be proud of in this crisis, Austria has just achieved a bonus in recent years. Due to a precautionary financial and economic policy, by setting up right measures, we are still better there today than many other European countries. All economic forecasts show that despite the clear minus we have in Austria, countries like Germany, including other European Union countries with a much stronger recession, have to fight with a much higher unemployment rate than Austria. Austria is the second best country in the European Union in terms of unemployment, and we are also second in the field of youth unemployment in the Netherlands. This does not fall from heaven, but it is the measures that have been taken in recent years and serve as a basis for building on it today better than others. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Silhavy.]] Austria is a country that lives very strongly on the export economy. 60 percent of our gross domestic product is generated in export, and it is obvious that this is the biggest challenge. In terms of goods exports, the export industry has recorded a minus of 15 percent in Austria, minus 10 percent in real estate production. That hurts and demands us very much. That is why we also need to make a clear statement on this issue of export promotion, export guarantees, on all the topics supporting export, and we want to do so, because in Austria there is a lot of, actually disproportionately much to a functioning export economy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now to the corporate liquidity strengthening law. Unlike other countries, we do not want in Austria that at the end of this crisis there is the resurrection of the nationalists, we do not want to invest offensively in businesses on the part of the state, thus becoming “better” – under quotation – entrepreneurs because we cannot. But what we do with this law is something else. We ensure that there are liquidity bottlenecks, with liabilities and guarantees in the background, together with the banks and with the economy, orderly financing possibilities. This is the task we have and we want to realize. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want this law to lead healthy companies into the future, i.e. to build a bridge over the crisis into the future for these companies and thus for the thousands of employees. It is the task of the state to help for a certain period of time, i.e. in the coming years, but not to engage as an owner. With €10 billion, this is a package that will help give the right answers for the companies, for the employment situation in Austria. We will also provide the right answers for small and medium-sized enterprises with an extensive package in the field of AWS, on the issue of capitalisation, but also through much higher credit, guarantee and liability frameworks than we have foreseen in the past. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, we must be clear that at the end of the day, after the crisis, we have a common task. We have also discussed this intensively within the framework of the Finance Ministers. We must start today to think about how we organize consolidation, the reduction of deficits and also the increased budgets. There is a clear commitment on my part to the fact that at the right time, when there is a stable upturn, we will take the right measures to consolidate the budget. It is important to be committed to preparing for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oil: Who pays?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is also very clear that the international challenges have increased for us. International cooperation is under way. Finally, there is a law that is on the table today as a law for the enforcement of military aid. Austria has become aware of this, in the sense of greater tax-honority for foreigners and To provide foreigners with better information without attacking the banking secret for Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's wrong!]] I appeal to you, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen – there are very crucial moments in voting on this law, we need a two-thirds majority; Like other countries, Austria has become aware of providing faster and better information for foreign investors in Austria –: Whoever prevents this law is massively damaging the economic location of Austria, because we do not get down from the grey list, and also covers tax sinners and tax evasioners! [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's where you brought us up!]] That can and will not be our goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why my appeal, ladies and gentlemen, you agree with this law! Don't harm the country, not the economic location! [[Calls to the Greens.]] You will also have the responsibility if we do not get off this list. It's a unique opportunity. It is the right law at the right time to achieve more tax honesty.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e8109	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Krainer has now come to speak. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e8138	Madam President. On the question: Is politics the right response to the economic crisis, to the international situation in the financial markets? In Austria, politics has given a number of answers, not only this Federal Government, but also the previous Federal Government, not only this Parliament, this National Council, but also the Predecessor's National Council. I remember that we have already decided the first part of the tax reform quite exactly one year ago, after which all those who earn up to €1 300 gross were relieved by reducing unemployment insurance contributions on average by €25 per month, about €400 per year. That was certainly one of the first steps, one of the first answers to politics, and that was not a bad answer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Here, after the outbreak of the international financial crisis in September, October last year, we unanimously decided on the bank package, wherever, I believe, we have given an answer, namely that we have secured the savings by saying that every savings book will be secured by us at any level, limited for this crisis, and we provide sufficient resources to ensure that the banking system, the economic system remains stable. A unanimous decision here in the House, and I think that was not a bad answer either. Just one month later, we decided on the SME package for small and medium-sized enterprises, for companies up to 250 employees, promotion opportunities, support, liability possibilities, exactly in the crisis, exactly at the right time, entered into force with 1. January of this year, also very quickly and in time and not a bad answer in times of crisis. We have decided on a reasonable pension increase. We have known that we have a small influence on exports, because in order for goods and services to be requested abroad, politics in Austria cannot contribute much. But what we can do is to make sure that domestic consumption remains semi-stable, and therefore, of course, the increase in pensions and then, above all, the tax reform, the second part of which, in the amount of some billion, on average, has brought a reduction of 35, 50, 70 € depending on the level of income. [[Abg. Oils: Increase in unemployment benefit!]] That was exactly the right and a good answer to domestic demand to keep domestic consumption as a support for the economy in Austria. And, Mr Federal Minister, I was not surprised because I assumed that if we make the right policy, domestic consumption will become a supporter, and so was it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it may also be related to the fact that for months we have called for the pre-imposition of the tax reform, where you have still hesitated to take this step, but we are pleased that you are now, at least in retrospect, saying yes, it was the right step and yes, in this difficult economic situation, we have also given a very important and correct answer. We have also given correct answers with the budget, with the short work here, favouring investment, increasing public demand. We have done just the right thing about investing in education, research and development. As far as education is concerned: Minister Schmied said two hours more. This has not come about because the teachers have said that we agree to a salary ban in the equivalent of one hour. And this is not to be underestimated now that teachers in Austria have renounced part of their salary of between €20 and €70 per month in exchange for this one hour. And this is a contribution that this professional group has made, and one must recognise this from the political point of view. Not only does politics give the right answers, but most of the population also give the right answer, as in this case the teachers. Today, however, we also give answers – the Federal Minister has already pointed out – with the corporate liquidity strengthening law – a real break in tongues. In this case, we are concerned that what we have done for small businesses up to 250 employees should also apply to larger businesses with more than 250 employees. It is intended to enable them to expand with liabilities instead of simply reducing the labour force. It is also a correct answer that we are giving today. Another answer that we should give today is the question of whether or not the banking secret for tax evasion should be misused. I am of the opinion that, no, it should not be, and it would be reasonable for the House to give the answer here with the necessary majority, i.e. the two-thirds majority: No, the banking secret must not be abused for tax evasion!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e8187	Mr Amon is now speaking at five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e8208	Madam President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the dramatic floods, the overall situation, particularly in the labour market, is a very dramatic one, triggered by the economic crisis as a result of the financial crisis with which we have to fight not only here in Austria, but throughout Europe and everywhere in the world. The Austrian Federal Government, above all the Finance Ministers, has responded in the form of absolutely right measures and has taken turns. Consider, for example, the bank package which ensures the savings of Austrians, we think of taking over various liabilities in order to give industry a bearing on them, but above all we are thinking of the very comprehensive measures – a result of social partnership negotiations with the Minister of Economic Affairs, the Heads of Government – for the labour market and the labour market! [[Abg. Grosz: The bank package is a good example!]] The measures that have been put in place and which are correct, in particular those provided in the labour market service, are not high enough, even if the figures are dramatic, ladies and gentlemen. The short work as a vehicle – more can't be – to get over the crisis is not a permanent solution, but something that tries to give people hope in a very difficult, very dramatic situation. The crisis was not triggered here in Austria, it was not triggered by entrepreneurs, nor by industrial entrepreneurs, but in reality by an unprecedented soccer industry. Now it is actually about creating framework conditions and setting up measures – not only here in Austria, but also internationally – to ensure that such a situation does not repeat once again after this crisis. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance is very much in favour of ensuring, in difficult international negotiations, that Austria is also involved in those measures that are necessary to ensure that tax benefits are actually provided in the respective countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Newborn: That's it!]] All these measures, ladies and gentlemen, that we can take today to deal with the crisis, all the measures that are being put in place in our neighbouring countries, in Europe, in order to deal with the crisis, all these measures are financed by tax money, in the end, by all of us, ladies and gentlemen. That is why the subject of tax justice also includes the timely delivery of taxes, and this is a duty of citizens, ladies and gentlemen, and we must do everything we can to ensure that tax justice will also help break through. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore completely incomprehensible to me – and I would like to say that clearly: it is completely incomprehensible to me! – why the opposition parties do not wish to comply with an international agreement that ensures cooperation if a neighbouring country or another State has a reasonable suspicion that there is, for example, a tax refugee in Austria, and if there is a situation that this person does not participate in the investigation of questions raised by the respective tax authorities. That you want to protect such tax refugees, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that is not to be understood! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] All States have become aware of the implementation of OECD standards, including Switzerland, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have ignored OECD all the time!]] And we are the only country – Mr Kogler, the only country! – which these OECD standards are not ready to meet. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are so hypocritical! You know that very well!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] This is unacceptable, Mr Kogler. Move, don't block here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I really want to invite you to ensure that we are not affected by economic measures in this regard. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You say the untruth!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] You know exactly that the next G 20 summit will take place in early September. The other industrialised countries are expecting progress on how to show Switzerland, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein. [[Abg. Bucher: Nothing will happen at all, my colleague!]] Do not risk companies, jobs and the economic prosperity of Austria through your blockade!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e8427	The next speaker is Mr Weinzinger. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e8448	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government! High house! Today’s issue is “Austria’s replies to the current economic situation and the situation in international financial markets”. And what was discussed in the last two speeches? – On banking secrecy, on why we have to give up and why we have to take the first step – because it calls for the EU to do so! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: No,...!]] And because we think it's right, I'm just listening to the government bank. Not because it demands the EU, but because it is so correct and important. In fact, this has nothing to do with our topic today, but in this context the whole thing is being brought about – it is an abuse of the subject, I almost believe! – because you want the two-thirds majority. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right, that's an abuse of the theme!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Raiffeisen...!]] You have obviously promised it to anyone, and perhaps you're having a hard time doing it – and you're right to be hard on it! Ladies and gentlemen, I have been thinking yesterday about what will come today if this issue is actually being dealt with. I've had to wait a long time before I finally got from the clubman of the ÖVP what I expected, first of all the statement that we've set up an excellent bank package, and second – I've learned something completely new, I'm really gone! – that you have to take the right measures at the right time. – That too was said by both gentlemen. Please, this is a matter of course without any equal! Of course, the right measures must be taken at the right time, and you have not done so, especially with regard to tax reform. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For more than a year, we have been preaching in this House that tax reform needs to be implemented as quickly as possible, for reasons of justice. This tax reform, which has been implemented so far, is not a tax reform in itself, but it is nothing but a adjustment of the current rates of taxation, which are no longer voting because of the progressive inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, a tax reform is something else! It intervenes, which changes the economy, which improves the economy. Now we are only improving the situation of taxpayers, to the extent that it is at least fair; that was all. That was your answer to the economic crisis, you say. Actually, that was something you had to do. They would have made this tax reform with or without economic crisis – a tax reform that, as I said, was not a real tax reform and has come too late. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in one way, as I say somewhat overstretched, you have chained night and fog action a bank package with which you have secured the banks and which we have agreed to, because you have come with arguments that were coherent – not you but were behind you, please, your banks. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: And you agreed!]] [[Abg. Strache: Who have never been redeemed! They have never been redeemed by Mr Molterer, Minister of Finance!]] However, they have not done the right thing in the final effect of this bank package – and this is true of us – because if we already support banks, then we should have had to check the banks in their activities, in their action and in their response to this support, if possible through the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Bucher: Molterer...!]] And where is it checked? – Nothing is checked! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The banks demand, and no one knows how much they pay to their managers, how much they spend on their mismanagement for bonus payments and the like. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was another finance minister!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We want the Minister of Finance Molterer back!]] Ladies and gentlemen, your response and your response to the current economic situation and to the situation on the international financial markets were extremely weak: on the one hand, a tax reform that was already enshrined in the government agreement – and which was too late – and on the other hand a bank package in which you did not include the corresponding regulatory ones. That wasn't a satisfactory answer, you have to write behind your ears.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e8610	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e8631	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! I should also like to comment on the floods that have plagued us in the last few days and weeks. I hope that the solidarity of the government parties will also show itself and that they will also make a monetary contribution to the victims, because we know that there is relatively little resources in the disaster fund; and if the individual financial demands now come, it is necessary to improve there. Therefore, we show full solidarity with the victims and feel great gratitude for all those who have been in the service of the case in recent days: all voluntary organizations and helpers and, above all, the public hand. We insist that, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Government will show itself accordingly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But today we are discussing the answers of the Federal Government to the current economic crisis, to the financial crisis. Mr Vice-Kanzler, Minister of Finance, if you have already so gloriously listed the various measures you have taken in recent months to address this economic crisis, then do not forget to mention that at the time when you discussed and negotiated this at the level of the government parties, we had to expect a 1.52 per cent decline. Then you have put in place measures – in our view, of course, the wrong ones that are not effective enough – to meet the economic crisis. Today we know that the decline in the economy will be 4.5 or possibly 5% at the end of the year. This is a clear indication that you have put in place the completely wrong measures and that you have committed much too late to the crisis budget you have presented to us here. You should have put forward a budget in February of this year in order to obtain the corresponding orders from the public to the real economy. Every mayor and head of state knows that the real economy does not receive orders if you wait a very long time. These have been the essential and essential mistakes you have made, Minister of Finance. Therefore, when we compare the individual economic packages at European level and those of our neighbouring countries – for example, with those of our important trading partner Germany – we see that Germany has driven 3 percent of the gross domestic product in terms of resources for dealing with the economic crisis. On average, the European Union has moved 1.5 percent of resources to address this economic crisis, and Austria has spent only 0.3 percent to counter this economic crisis. That is certainly too little, Minister of Finance. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They should have put in place proper, effective and, above all, more comprehensive measures to tackle the economy. If you are now going to a tax reform discussion, such as the SPÖ, then this is the wrong time, because the economy now needs hope, the economy now needs sig-nale, so that now also the public hand and the Federal Government provide assistance. Every discussion on tax increases is counterproductive, especially in view of what is now at stake, namely the sluggishing and devastation sacrobatics you operate at the federal level. This is what you want to do in the direction of taxation on small and medium-sized enterprises, and this is all about those companies that want to be able to provide services in our country that maintain this economy. That means that this is the wrong signal at the wrong time. Now, ladies and gentlemen, a tax-lowering discussion should be initiated. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Kickl:... million... make good!]] But what economic policy means, we also see this from the example of the AUA and the ÖBB. At the time of the sale of AUA we missed the Lufthansa €500 million, at the ÖBB 600 million € were speculated and at the Skylink airport project, €900 million will be lost at the end of the day. If you calculate all these amounts that are the result of this red and black economic policy of our country, then you will come to the sum of the tax relief of about €2 billion that you have adopted in this year. These are the red and black economic policies and the chamber policy of the Chamber of Workers of the country that is underlying us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] It would be much more reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, if you were finally to start to resolve this credit terminal – these brakes – so that the economy can get to money. Because without this money that is urgently needed, the economy cannot work and obviously cannot be stimulated. That's the most elementary problem. There you can decide a hundred economic packages if the banks do not give money, then all these economic packages are completely for nothing. If these are the answers to the challenges of the economic crisis, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, you have asked yourself the wrong questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e8701	Mr Van der Bellen has now come to speak. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e8722	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Too bad, it was an up-to-date issue on important issues – international financial markets, current economic situation – and Klubobmann's head is not saying a single word on this issue. I do not believe that even the words “international financial markets” have occurred in his speech. That was the usual, not saying... – Sorry, Mr. Kopf, you can then read the record of your own speech and see if I am right or not. [[Abg. Head: Is not true at all! It's not true! Look at the record!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] Mr Pröll, Minister of Finance, is marginally better, he is nevertheless taking a position on a number of points, but he then abuses this current hour to say, which is a source of tears as far as banking secrecy for foreigners is concerned. After years of fruitification by the ÖVP, for decades only, you suddenly come to mind – under international pressure from the OECD, the EU and what else I know, the G 20, otherwise they would never have come to do – because at last something to do. [[Abg. May. Kogler: For decades!]] [[Abg. Amon: Now you are against it!]] Now, seriously, because you think it's because you're ringing us, we're running and saying: Yes, please, where can I sign?! - After a moment! [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] The ÖVP wants something, Mr Kopf, and we want something, and if we agree on this, then there is a two-thirds majority, and if you switch to it, then you will not get it. That's your decision. But just because you're whistling, we won't be running with it. You have to befriend yourself over time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: There will be reasonable powers at the end!]] Mr. Finanzminister, you spoke about the Austrian bonus. – What is this Austrian bonus? I say something else to you, which is where I see an Austrian malus, unfortunately. You can of course tell us everything you can about the positive assessment of Austria, and it is not all wrong. I'm also proud of the successes of the past. But what's now? The spread, the difference between the interest rate and German federal bonds, remains at 60 to 80 basis points. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: He was at 130!]] He was in the autumn at 130, he was at 140 in spring, not least triggered by the smooth handling of the Federal Government with the Eastern Europe questions. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That means, depleted! That means, improved!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Proll: (shaking the head) Go away!]] [[Abg. Head: Ask the IMF once he learns to calculate!]] I am sure that the Minister of Finance, in particular, has caused panic by this unthinking spontaneous journey to the Eastern European capitals in the financial markets. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Go, please!]] [[Abg. Amon: That was very successful!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Konrad private jet was that!]] [[Abg. Strache:... Raiffeisenjet!]] At that time, Minister of Finance, the spread was shot at 140 points to calm down. That never happened to my whole experience and memory. Even at schilling times, the so-called spread was never more than 10 to 30 basis points, and now it is double to three times as high. This is the Austrian malus, as it is estimated by international financial markets. And as long as nothing is done about it on various points, it will remain the same. For example, Mr Finanzminister, it would have been an opportunity to say today how you imagine the exit strategy from these debt data. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: You demand even more debts!]] After the usual plattites of Mr Kopf and Mr Pröll, nothing at all! The exit strategy from this high debt, which will rise by 70, 80, perhaps 100 billion € – no more schilling – within a few years, with the corresponding interest burden on the budget, after what does it look like? What will you do? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You want more debts!]] I would like to know that the House would like to know this, and the international financial markets – which would have been supposed to be today – would like to know this too, to assess the credit quality of the Austrian debtor, the Republic of Austria. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Don't talk Austrian bad!]] Yes, certainly if you take seriously the issue of an hour's current economic situation and international financial markets, which was finally proposed by the EIA, I hear from the background – I repeat it for colleagues who have not heard it – that: Don't talk Austrian bad! Yes, Lord, can one now talk about the Austrian problems, or should we sit inside, with the Burkha possibly, the opposition fractions anyway, so that ÖVP and SPÖ can give each other incense? [[Rejoicing and congratulation with the Greens]] Today, Minister of Finance, we are adopting a law on credit liability and guarantees of the Republic for companies. This is in principle good, but only for large companies. What are we doing for the small companies? [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: We've done something for them already!]] You could have told us about the ECOFIN Council, Mr Finanzminister, or what about Basel II, this procyclical regulation in this area. You didn't do anything. You have to read this in the paper. However, I also read in the newspaper – this is today’s “Press” – that you said to the German Minister for Finance: There is no credit terminal in us, and the credit terminal has become disillusioned, says Minister of Finance Pröll. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That's right? A few weeks ago – I remember well – you said that there is no credit terminal in Austria at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where then?]] Now, all of a sudden, she's gotten upset! Shame about this opportunity to discuss important questions thoroughly and seriously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9020	Mrs Hagenhofer is next spoken at 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9041	Estimated visitors to the gallery! Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to bring you a quote from the “standard” from an entrepreneur who is internationally active and comes from my district, namely Braunau in Upper Austria: We've all served the bubble. Money was a conmodity, and this is now becoming a gem. It is precisely there, ladies and gentlemen, that I believe we must push and name the crisis. Why? What was the slogan? – The slogan was: Let your money work! And precisely because of these high-risk speculations in the money market, the financial crisis has broken out, which has just pushed down economic growth. The impact on the real economy in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular with us in the district of Braunau – we are a very automotive-oriented district – took place on 6 June. In October 2008, I didn't want to keep that from happening to you, that companies called me and said: Mrs. Hagenhofer, we don't know what's going on. Over the night, 40 percent orders were canceled, 50 percent orders cancelled. We don't know the reasons. The other reasons were, according to discussion with the subcontractors: We don't know for ourselves, we were surprised ourselves. We will now prep the Christmas holidays and it with Open Leave it that way for now. What were the consequences? – There has been a rapid increase in unemployment among us in the district, and the problems have been particularly great for the people, insofar as in many areas married couples have also been affected, partners, partners have been affected, with children who have come to me and have said: Mrs Hagenhofer, what can we expect from unemployment benefit? What's up to us? My husband will be unemployed. I'm already unemployed. We have two children. – I then told them what to expect from unemployment benefit, what the woman’s answer was: And now we will go to the carpenter and our kitchen that we have actually planned for Easter, cancel. – There were and still are many such fates. If you assume – and it is so – that usually a new life begins after nine months, and if I look at the labour market data of my district today, ten months later, I have to say that I do not want to keep them away from you either. Now we are there that it is currently looking so that, starting with 110 percent order situation, which the companies usually had in the previous year in June, July, we had a rapid crash and this crash slightly continues, so to speak, in a straight line, not to the top, but in a very straight line, that is, it does not move. Our district has 90 000 inhabitants, of which about 35 400 are self-employed. And now, ladies and gentlemen, it is so that of these approximately 35 400 employees 5 585 are in short work, 3 558 are unemployed and in training, 210 people in education care, and, on the other hand, 256 are open jobs. That is to say, the market is actually dead or silent if you want to. It is therefore urgently necessary to do something. All the measures that my colleague Jan Krainer has already mentioned were important and necessary because otherwise it would have gone further down. But my final request to you, Minister of Finance, is to think about the total increase in unemployment benefit, because if the crisis persists in general, then we will not find a way out with the increase in the basis of assessment, because people will fall much more, much more into poverty. And if young people tell me I'm 22 now and I don't want anything like work, that's a signal to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9093	Mr Auer has now come to speak. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9114	Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hagenhofer described in a dramatic, realistic manner the effects of such an economic crisis, which is dominant in a region in which she is at home, in our federal state of Upper Austria. Yes, it is right, but it should also say that, ladies and gentlemen, the country of Upper Austria has supported and made available a corresponding liability package for this region and for this head office in this region. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is rare that a topic of a current hour is really as up-to-date as today, namely: Are the answers that Austria has given the right ones to this challenge? Are the answers to this current economic situation and the situation in international financial markets what people expect and what is necessary? For more than a quarter of a year, we have experienced exciting, difficult, even dramatic times, and the world economy – perhaps not quite unexpected for some insiders, but whether it is not expected to do so – has carried out a 180-degree turnaround. Businesses almost all sectors had to adapt to the new, difficult conditions, change the strategy, sometimes also put in painful measures, as sad as this is. It shows itself once again: The more industrial a country is and the economy is, the more difficult it is and the more noticeable these dramatic changes are. Business banks, ladies and gentlemen, because banks are always so critical, are necessarily affected by these market developments. Even if they have not made subprime or other investments in highly risky securities, the suddenly decreasing interest rate level on all money markets, the credit changes of international financial institutions, and ultimately the freezing of liquidity due to the high loss of trust also have an impact on traditional business models. What are the Federal Government's responses to the challenges mentioned? – A bank package has been chained. Yeah, that's been misdesigned, but it was the right measure. It is therefore wrong to mention that it is not a bank package to help banks on their own, but to secure the deposits for the savers and to maintain the credit economy within a reasonable framework, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As an accusation made by a previous speaker today, that the banks would have been safeguarded, but you didn't know what the managers were getting paid for: Mr Weinzinger, Annual Report! It stands literally inside, stating exactly how high the payment of the Board of Directors of the Upper Austrian Raiffeisenlandesbank is. You can read it. Because of your expertise, it's not a problem for you. Secondly, for the accusation that the ÖBB would have been thrown out of the money: There was a colleague there once. What's his name? - Gorbach. Ladies and gentlemen, some of these circles still went hand in hand through the area and were proud of this Minister Gorbach. What has become of it, we know. [[Abg. Bucher: You were in the government!]] Be proud of the Deputy Chancellor Gorbach, be proud of him! But if the result is not that way, you should also confess, not only be proud of it. Ladies and gentlemen, to the constant accusation that the credit clamp was given that the banks did not make the money available to the economy: For my bank, for the Raiffeisenlandesbank Upper Austria, I'll tell you a code: In the previous year, there was an increase in the financing performance of 32.7 percent. That is why I expressly reject this accusation for this bank. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In view of this crisis, we should consider again, especially this block here in the middle: How would it be if we were not with the European Union? How about we have the schilling, ladies and gentlemen? - We have a dramatic effect. Therefore, you should go a little bit, think, and perhaps consider the then measure, accession, as right, and be grateful to Alois Mock and the then Federal Government under Vranitzky, that it was so decided and that the people in Austria were more reasonable than you have tried to influence it here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] – Mr Commissioner, be a little careful about credit clamps. There you have a colleague in your ranks, who obviously has one. Think a little bit about it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another note: Otherwise, international standards always preach. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to introduce an international standard, an OECD directive. Think about what you always demand – and then you will surely agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9185	Mr Königshofer has now come to speak. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9206	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! The worst economic crisis in modern times is only in Austria, and its impact will become fully felt for our economy in the coming weeks and months. Already in 2007, the so-called subprime crisis broke out in the U.S., and this has subsequently been hit by a crisis in the US real economy by the US car companies having serious difficulties and now partly insolvent or facing insolvency. The situation became quite brilliant in September 2008, when the large investment bank house Lehman Brothers finally had to report insolvency. I would like to make a brief comment on US financial policy. The then U.S. finance minister Paulson under the Bush government has looked at Lehman Brothers' creditor structure and found that to a lesser extent US citizens and institutions are creditors, but to a greater extent Europeans and Asians. And there Mr. Paulson, an enemy of the head of Lehman Brothers, said: No financial assistance from the American State to Lehman Brothers. And this bank had to sign up for bankruptcy. Because so many Europeans were affected, fire was on the roof in Europe. And the EU, in its infinite long-suffering, then said to its 27 members: Let's go! You are allowed to take measures and link packages that we will then already deny you. And so did it. In Austria, too, two laws were passed which were intended to counter this crisis, which was particularly affected by this financial crisis. One was this Financial Market Stabilisation Act for the banks and the Interbank Strengthening Act, which took over liability for savings deposits. That was not wrong, but there are some things to note and criticize. In this bank package, which covers around €100 billion and was only imposed to save and stabilise the banking sector, it is primarily to be criticised that the contracts with the banks are not disclosed. Why are these contracts kept secret? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is about taxpayers, and I feel that in Austria all important financial contracts, from the cross-border leasing contracts to these bank contracts and also the interception contracts, are kept under conclusion. People have a right to know what happens to their money and how their money is handled. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, only two criticism points remain in this banking law. The first is in terms of dividend distribution. It is stated in the law or in the treaties that a dividend distribution takes place only in so far as a cover is given in the current annual profit. For the Hypo Alpe-Adria, which has received €900 million to 8 percent dividend, that would mean – nine times eight is 72 –: If the bank makes only 30 million profits, it could return only 30 million to the state, nothing at all in the event of losses. And that's not to be seen! Every bank customer whose operations make losses is very likely to pay interest to the bank. Here the banks have negotiated not to have to pay dividends in the event of losses. Unacceptable! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The most important thing that emerges from the report of the Federal Minister is that this money comes essentially from the state. You're breaking a taboo here. They can pay the debts of the State and the companies from the Austrian National Bank. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, we have already discussed this. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – You're still on it! Now I'm going to hold something on to the municipal credit: Here it is expressly stated that the money comes from the OeNB. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, Madam President, the municipal loan has received €9.1 billion in cash and liability over the last few months. And for that, for this money, for this affair, I would say, a minister, Dr. Claudia Schmied, is also responsible. She was the Executive Director of the municipal credit from 2004 to 2006, and she also bears responsibility for it. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] Ladies and gentlemen! ...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9306	Ladies and gentlemen, I have given you a lot of time now, but I have to watch the clock! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Lugar with 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9337	Madam President. High house! Mr Finanzminister! You have adopted a double budget for 2009 and 2010, and you have planned it at a time when you had no idea how the economic situation will develop. This also explains why in this budget you have put on only one promill, i.e. a thousandth of the budget, for additional economic recovery programmes. It's just a prom, which is being spent here, and all the billions you're talking about here to combat the crisis are not there for economic recovery, but they're for guarantees for businesses, they're for short work, they're for the AMS and for other things. This is also important and true, Minister of Finance, but it is not an economic recovery programme. The only measure that really invigorates the economy is this one, and this includes, among other things, the thermal rehabilitation measure. However, this measure, the only measure that really works, which has already been booked out within three months, for which no further money is available and where the Minister of Economic Affairs and you, too, persistently refuse to increase the corresponding measure, this measure that works, the only measure that works, which will be suspended by you. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] If you look closely at the measure, you can see that it pays itself. In fact, they finance 20 percent of the investment amount for thermal rehabilitation, which alone is what you get back on VAT – not to mention wage taxes and the prevention of unemployment, for which you should also take money. So that's a measure that pays for itself, and it's not being carried on by you. That's unfortunate. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As a general rule, I want to deal with some misdevelopments. For years the government has watched jobs migrate abroad and we are becoming increasingly dependent on energy imports. In both cases there is a massive flow of value added, and this is frightening, especially worrying. This misdevelopment – especially in the energy question – should not be. Our dependence increases from month to month. There is an example where we can see how we can tackle the problem throughout Austria, namely the example of Güssing. Güssing was the Poor House of Burgenland, the poorest region in all of Austria. Güssing put himself on his feet. There used to be virtually no jobs in Güssing, everyone had to commut. There has been a huge drain of labour, of people, it has been a huge demise in progress. Güssing is now a prosperous region. Güssing has established 50 new businesses, and after Güssing the people move away. [[Abg. Grill: Black Mayor! Black Mayor!]] How did that work? [[Abg. Grill: Black Mayor! Black Mayor!]] Güssing has set himself on the feet and is now producing all the energy it needs himself. That is, Güssing is an energy author, Güssing has invested in renewable energies, Güssing has taken money in order to invest in the future. [[Abg. Grill: Black energy policy! Black energy policy!]] – That is exactly what I recommend, Minister of Finance, to Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In order to make Austria energy self-sufficient, we need 200 billion €. First of all, that looks a lot. But if you compare that we import energy by almost €12 billion each year, it doesn't look so bad anymore. [[Abg. Grillitsch: You adorn yourself with foreign feathers, Mr. Colleague!]] If we are also opposed to the fact that we simply have so 100 billion € available for the banks, but we do not seem to have anything available for our own energy autarchy – then I must tell you, Minister of Finance: [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Prill: You don't know the difference between!]] Make these investments! Make us energy self-sufficient by investing meaningfully by taking money into your hands and investing in projects that create value added in Austria that leave businesses in Austria! Energy produced domestically cannot be produced abroad via companies that do not pay taxes because of group taxation. We create jobs with this measure, we create value added. You, too, Minister of Finance, will have more revenue on VAT and other taxes. Let us deal with this matter wisely! Let's get the money in hand! In a first step, extend the support for thermal renovation, because this measure will allow us to introduce the first step – that is to save energy – towards an energy transition. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] This is good for Austria and good for the Austrian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9456	As the last one in the current hour, Mr Magistrate comes. Kogler with 5 minutes to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9488	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The theme of this current hour is: “Austria’s replies to the current economic situation and the situation in international financial markets” – a topic on the proposal of the ÖVP. It was reserved for ÖVP speakers to stretch the bow from floods to thanksgivings, from the Pope's statements to the world economic order to their sluggish handling of international tax fraud. [[Abg. Grill: Was that wrong?]] That was their bandwidth. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] In between, Mr. Federal Minister Pröll has made it clear which hobby his PR advisor is currently having. He obviously argued that he had to say “rightly ” in every second sentence. He found his mantra of the day, he says: right action at the right time! - Thanks to the volunteer fire brigade! Right measures at the right time! [[Abg. Grill: The Kogler people are sausaged! The Kogler people are meated! The victims of the Kogler!]] Thank the Pope! Right measure at the right time! Thanks to the ÖVP because we are now fighting tax fraud after 25 years of this advance. – This is your system at this current hour. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Don't worry – even if you still have so much in between – we'll get You out, we'll get the ÖVP out of this corner. We are now making a reasonable debate, a reasonable debate on the economy, and there are a few common points. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] - Screams You don't have that much in between! You also have to deal with the seriousness of the situation if you require a current hour! [[Abg. Rädler: But not with you!]] If you want to contribute to something – and I believe that we can at least achieve a real consensus with the majority of the House – then it is important, not just what is to be discussed in Austria and what to do in terms of action – and we should really do so together – that this crisis is showing – in the real economic sector, but only in the financial sector – that it is only more about joint international measures, with coordinated economic and financial policy measures. Whether it's rules, whether it's controls or whether it's active intervention through investive public-hand programs that all works much better when it's made together. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] There is one and one quite more than two. That's a great insight. We could tell you that, too, because that would be a common ground. This would at least benefit us for years and could have remedied the global damage, the Minister of Finance Grasser and others with their economic philosophy – at least in the minds and perhaps also in the hearts of the people – if not constantly hacked around, at least in the area that concerns the Austrian side of action. It's not just pink anymore, there's a roll distribution in here now. You will accept that, Minister of State. If you call on the EU or others to make such a good assessment of our packages, this may also be because the paper works are being considered there. In fact: The sums indicated there, the measures described, even in the laws that we have partly contributed for this reason, do not even look so bad. The problem is in some areas that the reality of action does not correspond to the information and projects. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Paper is patient!]] Let us stick to the so-called SME package. I can only take out a few and perhaps outline some countermeasures. There is clearly the problem that small and medium-sized enterprises are getting loans, but the chewings for these loans are tightened and finally something similar to a credit terminal is created. There is actually the AWS funding instrument. What's going on there? The arrests work with Ach and Krach, but they used to be. The support bank, which should be established there, does not work at all because there is still no bank license from the Republic. And those measures aimed at corporate participations do not work because the competent company has only found its managing director and is currently giving its own rules of procedure. So with permission: This is not really fast, right and in the right place. We have similar problems with other measures. If the term “right” has a meaning somewhere, then where it is about investing properly in the crisis. I'm telling you, the eco-premie is a nonsense. It is therefore also rightly called “the scrap premium. ” [[Call the Greens: Scratch measures!]] In Austria – and there is nowhere else – there is absolutely no question of what new cars they are – whether they are ecologically compatible or not – the full promotion. [[Abg. Rädler: That's not true!]] This is much better in all other countries. We have to go away from supporting areas in the crisis with public resources, in which there is not much to get in the long term. [[Abg. You bastard!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We must come to invest in the future markets. This is why investment in the eco-industry is much smarter than that in industries where nothing can be achieved in the long term. We should agree on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9648	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:29:22]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9670	We shall now proceed to the announced debate on the objections of the honourable Members. Kogler, Bucher and Ing. In each case, the Courts concerning the delegation of item 11 of the agenda, report and request on the draft federal law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000. In accordance with Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I make use of my right to limit the speaking time to 5 minutes in the joint debate and the number of speakers to three per group. First of all, Mr Ing. Hofer. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9697	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Since I am first speakers, I would like to take a lead in this debate that will certainly be led by the government parties, namely that in times when we have a severe economic crisis, it is not appropriate to discuss whether the Environmental Impact Assessment Act will be discussed in the Industrial Committee or in the Environmental Committee. [[Abg. Wheeler: Economy! Economic Committee!]] I know this argument will come, ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to point out that this economic crisis has been triggered by the greed of fewer people, and that in Austria we are not entirely indifferent, because we have people sitting in essential economic areas on the thresholds of power, which are not at all suitable for that, but only have the right party book. Example: Austrian Airlines. – The company was flown to the wall and sent home by the responsible CEO with a million-severe handling. Example: ÖBB. – €600 million speculates, but no financial consequences for those responsible. [[Abg. That's 900!]] [[Abg. Skylink!]] Or: Constantia Privatbank. – The bank went badly, the National Bank shot €50 million, and the three board members collected €30 million in settlement! Most of the money we shot was disbursed by the board of directors. [[Call the ÖVP: Save things!]] And finally, Skylink at Vienna Airport, which is owned by a red and black state. It is true that in 2004 Mr. Kaufmann said that the cost will be € 270 million, but now costs of a billion € will be in the house. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: On the matter!]] And what are you doing, ladies and gentlemen? – The gentlemen are enormously cashing off! A salary increase in 2007 by...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9779	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to interrupt you. We are at the debate and I can urgently ask you to speak on the subject of objection.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9805	Madam President. I come to the conclusion of my introduction – and this is important because this very argument will come from the government parties –: It is precisely those rulers who are responsible for economic damage in Austria that are party members of SPÖ and ÖVP and are hugely disbursed. I know, Madam President, that you do not like to hear this, but it is a fact! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this EIA draft does not benefit the environment or the economy. Citizens' participation is restricted, and in certain cases procedures may take longer. – This is a very important point. By the way, Madam President, I would have liked to have you at the last sitting – I think it was at this meeting when Martin Graf was constantly talking about him, although a completely different subject was on the agenda – to be taken as consistently as possible. Unfortunately, that was not the case at that time! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the process of consulting this matter in the Committee on Industry is only to take the Minister for the Environment out of his responsibility. That's the real reason why you've been consulting there. The parties send their mandates into committees, prepare themselves there, read themselves, acquire expertise – and then put a matter into a completely different committee. This is a process that we cannot carry along, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Rädler: You've gone anyway!]] The procedure you take in parliamentary deliberations is more than tedious. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Good applications are simply postponed. Last example: A request has been submitted by Mr Neubauer in the Committee on Transport, according to which special benefits should be granted to seniors when they are on the train. You then said: Well, that's actually part of the Committee. We said: All right, then, let's assign this to the Committee. No, we don't want to, we'd rather postpone the request, you said. – This is an obscene and dishonest process. [[Abg. Wheelers: on the subject!]] I'll make you a suggestion: If you like requests from the opposition – no matter who we like or probably also from the Greens and the BZÖ – then sign them! That would be the right procedure, but not: delay, conceal and assign false committees, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Wheeler: Incorrect speech!]] – That’s not a wrong speech! [[Call to the FPÖ: The wrong call was that!]] You from ÖVP and SPÖ have given every confidence, ladies and gentlemen! They are an extended arm of the Federal Government and have not recognized that, as parliamentarians, you are very likely to be responsible for making your own ideas and initiatives very self-confident. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Unfortunately, you do not do so, which is why we have also raised these objections to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9909	Mr Hofer, I would just like to say: My task is to comply with the Rules of Procedure, and my task is also to urge the Members of Parliament to comply with the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Vilimsky: But with two measurements!]] [[Call of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner at 5 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e9946	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! There has always been a call from the public authorities during the speeches of my predecessors. . I will deal with the matter, ladies and gentlemen, with our request for the suspension of item 11 from the agenda, because it is above all about the matter – I am telling you, the government parties, and especially Mr Cap – how to deal with the Rules of Procedure and opposition in this House. This is the issue, ladies and gentlemen, and we are quite clear about it. I therefore raised Mr Cap in particular – we have already discussed this a few times – because he was one of the main critics under the Black-Blue government, then Black-Orange, when it came to the fact that the opposition will not be cut in its right hand. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Yes, exactly!]] I remember very well. We have always made sure that the opposition has received appropriate amendments and motions for resolutions 24 hours before the respective debates. Once this has not been the case, there has immediately been a giant vortex: Incredible! That's great! There were colleagues Cap and some other of the current government parties – especially the SPÖ, then in opposition – who said: Now all this will be different. We can say to him – Mr Cap said – that there will now be rights to opposition, minority rights, that the applications will come in time and that they will not be passed. [[Abg. Grosz: It's all wrong!]] We know what reality is, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Grosz: The exact opposite!]] 24 hours is no longer a speech at all! This request, which is on the agenda today, is an § 27 proposal for those who listen and listen and do not know: this is an application which is not on the agenda in the Committee; a request for an application which is or should be in a context of content should be sent by electronic means shortly before the Committee meeting, and it has been approved by the Committee chairman in the Committee on Economic Affairs, although it has not been in any context related to any matter in this Committee. [[Abg. May. Kogler: If at least that is true!]] They wanted it to be held in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and not in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, where he was actually a member. Only: There is the “false” committeeobmann, which is why you wanted to prevent it. It's not right there, because the Committee chairman is not a member of the government groups. – This is how you deal with the Rules of Procedure, so you deal with the opposition! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If you simply say so, you don't want to, maybe next time we don't have committee members who belong to the opposition parties! One even wants to introduce a majority voting right – also again in discussion – because this opposition is disturbing. It may also interfere with the need to get together in a coalition government. Let's just change the right to vote: The winner takes it all – who has more votes, who has the relative majority, gets the mandate! Then, if you have bad luck, you have 20 percent of the voters – as in the UK – but only 3 or 4 percent of the mandates, for which someone who may have 30 percent of the voters can have more than 50 percent of the mandates and can easily rule alone. Then we no longer need to discuss Presidents, because then there are only three more presidents of the strongest group. Then there are only more ministers from one group, and we also need not talk about the requests at all. Then everything is wonderful! You just have to figure out who the number one is – and I wouldn't be so sure who it is. [[Call the ÖVP:The voters!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, if you take yourself seriously here as a parliamentarian, you will probably also admit that it cannot be done in such a way that it cannot go according to the interests of the party secretariats or, above all, the government cabinet, as is the case here in the Austrian House with these requests. Unfortunately, it is not only the case with this request. We will discuss this again today. We have offered our cooperation from the opposition, for example in the reform of the school administration. There is a really good presentation from the Court of Auditors, which really brings savings. We do not need to think about tax increases and how to bring the money together to renovate the economy, but there are concrete ideas from the Court of Auditors as to how to save in school administration. We all agreed on this, yes, we will discuss it, but we want to discuss it quickly. The ÖVP has already slowed down in the “Austria-conversation” and said that we need the countries to do so, we do it only in autumn. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Now, in spite of all the promises made by this subcommittee, I predict that it will not take up its work until autumn and it may eventually end on the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why: Delegate these agenda items from the agenda and from business management where it belongs, namely in the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e10061	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e10082	Madam President. In this case, the form is really treacherous for the content behind it, because it is about the treatment of the so-called environmental impact assessment law here in the house. In reality, you have made this an economic impact assessment law, and in this respect your process was consistent. It's just an illegal business. That is why we are talking about this in the context of an objection debate. Yes, this is a matter assigned to the agenda and to the Committee on the Environment. You yourself, the government has put in a government template. We could rehabilitate this in three days, so that at least the right path is taken here in Parliament. At the beginning, I will also tell you why this is illegal. As my previous speaker mentioned, this is a request which was only submitted to the Committee on the occasion of another request. However, according to § 27 GOG, this must be “in terms of content”. What was the underlying request? – A law that concerns training regulations for guards who have to wait for steam boilers. It's great! With the same reason, we could establish a link with the international agreement with aviation in the Restriction Law, because this has to do with both of them. That's your logic. But it is not about logic at all, but it is simply about the enforcement of certain interests and processes – just as the industry has enforced – in the content of this law. In the same way, you have been misused to use the wrong committee, namely the Economic Committee and not the Committee on the Environment, to get through this whole thing and, as it were, to be formally damaged. That's a disgrace law, that goes completely in the wrong direction! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now you have to look at the history of the origin. There would not have been anything that would have happened again if the EU had not – by the way again in the good – already told three years ago that something had to be changed here. Three years the government needs a novel, but one and a half hours the opposition should only have time – that was exactly the deadline from the transmission to the start of the committee meeting. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's incredible!]] And you think we're just gonna let this happen? – That’s not what it is. You're serious! It will now be the case on several points, together, as Mr Scheibner said, that we simply don't play here. You owe it to yourself, because you can't let that happen at first, and secondly, there has been the announcement of your own practice for years now that there will be another practice here in the house. We will now measure you by what you do. That's why you can't let this go through so easily. If we come back to this law again, it is to be said: It's about serious things! The issue is that citizens' rights will be cut short, that the procedures for damaging the opportunities of the environment will be accelerated, which a lawyer also needs, for which there is something like an EIA law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] And you have not even done what would be the most important thing in this situation, namely, the energy efficiency offer contained in this law, but simply stretched out – simply stretched out on pressure from industry! That's right, you know that very well. But this is a fundamental reason why all of this should have been negotiated in the Committee on the Environment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They are putting it in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. That was intention! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection at the same time. If you were already using the deadlines and § 27 you would have gone to the Committee on the Environment, so that this would not be so bad. But no! We are looking at the excess, we are going to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, because at the end of the day it has a logic, namely the one I am describing to you. There, of course, the Minister for Economic Affairs and not the Minister for the Environment answers. And that also describes the picture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] In the entire negotiating situation, the Environment Minister had to give the staff in the front – that is typical of the ÖVP – and the Minister of Economic Affairs has, in fact, wallowed the law with the industrial association in the back. That's the point: A bad law on behalf of industry you want to sell us as an environmental law! That is why you have dealt with this in your abusive logic in the same way in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. We are here to expose this abuse – first, to re-establish the parliamentary gearbox, and second, to take on our legal role in the environment. Nobody else will. And there you can explain in a hundred Sunday speeches that the ÖVP is now also the environmental party. You have to look at your economic competence somewhere behind you, but we don't need to talk about an “environmental party” anymore. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] And you bring the evidence every day, even here in the house. Our resistance is certainly yours, because you must not leave the environment to you!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e10174	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e10195	High house! I would suggest that we hold the discussion in such a way that the spectators on the television screens also understand us. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Peter Haubner.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] I advocate that all five parties pledge to work for Austria and not to argue. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with greens and FPÖ.]] What has been presented so far is ultimately a dispute, and what you will achieve with it is that you will access TV remote control and either switch off or turn off. That can't be the goal. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is a provocation, Mr. Cap!]] When it comes to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, I must tell you that it contains elements that take into account both climate protection and, of course, speed up the procedures, but not at the expense of industry and not at the expense of the environment, but at the end of the day there must be a decision. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You don't even know about matter!]] Otherwise, no investor can think about it, and the environment does not help either. [[Abg. Grosz: This is the “new” parliamentarianism!]] Therefore, nothing else is planned in this respect except that this law – and it should remain on the agenda today – ultimately creates clarity in the interests of environmental protection, in the interests of the economy and in the interests of jobs, so that this will really be a successful process in these procedures – and nothing else. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: professionally incredible! You've made better speeches!]] If you make yourself and say that there are some secret conspiracys or attacks planned again, we will never come to a common denominator. That is why, unfortunately, there will not be a five-party agreement that I would have thought was very, very good, as on many other points. I do not want to engage in any dispute now, which item of the agenda is dealt with where. I think there are so many important points on the agenda today: the whole complex of anti-corruption legislation that an authority is being introduced in the Ministry of the Interior to combat corruption. Something that is also important is that out of the 100 billion bank liability package 10 billion for businesses with over 250 employees – key businesses in the domestic economy! – be used, so money is taken in hand. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But the environment you want...!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] The labour market package for employment will be discussed here tomorrow. And that's what you want to cover with a little fight. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's ridiculous!]] Please work with us in the interests of Austria and do not try to give us a wrong picture of our work in Parliament! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to say something about minority rights, because many of those who watch, electorate, have, in varying degrees, elected the parties represented here. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz:... more and more non-electors!]] We continue to confess that we have a reasonable approach to the opposition. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Ah so?- Oh, my God!]] I admit that this has succeeded in over 90 percent, but it has not succeeded in all the proposals because the negotiations – the discussions here in the house, but also the many discussions with people outside Parliament – have led to a delay. I admit that. We accept the criticism. That is right, and we want to try to come forward with this and not give room again in the future. [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't change anything!]] But sometimes negotiations take longer, and then the time limits of information to the opposition parties cannot be observed. We accept this criticism. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: That is often so!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Three years didn't do anything! ... in the wrong committee!]] What I do not accept, however, is if the former Minister Scheibner suddenly wanted to tell me in an attack of nostalgia that during the then government he was listening to, so paradisiacal democratic states ruled here in the house. [[Abg. Grosz: That was the way it was!]] - That's ridiculous! [[Abg. Grosz: You want to abolish parliamentarianism!]] I remember "speed kills". There you were in the government. You've seen that there's no committee of inquiry on the Eurofighters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] They were not exactly the inventors of transparency either. Really not! Now you should take a break with the calls and think a little crazy and self-critical about your own time in the government before making further calls! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] So, please, don't do that! We wanted to end – from the experience of the opposition time we had – when we were back in the government, we would have a reasonable way of dealing with each other. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why do you then delay all requests from the opposition?]] There should be no dispute but constructive cooperation and transparency and that you are involved here. That's what we're trying to do. [[Abg. Strache: Why is this... not lived?]] This has not always been achieved, but we will try even more intensively in the future so that it is implemented here – also in the interest of all Austrians. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Do you see your mistake?]] I have already told you that we have good ideas, the coalition partner has good ideas and sometimes you also have good ideas. [[Abg. Oils: That's just a soul!]] [[Intervocations with FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] If this can be used and applied for the benefit of Austria, we will take that up. A committee work here in the house makes sense that it really involves all these good ideas. [[Abg. Scheibner: So you will continue to lose!]] What is undemocratic is if you all make calls together for so long, raise the noise level that I don't hear my own voice anymore, and if you don't hear the audience or the audience. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with greens and BZÖ]] [[Abg. Grosz: Just for their self-protection!]] They have a right to pursue the debate, unimpeded by your calls for call.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e10536	The next item is Mr Kickl's speech at 5 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e10557	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Unlike Klubobmann Cap of SPÖ, who fears that the spectators will turn off – which is quite possible after his speech, because they have heard this five times without having followed these announcements anytime – I am very glad that this objection debate is being broadcast on television today. This allows a certain look behind the scenes of red and black and shows what some in this House understand when they are constantly talking about a “new democratic culture”, about “rights of opposition” and if, like Mr Cap, one can still patent these terms and go home with them on every occasion. There is always a great deal of talk about the ‘ word of the house’, of Parliament’s reputation. – In the way that you are dealing with this issue by example between various committees, just because it fits you more Party-politically, but which is not justified by anything, you should take your nose and ask if this is a good service that you are doing here to parliamentarianism. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The problem with the whole issue is that this EIA problem is only a small mosaic of a whole series of things, where it is basically against the opposition, where minority rights are trampled with feet and where a “new parliamentarism” is spoken of – I think you used this term, Mr Cap, without knowing what that should mean. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is a very old parliamentarism!]] This is just an example of many. This makes it possible to stretch the bow a little bit in the fullness. Keywords: Committee. [[Abg. Grosz: Social Rights Change Act!]] There's nothing unimportant in such a crisis. We know that the top has not yet been reached. This is a very interesting process that you have chosen there. One would like to believe that there are the essential issues involved in the labour market, the social situation, the fight against poverty, the fight against unemployment, with the necessary intensity, sustainability and depth. What's going on? – One must be happy once an appointment is made. This is not due to the opposition parties, but to a embarrassing temporary eertance between red and black. There can be neither green nor orange, nor blue anything for there to be no dates. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Csörgits.]] And you're pretending it wasn't this crisis. [[It was in favour of FPÖ and BZÖ as well as representatives of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Term crisis!]] If there is an appointment, you have to look at how to deal with this appointment. This one date, which is then available, is stuffed from the front to the back. There's a mess against every Martinigansl! There's important materials in there. We can say that there is no time at all for the debate, for the essential content. This goes in the bonding process, and many things do not find the way in here at all. Tag Social Report 2007/2008: That would have been an interesting thing once. It would be worth talking here about these issues in the sense of transparency, openness, an honest discussion. But this social report – I understand it because of your situation – is basically the poverty certificate for the era Buchinger/Kdolsky in many areas. I understand that you prefer to extend the coat of silence on this, and to do it quickly in the committee, in a husk-fush procedure. Actually, it's not something else. This report, which you are abstaining from, is an evidence of poverty in your social policy. He expresses in black and white that you have not even managed to reduce unemployment in the good, fat years that have not been behind us for a long time and in which tax revenue has really been sprung, so that you have managed to reduce unemployment, to combat poverty efficiently, to close the income scarcity between men and women! You didn't do anything! Let us give you faith that you can do this now, even though the situation is an unevenly worse one? We are not so naïve, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now you could believe – if it takes so long for you to make such a committee appointment – that you say that you need good things for a while, then what is prepared in the Committee on Social Affairs, for example, is a certain substance and it is really suitable for combating this crisis in a sustainable way. It is, unfortunately, also here that you are far missing if you are aware of this assumption. How else could it be possible that such an important thing as the Social Rights Change Act – at least a large package, which concerns essential matters such as co-insurance of caregivers et cetera – does not appear on the agenda for a meeting of the Committee – the only one that has been around for weeks? This is not even on the agenda, although we have had time to prepare it for a long time. This will then be pushed into this agenda in the Hush-Puff procedure. This is not a procedure that allows a solid, sustainable consultation on these important materials, as we demand from the opposition them, in the interest of the population, of you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then, if you make your work reasonable, it can't be that a few minutes – I think it's not even hours before the committee starts – will come up with long amendments to your own requests. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] They ask themselves: With what intensity have you done the preparations if what you are presenting to us is apparently so bad that, before it is introduced, you have to change it again? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Coming to the end: Mr Cap, if your “new parliamentarism” looks like this, we will face up to this new parliamentaryism a new opposition policy – and you will think more often about us, because there will be many things that you will need us to do. And: It must be done with this crossing!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e10694	Now comes Mr. Ing. Schools with 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e10715	Thank you, Madam President. Appreciate High House! I think we should come back to the point that we are actually discussing today. It is about reforming the Environmental Impact Assessment Act and treating today – according to the agenda. All that has been said in the last few minutes should have been in line with this issue. Our supervisors will probably ask themselves at home what it really is about. [[Abg. New builder: You didn't understand it!]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: You didn't listen!]] We are concerned with explaining why we want to discuss this today. We want to talk about this issue today because it is an important issue to be dealt with at the right time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Rules of Procedure – do you know what this is?]] Dear friends! Here we are just about to see what problems there really are outside. [[Abg. Brosz: Inside the house!]] We know that the environmental impact of a large project is to be assessed, and we are glad that we have today a procedure that gives the investor the opportunity to really come to a conclusion. Many issues, different legal instruments are to be addressed, and the environmental impact assessment helps to get everything done at the same time. The goal is always that, at the end of the day, investment can be made, because that means jobs, infrastructure and power plants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] So this is a good goal if we want to make this procedure better. That's exactly what the job was. It is the task of helping these processes to be uncovered by unnecessary delaying factors that are very much used by you. Appeals, vocations, appeals, additional opinions, additional opinions, additional opinions and to conclude this...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e10807	Mr President, I should like to say once again how I have done this to Mr Hofer: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e10822	Thank you, Madam President. – It’s just about implementing it as we need it. This is a matter of speed, because it is about making decisions before the summer, because we know very well, in the autumn it will be gruesome. We know very well that we want the energy transition – they also wish you. But everything you do today is not in-depth consideration. We interrupted the committee and had four days to negotiate it. But that wasn't your topic. You just want to show that you can hinder, prevent and move good topics as an opposition, and people will not understand that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] People want us to talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, but we get our gage to make decisions. You can talk about it for days, it is important that we make decisions before the summer, and that is also the meaning of today's negotiations. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Dear friends! We have had three committees that you have left because you yourself felt you do not want to talk about it. [[Abg. Kickl: Right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's not true!]] But the committee is the body for this. In the Economic Committee, Mr Kogler, Mr Kogler, said: I'm here, but not to talk about it. - You have to give it to yourself! It's like someone says: You, I'm visiting, but I have to tell you today that I don't have time. [[Abg. Kickl: We talked about where it belonged! You can also sit in the Federal Council Hall and talk there!]] Dear friends, we can really deal with each other, but seriously, no one can. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The process we are experiencing here shows that an important matter that was developed under the auspices of the Minister for the Environment was opposed to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, was discussed in the BMVIT, has been discussed with many NGOs, has come to Parliament and has then been subject to a reality check in the Economic Committee, where both ministers were present and both ministers have provided information within the framework of their competences. [[Call to the Greens:... belongs to the Environment Committee!]] Of course, it is an environmental issue that holds its quality. And now I'm gonna tell you something: This law will allow flood protection buildings to be completed faster. [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] I come from a region where an environmental impact assessment has delayed a dam project for so long until the flood came in and entire villages were standing in the water and had to be evacuated. There will no longer be such a thing because this law lays down reasonable rules for the proper construction of flood protection buildings. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e10913	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e10935	Mr President. High house! We would like to take note of what Mr Cap has given us about the dignity of the House, but the actions that this government is setting these parties have more to do with strangling the house, fighting it and preventing it from working here. That's the point, and I'm going to explain that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] When it comes to making appointments to agree working dates, when it comes to letting the opposition's applications come in, when the ruling parties block it, when they refuse to do so, they are always tried to prevent it. And if Mr Cap repeatedly speaks of strengthening opposition rights to develop democracy, but the very opposite is the case, I wonder if that corresponds to the dignity of the House. Now to the debate itself, to the debate. – Dealing with the government parties with us, with the opposition, is actually immense. ==References====External links== On 23 June the Council of Ministers adopted the EIA-Law-Novelle and the Federal Chancellor made sure that the law was dealt with in the relevant environmental committee, and at the same time on the same day, on 23 June. June, the Rules of Procedure are being used most seriously in order not to have to deal with the law in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but to go through the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and get the opposition to it just 90 minutes before, then it cannot be said that the working conditions are in order. That's not how it works! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the Rules of Procedure have been commented on by your former club director, Zögernitz. And it is clear that there is no real, direct link between the steam boiler law, where it has been introduced, and the EIA law. Therefore: Do not hesitate to apply Zägernitz, act in accordance with business rules and allow proper treatment with experts in the Environment Committee! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you look at the contents of the steam boiler operating law: What is the core of this topic? What's this about? – It is a question of recognizing foreign certificates for plant guards for the operation of ship machines and locomotives. That's what I'm asking myself: What does this have to do with the EIA law? – Zero commander Joseph, in good mill four, because in the EIA law, it is about integrating the public and testing the effects of large plants and events on humans, animals, plants, soil, water and air on the basis of technical principles. I wonder how you can make a connection here. You won't be able to construct him, because there's just no way he could be! That is why the Committee chairman's approach to having this request dealt with in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has also been strictly contrary to the rules of business. We are therefore again calling for this item to be put to the vote so that it can be dealt with in the Committee on the Environment. It's feasible. This would also allow the law to be properly dealt with with with with by experts, with those concerned, with the competent Members. It's just amazing that you ignore the rights of the opposition here! I've noticed since I've been here in the high house: You have just 55 percent of the votes, ÖVP and SPÖ in common, but you act as if you had 100 percent of the votes. I am thinking, for example, of how many requests have been made by the opposition in connection with the consultation of the double budget. That's what they used to say: I can't, because the budget's coming anyway. Then the government parties decided on the budget, and then you said: Now we have decided on the budget, and now we can no longer discuss the proposals in terms of content. This access is simply legendary! This was also about applications in the field of research, development, as it was about education, about important things that you simply erased from the table. Or most recently at the UG-Novelle. Here you go, make a proposal for a UG novelle, a one-centimetre thick paper, without expert hearing in this fascism without carrying out a review without inviting experts to the committee without directly asking those concerned, and simply want to push through the ruckzuck, although 70 percent of the opinions are negative. I do not ask you to be unreasonable, I just want you to take Parliament seriously, that you involve those who take people seriously in Austria, that you treat the materials where they belong to business rules, and that you do not further eliminate the opposition. Finally, I can only hold on to one thing: For your current democratic and government-political action, you will get a smooth lack of satisfaction! Thank you, sit down!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e10992	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11014	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Widmann pointed out what we here in Parliament are for what we are elected to do, namely to work for. I don't know if the population is expecting us to debate objections. We have almost 80 points to do in the next three days! There is a great need for discussion here, many improvements that we have to make, and we should therefore turn to them. [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] What, though, is the great issue of why this objection debate has been held? – Mr Hofer has motivated that this law was discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. – I say it is a cross-sectional matter, this environmental impact assessment law, and I also tell you why. I'm asking you now: Where, for example, would you have done the II package of violence? – In the Justice Committee, in the Family Committee, in the Equality Committee? There are laws where simply the materials can be treated differently. [[Abg. There's the worm inside, in the speech!]] That's the problem. We can nominate at any time – you know, Mr. Hofer. Of course, we have nominated our expert on family issues, Gabriele Binder, in the Family Law Change Act. Of course, women – especially women – have dealt with the Action Package II. Addiction law – another example –: Where has that been treated? In the Health and Justice Committee, and the health experts have been taught by the various clubs. That's the right procedure! It's not all one-dimensional in this life. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: But not when you bring it into committee! I don't think you understand.]] As regards the law itself, the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, it must be said: Faster procedures all do well! I know this from my own experience. I was a member of a citizens' initiative at the motorway exit Innsbruck-Mitte. We've been fighting for years – and unfortunately we're not the result we've expected, but it's cost us a lot of money, a lot of time and a lot of nerves. If the whole thing had gone faster, we would have been helped by the founders of the project and everyone. [[Abg. Kickl: Everything in the main committee is the fastest!]] This applies to very many areas, asylum court proceedings, asylum procedures, for example. That's where you always say: Faster, faster! Of course, because faster procedures also mean greater legal certainty, and of course with the corresponding standard, but a certain acceleration in procedural steps is something very important and necessary for our citizens, and that is why we should do so! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: And you can't do that in the Environment Committee?]] Mr Widmann has said that we should sit down and he has distributed “not enough”. – This is not a kind of discussion: neither here nor in schools, but apart from: We have much to discuss, we have much to do with improving the situation of people in Austria, and many of those who have looked at this debate will have thought: We want your worries! We are concerned with jobs, we are concerned about how we can shape life accordingly, we are concerned that youth has a job, for example, a youth work foundation. [[Abg. Strache: You are about foundations, asset optimization, but not about people, not social responsibility!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You should not take the word “foundation ” into your mouth!]] We are concerned that patchwork families have better conditions, for example, that they can make daily life easier. There are still a lot of materials we have to deal with in these three days. It has already been called the BIA, the Office for Internal Affairs. I am very glad that this is now being put on legally reasonable legs – we know what we are talking about – that there is a legal representative, a legal protection commission. All this is important and necessary for the people here in Austria. Therefore: We are working for the next three days for what we were elected to do, in order to improve the situation in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11175	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11197	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators here in the hall and also at home! First of all, Mr Lugar, I would like to abstain from calling Güssing a “armenhouse” as a southern Burgerlander. But I'll give you the right. It's great what happened there! I wonder, however, that we are talking about this, and when it comes to adopting an eco electricity law to support such measures, we have the great blockade here in this House. Güssing, however, shows exactly – I saw that there in my work – how well it works when the environment and the economy work together when there are common developments. And this is exactly what this debate is all about. The Environmental Impact Assessment Act is at the heart of Austrian environmental policy, and just as is being dealt with in this House today during the speeches, shows exactly how it is happening in reality: It's going to be over – it's going over the environment and it's going to get over it about those involved who are working for their interests. I think this is an immense affront to all people who, in their free time, struggle for the environment! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Environmental Impact Assessment Act is intended to ensure a balance of interests, Balance the interests of the economy and the environment and of operators. As you have dealt with this, you have beaten on the side of the economy and opposed those concerned and against the environment and have made the environmental impact assessment law an economic impact assessment law. And especially now, when the climate change that has arrived in Austria is being discussed, we should already consider whether we should not give more importance to the environment. Of course we need jobs, that's quite clear, but your picture of job creation: more stench, more noise, more smoke are more jobs, which may have worked in the 1960s, but that certainly doesn't work today. I think it's time for you to be too from the government parties in the 21st century. ==References== [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also think it significant that the Minister responsible for Agriculture, Mr Berlakovich, is not present at this debate. We would have liked to discuss this with him in the Committee on the Environment, but unfortunately that was not possible. Obviously, he has now completely surrendered the “Beiwagerl” environment in the Ministry of Agriculture and allowed it to be overrun by the economy. But I still have hope, because there are a lot of NGOs in Austria, a lot of citizens' initiatives and a lot of private individuals who are committed to the environment. I would like to thank them today very much for doing so despite this difficult situation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Wurm, I do not know what citizens' initiatives you have been talking to. In any case, I have talked to representatives of many citizens' initiatives and I know how difficult it is for citizens' initiatives to assert their rights. Imagine being confronted with a huge power plant in your immediate neighborhood from today to tomorrow: I think everyone would like to speak with and shape it and not just leave it to anyone else and let it pass over them. It is very difficult for these people when they have to fight for their quality of life from today to tomorrow, and even if they are faced with the impairment of their property, their homes, in which they have often invested their entire capital. I also know how difficult it is for these people when, in this very complicated process, they suddenly face an entire Armada of highly professional experts and have no support at all. It would also be a task of policy to support these people, also financially. The minimum thing we need to do in this House is also to treat the concerns of those concerned and the environmental interests accordingly, to take seriously and to treat where it has to be, namely in the Committee on the Environment – and nowhere else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At this point I would like to appeal again to all those who are already working for the environment – the competent minister does not seem to do so. I call on you to continue to do this and continue to fight for the environment. We Greens and I, we will fight with you very surely! This debate also makes it clear to me today that we in Austria absolutely need an independent Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11296	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11317	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I think that if we follow the discussion in such a way that people on television who are struggling with the floods and have concerns about their workplace will have little understanding that we are discussing here whether something will be decided in one committee or in another committee, but people want us to act quickly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: People want a functioning parliament!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Then we will immediately abolish Parliament or at least the committees!]] I believe that even during the whole debate on the EIA law and the debate in the media, we have noticed that there is a wide range – from far too little nature conservation, to too little easing – and in fact it was very difficult to adopt this EIA law in such a way as to take account of all areas. After intensive negotiations and after intensive discussions, however, we have succeeded in creating a proper basis here, which will continue to allow a sustainable economy with our natural resources. I think that's a very decisive thing. Among other things, the EIA procedures have succeeded in finding a reasonable dimension for the concentration of the ski resorts and also in achieving that in the field of water resources, fewer bureaucratic barriers will be hindered for the construction of power plants in the future, and that the duration of the procedure will also be significantly reduced. I believe that this is an important step, and it has been a necessary decision because the energy question is one of the major questions we must answer for the future. And there's no time to lose. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you have called for this debate today because you criticise the fact that the EIA-novelle was dealt with in the Committee on Economic Affairs and not in the Committee on the Environment. That's just what you're seeing. Your attitude that you are looking at the nature conservation procedures, as Mr Brunner has now done, only from the environmental side and that you are refusing to consider the interests of projects in the sense of economic development in the country. They forget that we, especially in Austria, have many regions that have to operate in the area of tourism with the resource of our nature. In many of these valleys, a different economy than agriculture is not possible in tourism. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, whether you once tried to put yourself in the position of these people. It is easy to object from a distance, it is also easy to point out any nature reserves with your finger on the map, and it is also easy to reject any intervention into nature if, like you all, you do not have to live or operate there. If You yourself and your family there would have to earn your living and have your job in this region, where exactly these measures are necessary, then you would probably think a little different about them. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is always impressive when you go out to the federal states to the family businesses and the small and medium-sized enterprises in the tourist regions, how these companies manage nature carefully with the resource – because this base nature is the basis for their lives and because the conservation of nature is vital for the tourist development in these regions. We are therefore required to make our laws so that natural resources are also available to our children and children, and therefore we must also be careful not to consume them. Ladies and gentlemen, the use of natural resources in order to be able to grow and live with them must be allowed in the Alpine region! In the field of energy, too, it is time for us to confess that clean energy production in our own country from renewable resources can be justified quite a small amount of intervention into nature, thus avoiding other types of energy generation, such as coal and nuclear energy. [[Abg. Neubauer: Is this the matter?]] The present EIA law is a basis for allowing us to handle projects faster. And it is that it is up to the project applicants and the officials to infuse this novel life and quickly implement meaningful projects in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from protecting and preserving our natural resources, let us also allow an economy so that we can continue to create jobs and maintain prosperity in our businesses! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11403	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Haimbuchner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11424	Mr President. Mr Lopatka! - He's not here right now. – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! High house! So, there were already some statements that make hard thinking. Mr Schultes is no longer here either, Mr Cap, but Mr Haubner has also played with low emotions by taking the flood into account in order to lead the debate in the wrong direction. [[Call the ÖVP: There he is!]] [[Abg. Ing. Schools: Hello!]] I would like to tell you about the flood discussion: There are also some laws, some of the laws on spatial planning, which are obviously created in this way, for these are sloppy laws. And that is why there are such floods in some areas, and that is why people are affected: because there is no proper spatial order, because there is no proper building regulations, and because some mayors here obviously have not been dealt with very carefully with building permits, ladies and gentlemen. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr Moser]] That's the jumping point! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Hello-Rufe and other calls to the ÖVP.]] But your course has tradition. Your process has an old, a bad tradition. Let us remember the last legislative period when the health reform, the health reform requirements, were not dealt with in the Health Committee – because there a FPÖ mandater was involved in the committee – but one has dealt with the whole thing in the Committee. It is simply unpleasant for you if an oppositional parliamentarian has the obscurity there. Then you'd better send it to another committee and see: How can we get through that? so you don't have to deal with it in detail! – That’s your way, that’s your understanding of parliamentarianism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On behalf of my colleagues, Mr Schultes, who is currently working intensively with my colleague, Keep an eye on it: What is there at all, if you say so: Well, we're making the laws the way we need it. – Yes, some laws always look like you need the laws!Unknown term type: "%s".? What is an environmental committee for? What are the speakers for at all? – Of course, they have the sense that those Members who are particularly concerned with this matter are also working there. - But you obviously don't want that. What do you even have for a self-understanding of parliamentarianism? What kind of self-understanding do you have as a parliamentarian? Obviously you don't want to cooperate where the subject matter belongs? - Well, that's your way of running politics. Mrs Wurm, I would like to say one thing to you: There is no need to expect the EIA law to be dealt with in the Economic Committee in the steam boiler law. What do you really want to say about that? This is the procedure that is being criticized, and we need to talk about this procedure. What have you not said in the past years, in the era of the black and blue government? You always said speed kills. [[Abg. May. Worm: The Khol! That's what the Khol said!]] Now everything has to go very quickly. You even talk so very, very quickly. But at the time, criticised You always said this by saying speed kills. – I would like to see what would have been if you had chosen this procedure in the black and blue government at the time! There the socialist youth – the 34 that still exist – would have demonstrated on its own day. There would not only have been a Thursday demonstration, but there would have been a Monday demonstration, and you would probably have argued that the Constitution would be lifted. That would have been the case with Mr Cap. But, unfortunately, Mr. Cap is not here now. It is only Mr Cap that we have to quote what he has done in the past: “The SPÖ – like all other parties other than the EIA – is very interested in the fact that there are investigation committees as minority law –...” There should be a ‘new and living Parliament’. And then Cap said: “Let’s start working on the good ideas of the opposition parties and engage in reasonable discussions with all opposition parties.” All in all, he wants the ‘parliamentary parties to be at eye with the members of the government’, Cap outlined his understanding of ‘parliament new’...“ You are not even at the level of your own government representatives as they do not even work together with your representatives in the right committees with their expertise! – This is your understanding of parliamentarianism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we are talking about this procedure today. It has also said a lot of reasonable things about these issues by the former German Chancellor Gusenbauer. Obviously, he was sent to the desert because transparency and control are no longer so important. Either transparency and control is really no longer important to you, or it has once again enforced the ÖVP, or you have once again pulled the shorter. I think the latter is the case, and you really do not want a transparent, a new and a living Parliament. You only talk about it if you don't have the majority if you're in the opposition. This is not our understanding of parliamentaryism. We want proper work to be done in this country and proper laws also come into force.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11536	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11558	Mr President. High house! Any understanding of a proper and business-oriented debate, but when it comes to the question of whether a matter is debated in one committee or in the other committee, we should leave the church in the village and devote ourselves to those topics that are important to the people of our country. I also believe, in principle, that the EIA-Novelle in the Environment Committee would have been well removed, but drawing the conclusion that the Committee on Economic Affairs should agree on this, is unfair and unfair. In a matter which in such a complex way links environmental and economic diversity to the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is a desavowing of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, especially those who have boycotted the meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Steam boiler law!]] [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: No applause of the SPÖ!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if we are already having a debate on the agenda in the House, we should also have the debate on what we are planning to work out for Austria in the next three days, just as it was announced in the media in the morning: In these three days, we have more than 80 agenda items on the programme – 80 agenda items on finding answers to the economic crisis, securing jobs, strengthening the economy, giving young people opportunities and strengthening social cohesion in our society. This is important for us Social Democrats and is in the foreground. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us look at the agenda together, let us look at these 80 points. This is about supporting the economy – we are still dealing with a support package for small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria today – in order to promote individuals when they are willing to give young people a chance and employ them. We advise on the tax relief for the care of disabled children. We modernise family law, especially with regard to new forms of living together. Tomorrow, the Labour Market Package II is on the agenda, a huge package to minimise further impact of the economic crisis on people. It is about improving short-term work, about part-time work, about education and, above all, the youth foundations that are intended to give young people the opportunity to enter the labour market. These days are about improvements for caregivers, consumer protection, increased transparency in energy accounts, improvements in study conditions, support for our basic defence workers, measures to increase road safety, and reforms to the ÖBB – in order to address just a few points. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the issues that affect people, these are the issues that are important to SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, do you really believe that anyone in Austria understands this hair-splitting, for this i-tumper riding on the agenda? We will be able to discuss very detailed issues of the EIA-Novelle under the appropriate item on the agenda, just as the political groups present in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs did. Ladies and gentlemen, in the next three days – half a day we have already had a debate on the agenda – there are many points on the programme that strengthen the Austrian economy that secure jobs that strengthen social cohesion in our society in Austria, especially during the time of the economic crisis. [[Call the FPÖ:What?]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What is this?]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, together with social democracy and together with our coalition partner, to follow the government's proposals and to participate in the project for a social, fair and modern Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11658	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11679	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First: Parliament does not “pleasure” anything, and not even a “half day”. If you call an hour – and we are discussing the Rules of Procedure now one hour – then you should have the same work schedule as your colleague Faul, because he works only two hours a day. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Riepl: If you could stay objective, it would be nice!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again discussing this – and the EIA law is really just the i-tumble on what we have been experiencing here in this House for nine months, as far as dealing with the Rules of Procedure is concerned – how the Federal Government deals with Parliament, with democracy and with parliamentarianism. Only because this federal government is sinking in its own chaos because it is negotiating until the end, because it is unable to comply with legal procedures, will this Parliament, popularly said, “necessaryly rooted” here in an hour to decide on important materials. If any small business, if any entrepreneur in this country had such a chaos as you would in the Federal Government and in the government parties, ladies and gentlemen, he could lock! Every household has more regularity and lawfulness, every houseman and every housewife organizes the household better than you a whole country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You talk about the coalition today about essential materials such as the EIA law and are endangering this law itself by not even complying with the small one-time of parliamentarianism, democracy here. That's what we've been experiencing for nine months! And – Mr President, you will allow it – in a debate on the Rules of Procedure, I should like to mention what we have been experiencing for nine months now, this abolition of the great coalition, which for the first time has kept here for the first time for ten years. To the AUA Subcommittee: The Members asked for witnesses to have the witnesses refused the committee, and the committee came to the farce. New questions have arisen. And the AUA has threatened you yourself by this now, inasmuch as the European Commission has now responded to the questions raised by Members in Parliament and also has to ask you big questions – just because you meant you were hiding, then it will be done. Now we insist that it's not going to happen and that the whole AUA is flying around our ears because you're making your cover-up policy here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: ==References== Social law amendment law. Mr Kickl, you're perfectly right: One hour before the start of the committee comes an essential matter such as the 3. The Social Rights Amendment Act in the Committee, and the Members of Parliament are given the opportunity to vote here on essential materials – where we can already be sure that the Constitutional Court will “absorb” it, because that is what you are presenting to Parliament here! [[Abg. Schönpass: You are deliberately speaking the untruth!]] Or: Main applications, which have been shaken for over five years at all: Security of the Austrian households – a request from the Westenthaler Member and other BZÖ colleagues on more robust design will be postponed for five years, shubbled in the security field. Or: Requests from Seppi Bucher, our clubman, for tax reform are not even discussed for five years, are pushed to the long bank. Next example: Today's anti-corruption law is being postponed to late midnight, so that only the public does not insist that this anti-corruption law does not even deserve the name "anti-corruption" in the approach, because you simply want to take out important managers of close-to-state businesses where corruption is really possible. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: A minister of the interior, who announces in the Committee on the Interior, now makes “Mitzis Quiz”: Which municipality does the first asylum collection centre want in Austria? – We ask which community has notified itself to it, and it has not been able to comply with Parliament’s right of question and has put itself on the point of view: I'm not saying anything to you! - Is that an interior minister? Is this the way to deal with Parliament? Is that dealing with the National Council? Or: ==References== Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights, which has been waiting for its ratification in this House for three years. In the Human Rights Committee, those parties who call for it, popularly said, are held down, and it is relocated to the long-term bank. And the EIA law is now the i-tumble in your way of dealing with Parliament. And I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP: We are not the puppet theatre and the puppet theatre of Mr. Faymann and Mr. Pröll! We are here a parliament that, to the best of its knowledge and conscience, has to decide on essential materials of the Austrians – and not a voting machine! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you don't want parliamentarianism anymore, say it! Then you simply do away with democracy and Parliament! But if you insist that parliamentarianism, democracy and civil rights will continue to apply in this country in the future, then you will finally appreciate this Parliament! We want clear rules of play, which are respected, comprehensible and transparent laws. That is precisely you, Mr Cap, who has been in this House for 60 years, I think, preaching clear rules of play, is finally guilty of this House. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] It would be good for you, Mr. Cap, if you would implement one of your Sunday's speeches sometime. For decades now, you have been running politics with your announcements and have not been able to implement even one of your promises to the Austrians! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11789	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11811	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grosz, that Parliamentaryism does not take place in Austria, I think we are currently experiencing this in this debate on the Rules of Procedure. Let me, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, carry out my motives, why I felt that the amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act can also be negotiated in the Economic Committee. It has already been said several times today: Of course, environmental/environmental compatibility is a cross-sectional matter, a cross-sectional matter that affects the economy and the environment alike. And in many respects, I believe we have found a successful compromise which, on the one hand, proves to extend the environmental standards – and on the other hand, we must say that the environmental standards have been far beyond European standards so far in the environmental impact assessment – but on the other hand they also take the important measures necessary to ensure that the economy has a certain degree of planning certainty and, on the other hand, to ensure that procedures are accelerated. I've heard a lot today. I have heard that a member of the BZÖ, or better said, of the liberals – Hofer – said that the procedures will be extended in the future due to these extended standards. On the other hand, on the other hand, Mr Kogler, on the side of the Greens, said that the procedures were far too short. . I therefore believe that this innovation is a really good measure, which actually enables us to achieve the above objectives. What does it look like in practice, ladies and gentlemen? I spoke to Mr Schierhackl yesterday about the ASFINAG, and if he tells me that, for example, in road constructions, more than 30 percent of the total effort is now invested in environmental measures, then I believe that in Austria, with the standards and with the measures we have to offer here, we are absolutely in the top European field. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we have heard many times today about the economically difficult time we are living when we have to fight for every job, ladies and gentlemen, it is right and reasonable to ensure that the people of our country remain in employment. If you also offer companies that are close to the state, such as the electricity industry, economic offensives, then there is also a need for transparent measures, especially as regards environmental impact assessment. In this context, we must also see that, for example, for hydropower, for thermal power plants, for the expansion of wind, biomass and solar power plants. energy totals a framework plan of about €13 billion by 2020. At this point I expressly thank the Social Democratic Party, especially the negotiators, especially Petra Bayr, but of course also our negotiators, for finding a compromise and consensus in this really difficult matter. It is, I believe, more important for people that we offer appropriate measures to have employment. People and citizens have nothing of it if we are not responsible. We have to make decisions here. I have been in this house for a relatively long time and always hear the same accusations that the opposition is too little involved. Especially in this committee, we have been very careful to ensure that sufficient time is available to study this matter so as to allow the amendments to be made accordingly. We interrupted the sitting and resumed it two days later, on Friday. If then the only answer of the opposition parties is that we do not take part in these deliberations, then I cannot understand it, even if you have your own interests or thoughts in the novelle of the EIA law. We keep it, as we have said, so that we do not want to assume responsibility for the citizen and do not want to make any further friends with populism. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11881	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11902	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Steindl, your statements are clear and clear, and clear, how necessary our objections are, how necessary our Rules of Procedure debate is, how necessary it is for us to discuss the fact that the novelle on the Environmental Impact Assessment Act is regularly adopted in this Parliament, that is, through the normal, qualified technical committee, and not through the Economic Committee. You, Mr Steindl, were in no way able to argue why partout must be discussed in connection with a steam boiler operating law! Ladies and gentlemen, with an environmental impact assessment law, it is about people who are able to exercise their fundamental rights at all in the environment of motorways, airports, the environment of commercial businesses, the fundamental right to sleep, the fundamental right to health. In a matter of such matters, move the debate to a secondary track, to a storage track, i.e. steam boiler law, to a committee, to an expert body that primarily has in mind the interests of the economy – but not the interest of the people affected by such plants in their sleep, in their health, in their quality of life. The environment, of course, is also affected. You go through this in this way from the coalition – and your argument is neither factual nor professional. They always say it's about jobs, we from the Greens only operate i-tumpery. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are also about jobs, about qualified jobs. But your Husch-Pfusch legislation – the new environmental impact assessment law is again a Husch-Pfusch legislation – leads to the fact that projects are not regularly and properly tested, but rather put on the meadow in a quick manner, people are being banged at the door and, afterwards, proved to be highly uneconomical, as highly taxing for taxpayers. And in retrospect, it can also be seen that no jobs have been created. I would like to show you this on the basis of a simple example, Mr President. Skylink, the expansion of the airport in Vienna-Swechat. EU law, including Austrian law, should have been subject to an environmental impact assessment. You didn't do it. They have expanded: 22,000 square meters, 50,000 square meters, even more, and the Lower Austrian Government has repeatedly tried to enforce a normal procedure, as it is legally prescribed, but you have tried to prevent it over and over again. And what is the result? – The result is a building ruin, a construction stop, a million closure and waste. You know for yourself about this cost explosion. This project, which was on the list of tax waste projects from the outset, has been implemented without an environmental impact assessment without the need to apply quality in the process. That is why it is so important for us to have a qualified approach, both in environmental impact assessments and in the treatment of legislation in Parliament. Because if we're sloppy when we use your Husch-Fuch methods when we apply your business regulations, then it's double-doubted. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then it's the people's revenge, and that's what happened to the taxpayers' money. That's why: get away with this law, with this steam boiler operating law on tomorrow's agenda, to a proper procedure! Finally, I'm using a comparison: No one in the population believes you should go to the economic court of a hospital in case of a heart disease instead of an internist, or immediately to the producer of a pacemaker. They always say people should go to the doctor responsible for this. Applying the Environmental Impact Act You are using this method: from the doctor, to the mechanic, to the manufacturer of any products. It must be understood to everyone that this procedure is not just a Against democracy, against the rules of the game, but also in the quality in which things are completely counterproductive.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11966	The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to take account of the objections, i.e. the suspension of item 11 on the Federal Law amending the Environmental Impact Act, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The agenda for today's sitting in writing remains. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e11999	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that Mr Dr. Walser has asked the Constitutional Committee to report to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Reimbursement on application 644/A concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG) and the Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. 1975) a period of time until 9. ==References== It is the one of five delegates according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. [[11:49:31]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e12038	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e12315	The debate on points 2 and 3, 4 and 5, 6 and 7, 9 and 10, 14 and 15, 16 to 18 and 19 and 20 of the agenda is proposed. Objections? - Don't be raised. We can therefore proceed in this way. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e12339	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. It was proposed a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’. There are the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP per 122 minutes, FPÖ 108 minutes, BZÖ and greens per 95 minutes. The President-in-Office has already announced that the ORF will forward the debate live by 1 p.m. We have agreed on the following Rules of Procedure: Originally 11 minutes were planned, we are in a delay. After consultation with the club responsible, the speaking time per group is 9 minutes. A member of the government with 10 minutes, a second round of speakers, another member of the government with 8 minutes, and I ask the gentlemen on the government bank to take a very short look. The President-in-Office will then distribute the speaking time at the same time before the beginning of the final round after consultation with the members of the club. There is agreement that actual corrections will only be called after the television broadcast. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign. – This is adopted by the necessary qualified majority. [[11:51:26]] 1. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (229 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing a federal law on the strengthening of the liquidity of companies (the Corporate Liquidity Reinforcement Act – UlSG) and amending the Interbank Market Reinforcement Act, the Financial Market Stability Act, the Federal Budget Act 2009, the Bundesfinanzgesetz 2010 and the Bundesfinanzgesetz, which adopts the Federal Financial Framework Act 2009 to 2012 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2010 to 2013, and on the Question 434/A(E) by Mr Josef Bucher, Members of Parliament, on a business refinancing package (284d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e12406	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Klubobmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e12434	Mr President. Dear Mr State Secretary – a second member of the government is not yet present –! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing you have to leave out of this federal government: She really has a legendary “talent. ” Everything that is attacking this federal government is going to go wrong and is done wrong! And this is also reflected in today's corporate liquidity strengthening law, which looks very nice at first sight, but at second glance is exactly the opposite of what is unfortunately God's very bad; I will then come to speak of it. You will rework €10 billion from the liability framework of the bank package for state guarantees. So far, so good. And now the first problem is: In fact, only companies with more than 250 employees are resold. Yeah, please, what does that mean?- Oh, my God! The small and medium-sized enterprises are therefore once again excluded from this law, which one leaves out again. They leave the small and medium-sized enterprises – here documented – once again in the open. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the explanations to this law, it is even explicitly stated that small and medium-sized enterprises are excluded. The second problem is that this law will not even help the domestic industry. In reality, this is only an alibi action to minimise the residual risk of the large banks and the large banks of Austria. That's behind it. In other words: The Federal Government is once again helping Konrad and Co in this Republic, but not the small and medium-sized enterprises, and not those who would need it, namely the economy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One secures Konrad and Co, i.e. precisely those rulers who, with their casino humanity, have made a strong contribution to this development and crisis that we find today. What you're presenting here is basically a second bank rescue package under the pretext that you want to help the economy, but in reality you'll continue to distribute the money with full hands towards banks. It is also interesting in this context that companies that have partner companies in the financial sector or are related to financial sector undertakings as related companies can very well take this responsibility into account. If you were malicious – we are not malicious, but if you were malicious – you could almost think that the Minister of Finance has once again thought of a very special mixed group, namely a mixed group whose name begins with “Raiff” and ends with “iron”. Say: Once again, the Giebel Kreuz regime is fully, very prominently in the interests of this law and can also be found in it. This law can and must therefore also be described as a pure brush. We only want a award of state liability for the Austrian industry under certain conditions. This was also what former Minister of Finance Molterer here promised once by the government bank, and to this day this promise has not been met that certain conditions are to be fulfilled. The conditions are clearly defined by our side, namely mandatory audit by the Court of Auditors. We know from a sad experience that there is one bank or another, where the balance sheets were not necessarily correct and where there has also been convictions. It also needs a ban on state liability to stop the speculation holes in the East or elsewhere where. This is also lacking in this area. We also call for the commitment of state liability to strengthen the Austrian labour market. This too is not defined by the Federal Government. And in those companies that use the state liability, there must be a capping of the manager's salaries in the amount of income of the Federal Chancellor. This is about tax money, ladies and gentlemen. We liberals also want a state liability for SMEs, for small and medium-sized enterprises, because small and medium-sized enterprises are now the soul and motor of our economy. They account for the main share of Austrian jobs by 60 percent, and they make up 70 percent of all apprentices in Austria. And that's what you're leaving out of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They leave the smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the lurch. The ÖVP is no longer an economic party in this country, but it has become a banking and industrial party! That's reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This government must finally stop this shabby treatment of the middle class. Finally, make sure that the smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs come more easily to cheap loans, and finally stop throwing the money into the throat to the big banks!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e12528	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e12551	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, what should I say to my previous speaker, Mr Strache? [[Abg. Strache: You must give me the right thing!]] I say, in every parliament in the world it is like this: It is the privilege of the opposition to criticize everything, to know everything better, to play the Oberg’scheiterl everywhere, but not to be responsible. In every parliament in the world, Mr. Strache – and why should it be different with us? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. You just need to accept our requests!]] I have only one difference, Mr. Strache: While we are talking about the arrogance of power in many countries, I note here an arrogance of the minority. That is very clear. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] But now to the law itself, ladies and gentlemen. With this law, we are adopting another important building block within the framework of a comprehensive strategy to combat the recession, which has been a global one and the strongest since the last 80 years; a law that is a consistent continuation of those packages that we have already decided – economics package I, economics package II, labour market package I, labour market package II, tax reduction package, bank package –, a very consistent continuation of the strategy stabilisation of financial markets, but also the strategy for growth and employment. It was the experts of the Monetary Fund who were in Parliament two weeks ago and discussed with the group leaders of the Financial Committee and said that Austria had taken the right measures to combat crisis in good time – a compliment for the government, a compliment for the majority in this Parliament, for all those who voted in favour here. But it's right, we have a problem: We have the problem that, in particular due to the procyclical impact of Basel II – Basel II, the capital requirements of banks are regulated – in the event of an economic crisis, banks are required to make more equity. This is, of course, missing for lending. That is why we have chosen this way that those companies that need large loans in the longer term also get them, because there are really problems. We do not have a credit terminal for small and medium-sized enterprises. In my constituency Waldviertel, the savings banks have pointed out this in press talks: There is liquidity – come on, you get the loans! But there are problems in large-volume long-term things. Therefore, this law. Mr. Strache, as well as your colleagues in the Financial Committee, are trying to separate large and small: We will not allow large and small to be divided, for the following reason: [[Abg. You don't care about the little ones! They let down the little ones and the middles!]] We have an estimated 180 to 200 head offices in Austria; Management means: high value added, high research effort, high job security. 103 of these were examined by the Institute of Industrial Sciences a month ago. Result: These 103 head companies have a network of 95 000 small and medium-sized enterprises as suppliers. There are 300 000 jobs in these small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the subcontractors for industrial managers. So stop with this polemic about big and small. [[Abg. Street: The small and medium-sized companies leave you alone! That's the problem!]] In addition, Mr Strache – you unfortunately did not agree – we decided on a billion small-scales last year to help SMEs in particular. And that works! [[Abg. Strache: That was a Minimundus package!]] [[Abg. Bucher: It doesn't work!]] If there are cases, Mr Bucher, you call the individual cases. We're ready to follow each case. Put the individual cases on the table! It may be that there or where people work, mistakes also happen. Put these individual cases on the table and don't constantly try to change political change with flat-rate suspicions, that doesn't work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Again: A successful policy – a law that will solve these problems in those areas where we still have problems today. Mr Strache, I know that your subject matter is the foreign question. I'd suggest: Stay with the foreign question! Don't play the top national economist! That's not right for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e12692	Next speaker: Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e12713	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Col. Günter stupidly, because you just talked about arrogance: Where is the Minister of Finance? Why is the Minister of Finance not interested in what we have to say about this law? [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: He's never here!]] Since you, my colleague, have spoken of arrogance: Why do you each time delay our requests, all the requests made by the opposition? All opposition parties shall endeavour to make proposals, and they shall be systematically postponed in all committees each time. This is arrogance, ladies and gentlemen of the government. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] This law, which aims to strengthen the liquidity of companies, is a law for corporations and for banks. That's right, and that's it! [[New condolences with the BZÖ and with representatives of the FPÖ.]] That is not to be denied. If You really write on your flags that you represent the small and medium-sized companies as well as the individual companies, then do something for them! But you don't do anything like that. [[Abg. Strache: The Conrad is the only one to be represented!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Hochzinpolitik!]] The Economic and Social Committee has also long agreed to play the role of representing interests. She's not doing anything! It only makes one thing: the protection of their loins. With 20 percent of the power of the Economic Federation, you collected 100 percent of the Chamber of Commerce. That's all you can do! Otherwise, you do not represent the medium-sized economy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The government has calmed the Chamber of Commerce by saying: You are now a self-government body, constitutionally secured, you will receive an internationalization offensive and a premium through which you will receive a little money, but let us make peace with your suggestions! This is not the right way because the Chamber of Commerce is completely failing to represent itself. Finally, we need an exemption from the economy in Austria – an exemption from bureaucracy, from the tax burden and from compulsory membership. This would finally be necessary in Austria for the small and medium-sized economy! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] What are you doing instead? – They save the banks generously with €100 billion. Only banks benefit from the package of measures. Let us remember the conditions! What did we say? The Court of Auditors should examine the extent to which the requirements we have made are actually implemented. None of this has happened to this day! We have said that if an Austrian bank takes advantage of the tax payer's equity, then the double of it must flow into the credit economy, into the real economy. Nothing of that happens! The loans do not flow, the medium-sized economy, the small-scale structure in Austria is still waiting for the loans, and no one in that Republic is allowed to review them, even the Court of Auditors. No one in this Republic exercises control and gives us security and guarantee that the 100 percent of all of us in this House are actually fulfilled. This is a farce, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes! Completely right!]] The banks are going here, taking the money of the Austrian economy, going to the east and spending the money on loans, namely €300 billion. That's the point! The Austrian economy has been starved for credit. There is a credit terminal in Austria, which is not to be denied, and the Pröll can say a hundred times abroad that there is no credit terminal in Austria, just because, as Minister of Finance, he has no credit clamp to suffer and perhaps his uncle does not. The Austrian economy continues to suffer from the fact that it does not receive credit from the banks, because the banks place far too high a condition because they also charge a far too high risk charge, namely of over 3 percent. That's inconvenient! Why should the small and medium-sized economy in Austria, why should Austrian taxpayers pay for it and guarantee that the Austrian banks have granted 300 billion in loans in the East? No one in this republic sees it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, We have already done something about the austria economics service!, I may say to him: The problem is that we have provided guarantees there, but the banks do not pass on the credit requests from the companies. They require 1.2 percent surcharge or processing fee, and even that is too little for them. That's the problem! Therefore, it is ineffective what you have done to resolve the credit clamp. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] With what arrogance – because the word “arrogance” has fallen here earlier – banks deal with their customers, this shows the local credit that we saved last year, where we made an emergency nationalization and took over 1.2 billion in liability. Do you know what the municipal credit writes to one of their own customers? I quote: Dear Mr Mag. Pichler! For us, 2008 was the most successful but at the same time a very challenging year. - Quote. The year 2008, in which the municipal credit was claimed, was the most successful year for them! This is an example of arrogance that can no longer be surpassed, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are very clearly on the point of view: We finally need a relief from Basel II. What has not been promised to us here in the House that Basel II, these strict credit guidelines will not be applied to loans up to € 1 million. All of this is no longer the case today, on the contrary: The small and medium-sized economy will be subject to very strict credit guidelines in this regard! That's the wrong way! There we should loosen and place stricter guidelines on the system banks so that control can really take place. The reverse path of Basel II would be the right one! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Financiary Minister, Mr State Secretary, finally take care of the small and medium-sized economy, take care of the individual societies, because they are ultimately the foundation we need when we want to get back to more growth in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e12892	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e12914	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! This law, which is so vehemently rejected by the opposition parties, is an adjustment of what we did with the bank package in the previous year. The original interpretation was as follows: We have kept the Austrian banks in the most difficult crisis for 80 years from losing investors' money, we ensure that the banks remain functional. We have reached here in the House – which was not yet included in the government template – that the condition that sufficient credit is given has also been included. At that time, everyone agreed, and we said: We're looking at this very carefully! [[Abg. Scheibner: How long do you want to look?]] The President of the Leitl Chamber of Commerce also said at the time: We'll do a monitoring and look at that! The state of knowledge is the one – already in January – that we continue to have problems with long-term and larger financing, because the implementation of the banking package does not work properly, not because of the Austrian policy that has responded quickly and promptly, not because of the Austrian Parliament, which has acted quickly and quickly, but because the aid procedure in the EU and the vote in Europe takes so long, but also because, so to speak, the thawing of the international markets does not work quickly enough. So I've already been on the 12th. Janen demands – at the time still thought of with a lot of criticism –: Let us do something like this for the big companies, as we decided for the small ones in October with the SME package I: With direct public liability, let us ensure that the funding comes! Now we have this proposal here today, and I do not understand at all how you can refuse such a law that is reasonable and right! [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] We need credit lines, and we also need to ensure that large companies that hold thousands of jobs in Austria receive funding. But if I hear the argument now, the little ones wouldn't be funding, then I have to say: Please, go with the economy to aws and look at what we have offered! You yourself have agreed to this law, where the following is contained: 2 per cent interest, ERP small loans, one year refund-free, five years repayment, indemnification fee for SMEs: [[Abg. The little ones don't get credit!]] 0.4 percent. [[Abg. Strache: This is a nonsense that you suck!]] This is much lower than this law, but here we cannot regulate it more favourably because of state aid law. The large companies pay up to 4.5 percent of the fine. We therefore favour SMEs – and you want to include them in this law – with a worse regime. Get in touch before you represent something like this! We have made a good arrangement for SMEs, and we are now doing a good for the big ones! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As far as the Basel II issue is concerned, you are right that we must do this; Mr Stumpfully has already pointed this out. We have to pull Basel II's teeth. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then why don't you do anything?]] We're doing that! [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes when?]] I am not the luckiest if the Minister of Finance is not the same. But we are on a good way with this law to do everything to ensure that companies survive. That's a good way to go.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e13015	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e13037	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the €100 billion bank package has had a goal, namely to strengthen the economy with sufficient capital to make it available to them. In my discussions with the companies across the industries – starting with the eco-business companies, the wood industry, and the metal-processed plants – I hear the following: We have a credit terminal! – Quite clearly defined. This says well-established companies that are well in the race and have good potentials; even these complain. In view of these experiences of Austrian companies, I believe that it is an important and wise step to remove 10 billion from the bank package and make it available to the companies for liability. The question, however, is: Under what conditions? In this connection, I think, a serious mistake has occurred in the decision of the bank package in autumn. The whole thing went over the stage without conditions and conditions. We should not make this mistake again today, Mr Stumbling and Mr Matznetter. They come today with a bill that last week in the Committee pointed out that there would be a directive at the same time, but this directive is missing today. This Directive is not present at this time. Mr Lopatka, it was you who promised the financial committee last week. The question therefore arises: What about your promise, why is this directive not here today? If you were to compare this with the intention of buying a car, it would be like this: You go to the car dealer and say you want a well-functioning car, and it will bring you one that is beautifully painted black, with a red roof, four wheels matching the engine. But what's missing this car? – The steering wheel and the brake, i.e. something you can determine in Which direction is to go, and the brake they can pull in emergencies. It is similar today to this law. This law needs conditions and guidelines, and this lacks our great regret. We believe it is important now, in this very difficult situation, to make liability available to companies and thus to secure jobs. I believe that it is also an essential point to give a signal to all those who are now in short-time work threatened with unemployment or are already unemployed. We believe it is important that it is clearly defined that there are no bonuses payments for managers during the term of liability. This is an important point, just as it is an important concern of us to limit the distribution of profits at this time – rightly limited. Profits should remain in the company in as difficult times as these, strengthen the capital base there, flow into investment and thus secure jobs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This legislative matter also lacks the protection of the greatest possible guarantee of the workplace. That would be necessary now! One cannot go here, pass a law in this form and do not refer to the jobs, because they must now be at the centre. If required, companies must have 250 employees and more to get their liability, then the question is: What to do Are you with the companies that belong to the management companies, but have 220 employees, that is, less than required and therefore not supported? Go With this regulation you are a little more flexible, let this limit fall! According to the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Finance Pröll held a meeting on 16 February. It was clearly stated in June: These liabilities are for medium-sized companies and for large companies! Medium-sized companies, ladies and gentlemen, are – and you know that exactly! – companies with 50 to 249 employees. So you have to take the right step here too! I mean, all of us are aware that taxpayers need to be handled responsibly and carefully, and responsible and careful handling of taxpayers also means that companies have to meet requirements. But that's exactly what we miss in this law! That is why I am now introducing an amendment which contains these demands and corrects the gross deficiencies. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, of the government and of the government parties: Trust is good, control is better! Voices Let us ask you today!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e13123	The amendment has been properly tabled, explained in the key points, and distributed to Members. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e13305	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e13327	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the first quarter, the economy of the euro area is “as much shrinking as ever” with 4.9 percent – 11:19 o’clock/APA 183. Part of the euro area is also Austria. We can't get out of there. Of course, we too are heavily affected by this global financial and economic crisis. The crucial question, however, is: Has the government responded correctly, yes or no? [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I'll tell you: The government has reacted absolutely correctly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: Clearly to answer: No!]] I tell you, Mr Klubobmann, why I come to this view. First: Last week, OECD representatives were here and presented the annual report. The OECD was quite critical of our work on other issues, but it was precisely on this point that the OECD said that it was a hundred percent right to what extent and with what speed the government has responded to here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Yeah, where?]] - I'll tell you where. And that is with the bank package, with the economic packages and today with this law! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: That's why the unemployment rate is rising catastrophicly?! A record rate!]] I call you another point. Let us look at the tax development in the first half of this year! What was the development like? . Where our companies stand in international competition, it has been fully achieved. With a minimum of 25 percent in exports, we notice, of course, the corporate tax, where there were corresponding breakdowns. But in the area where measures have been implemented in the form of tax reform, namely private consumption, we do not have a fall in sales tax from January to June. [[Abg. Street: In the case of job security, you have failed completely! Failed!]] Now to job security, because you are cutting this issue. – The last figures available to us are the figures from May this year. Among the EU-27 is a single country in front of Austria when it comes to the number of unemployed, namely the Netherlands. We are not first, but we are second among the EU-27 when it comes to job security, and it is very important for people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: By re-translation with re-trainings that hide the unemployed!]] The priority for us in all measures is job security. By the way, this is also expected for the Ministry of Finance. The second tax, where there are hardly any decreases, because the total wage has remained almost the same, is the wage tax. So both the international observers and the tax revenues clearly show that the government is on the road. I therefore do not understand that you are against this measure today. We have already done a lot for small and medium-sized enterprises. I am thinking, for example, of the SME Funding Act, of the billions of small and medium-sized enterprises, of the support measures of the aws. This is a very, very important gap, because more than 500 companies that we have in Austria are in principle in question to take advantage of this law, namely those companies with a workforce of at least 250 – and these are not large corporations for a long time, as you have described. These are very successful medium-sized companies, which we are pleased with, that they are so strongly export-oriented – but now, of course, the more successful they have been in exporting in recent years – these are enterprises with €50 million in turnover and a balance sheet sum that is higher than €43 million. [[Abg. Strache:... legal requirements that you have forgotten! ... Forget your instructions!]] And these undertakings must have a sound economic basis in order to be able at all to benefit from these measures! This is not a bank promotion law – not at all! – in Austria, we are only lucky that we have a bank with the Austrian Control Bank, which has many years of experience and the export credits – and you know the quarterly reports, they always come to Parliament – prove that there is a good work here. For this group of companies, we have created framework conditions which are, in fact, stricter than the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. When it comes to the liability ratio that we are dealing with, we are between 30 and 70 percent of the total amount of the liability relevant, with smaller companies and with the aws, this can be up to 80 percent. That means that the federal government is not taking the entire risk at all! Of course, a risk remains with the banks. Of course, we look very, very precisely, at the undertakings that will be introduced in this regard, at the fact that they meet those criteria which we have already clearly laid down in the law, even if there have been allegations that have been made only when considering § 4 para. 8 have been rejected immediately. Of course, the Federal Minister for Finance together with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has to take precautions because of a legal obligation! So you know exactly what car you are buying – because you, Mrs Lichtenecker, have made this comparison. You see it here in the law exactly – § 4 para. 8 Z 6 the following –: Of course, attention must be paid to the “maintenance of jobs”, which is our top goal, of course, it is a “proportionality of remuneration of organs, employees and essential agents of fulfillment”, of course it is a “proportionality of distribution of profits to owners” – well of course! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: What does “appropriate” mean?]] [[Abg. Straw: Swammy and not defined!]] We want these companies to continue to be successful internationally at this very, very difficult time, in order to secure jobs and to ensure what we have done in recent years, namely to increase the share of exports year after year. [[Abg. Bookbooker: You forgot more rights for the union!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If today, in the early days of the Finance Ministers, they could already say that there is an Austrian bonus, it has also been created by the previous governments in recent years, and this also shows all international studies. [[Abg. Strache: Become a real malus! A real malus!]] This law, which is adopted here in the House today, closes this gap, and this gap is necessary for the larger undertakings in Austria: In the end, these are the backbone, so that even smaller companies as suppliers, Mr. Deputy, are able to continue to achieve what is our top goal, namely safeguarding jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e13534	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e13555	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! State Secretary Lopatka has impressively confirmed what the OECD and the International Monetary Fund have said about Austria in recent weeks, namely that the measures in respect of economic packages were the right ones in terms of combating the financial and economic crisis. This is no more, and not less than a gap, in order to help where aid has been promised, namely in larger enterprises, which in particular receive loans with a duration of two, three or four years with a larger volume, as the stupid has said, not or only difficult. Let us not look at these discussions, which are being held in Germany, for example, where a Finance Minister wants to threaten the banks and impose sanctions on them! Also, let us not insist that sometime economic analysts will determine whether there was a credit clamp or not, but let us take the right precautions to prevent it from happening! And that's exactly what it is: We help, and this is what the economy as a whole expects from us, with “the economy as a whole” of course: the little ones, the middles and the greats. It makes no sense at all to divide these, which cannot even want the opposition, but it makes sense to act differently in terms of companies with less than 250 employees and companies with more than 250 employees, because the EU aid rules – Matznetter addressed this correctly – allow for the smaller and middle things that are not allowed in the larger ones or are more expensive in terms of liability fees. That means: A maximum of €10 billion in liability frameworks for credit volumes for the middle and large from 250 employees, and – ladies and gentlemen, you yourself have partly decided – we have increased the liability framework for small and medium-sized people from €2.9 to €5.2 billion as part of the economic packages. And do you know how large the use framework is for these €5.2 billion in liabilities for SMEs under 250 employees? – This is 22 percent! If the degree of exploitation reaches 80, 90 percent, then Mr. Lopatka and Mr. Pröll, but certainly also dumb and Bartenstein will be the first to say: We need to go up with this liability framework, we don't get out! But for today, for tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, the needs of the little ones, the middle and the big ones in terms of liability for loans that they might not or would not get so easily are sufficient. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is, we help, ladies and gentlemen, we act, we do it appropriately, and we do not allow the little ones and the middles to be divided. One thing remains unexplainable to me, namely why the opposition does not go along with this liquidity-strengthening law, because what is included in Mrs Lichtenecker's amendment is actually already in the government's proposal: Consideration of points A, B and C, jobs and the like – State Secretary Lopatka has done so. There I am again with stupid: You probably vote against it or because you are opposition, but not in the interests of the economy. – You can’t really and truly use that for this opposition attitude.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e13619	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e13640	Mr President. The Secretary of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. stupidly, no one wants to divide large and small businesses or large industries and SMEs. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Well!]] What ÖVP has not understood in recent years, however, is that the economy is not just large businesses. They have long agreed to acknowledge that there are also small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] Let me give you just one example: At the time, they wanted to make even the additional request that the large industry can also access AWS funding in the event that small and medium-sized enterprises do not use this framework, because you already knew quite clearly that the small and medium-sized enterprises are not able to apply for AWS funding even because they simply do not have the logistics to fill such mountains of paper. This shows your true background, namely that you're only doing lobbying for the big industry, and that's wrong and that's what we're condemning. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] If you do not want to divide small and large enterprises today, you also need to create equal opportunities. What you've done with the ridiculous billions of economies that have never arrived where you'd really need them, and what you're doing for the big industry now doesn't fit in at all in the back and in the front, you have to remember that once! Let us look at what this government really does for the domestic economy! Mr Cap spoke today of “in the interests of the domestic economy”, and Mr Lopatka, the State Secretary, said earlier that there was a so-called Austria bonus. – I wonder what he understands about it or what he meant by it. I will try to explain to you, on the basis of two examples, what this government really has left for the domestic economy, namely nothing – that is the point. I could give you some more seamless examples, just two of them. The EXPRESS-INTERFRACHT, which is an ÖBB-enkel, drives on behalf of the logistics operator Rail Cargo, which is a ÖBB-daughter. So this is a company in which we can directly or indirectly influence the government, because we also pay for the annual end-of-life, which is not exactly small. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl.]] This company INTERFRACHT drives 150 brand new trucks, all of which are registered in Romania, including the handlebar. The tax loss per truck in Austria is €50 000 per year plus – with 150 drivers – approximately €7.5 million in wages and their value added; they go at dumping prices in Austria and South-East Europe. We know that hundreds of Austrian fishermen, micro and micro-enterprises are at risk of bankruptcy, and we subsidise such companies that are registered abroad and employ foreign personnel – and then we are talking about the Austrian bonus here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A second case, which will then lead me to a parliamentary request, because I really want to know what is behind it: I hear that in the main association – the chairman is the ÖVP-Man Schelling – programming orders are awarded in an order of €25 million. Now you can discuss whether this is much or little – for small and medium-sized enterprises it is very much. They are forgiven, and see: Who gets the orders? – Computer programmers from Romania! It's all paid for with taxpayers' money. Dear spectators also at home and here at the gallery, so much has the Austrian Federal Government from black and red or red and black, if you like, left for the domestic economy, namely nothing at all. If you want to support small and medium-sized enterprises today, you create equal opportunities, then don't give the big industry €10 billion! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Interestingly, this is decided today and thus exactly on the day when the Magna question is already being raised, claiming €300 million in state aid, so that the Austrian taxpayers can co-finance the Opel deal of Magna. Interestingly, these €300 million are exactly the maximum limit that will be decided here today, and see here: It is already in the paper that this package, which is to be decided here today – that is, it has not yet been decided – is already being exploited! This is the economic policy of ÖVP and SPÖ. Well, good night! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e13716	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e13737	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! Dear spectators at the gallery and at home! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not fully understand the excitement of the previous speaker, because of course it is necessary that it be companies that have a seat in Austria, and of course it is necessary that the operational activity takes place in Austria. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] But I don't understand in myself how to be against this law: Every day parents sign a guarantee when their children receive a credit to buy a house to buy a car to rebuild an apartment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] Every day the parents do because they trust their children because it is part of a family that one keeps together in difficult times, and because they naturally want their children to grow and that they continue to invest and live. [[Abg. May. Kogler: I always say that the Conrads and the Prölls are a family!]] It is also the task of politics to bring Austria through difficult times, so it is also our task to assume, for example, liability for corporate finance. Ladies and gentlemen! This is about thousands of jobs – thousands of jobs! Of course, this law must not be alone, must not be alone: It must be a step of many, it must be part of an overall package – whatever it is. But, ladies and gentlemen, I understand this game of government/opposition. Although I needed a little longer for this, I got used to it – it's okay. It's also okay if you have any suggestions for improvement there or there. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's nice that we can do that!]] But what should people think about whose job it is when someone turns out here and only criticises, but has no proposal for improvement, does not propose any measure to save jobs? . All of us here are paid monthly to make the greatest effort to save jobs. I know the tactics of the FPÖ are the following: They're insecure people because they think they're crisis-winners. They think they get more voices when people are afraid to lose everything. But you're wrong – you're wrong! Go out and talk to the people! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: You only talk to Niki Lauda!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] People today expect more than ever from politics that they know where the development is going, where Austria is going, and that politicians have visions and know what to do after the crisis. They want rapid action and protection against unemployment and unemployment aid. In short, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, before you can no longer laugh: [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Has the relationship with my colleague's head improved?]] Today, as they are affected by unemployment, people want to take action: Policy that is acting, not politics that is negligent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e13853	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e13874	Mr President. High house! If that is true, what the government is always trying to do to us, namely, that the banks work as they should, then we do not need this law at all. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hypo Alpe-Adria!]] In fact, we do not need this law, because if a bank – and so it is in the law – does not lend a healthy management company in Austria without liability, then the banks do not work. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hypo Alpe-Adria!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hypo Alpe-Adria!]] They don't work, because if a bank is already a management company that is still healthy – and so it's in the law – there's no credit, who else is the bank supposed to lend? Maybe an SME, a small company? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hypo Alpe-Adria!]] If Mrs Rudas makes himself here and sees that as the most normal and the most necessary in the world, the state is liable for having a healthy business get a credit, then, Mr State Secretary, I must say, our banks do not work as they should. – That’s exactly the problem! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is, if you go here and claim that the banks work because of the bank rescue package, then we don't need this law, and if you go here and say the banks don't work because they don't lend loans, then we need this law. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: Then why don't you agree?]] – But we do not need it as you want to say, no, we also need it extensively on small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is not as you claim that small and medium-sized enterprises have all the means – AWS and so on – that is not the case! [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: But?]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Bartenstein]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: 22 percent utilization!]] Go out to the establishments and see how the permits and how long the waiting times and how difficult the procedures are! So if you are for the industry, and that is not, as you have said, 500, but it is more than 1,000 businesses, which allow you to easily get to credit, then you should definitely also include small and medium-sized enterprises, otherwise what you always claim – the small and medium-sized enterprises are so important in this country – just empty wax. I've heard this for 30 years: SMEs are the backbone of our economy, SMEs are so important, SMEs represent more than 90 percent of businesses and, and. – Everything is right, but nothing happens, quite the contrary! If large businesses settle, then the taxpayer's pocket is seized, then there are housing aids, then there are support for jobs, then there are redirections, then there are financial injections when they are in trouble. [[Abg. Bookbooker: labour market!]] There is a strong deal going on, which is basically all right, only if SMEs are taken out of the market and an SME is not given anything at all. Take a look at the craft companies with ten or less employees! If they're in trouble, no one's helping. No politician comes by with the thick wallet and smiles into the camera, just like the big businesses do. – That’s exactly the point! If SMEs are really at your heart, then you must finally take action and do not adopt a law that explicitly excludes SMEs. I can only tell you one thing: Either vote You are applying this amendment today and you are including SMEs, or I never want to hear from you again that SMEs in this country are so important, because that is empty wax! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] SMEs, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, should no longer be regarded as stepchildren in this country, because they are simply too important for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14030	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14052	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It's about doing the right thing at the right time. [[Call at BZÖ: We already heard this today!]] Many today have said something very important: It is true that the majority of employees in Austria are employed by small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why, of course, this government, as the very first and already, I believe, has decided half a year ago on an SME package that it has and still has. Of course, the small and medium-sized enterprises were helped first, and of course no one is up to us to redouble here, if it is necessary. But with a little common sense everyone will understand: As long as the money available to small and medium-sized enterprises has only been used up to 22 percent, we will not be giving up the good money, while we have not yet taken precautions elsewhere and is really in need of men. We also have major problems with the large companies. The difficulties in exporting are also experiencing, and unfortunately, especially those companies that are absolutely solid, investing in the future, innovation and export, which promote research and development that are researching in this country. Exactly those companies with more than 250 employees contribute mainly to 65 percent of our research rate. If they are currently getting into liquidity bottlenecks and are currently in need of bridging aid, we will, of course, help these companies! We're at their side, because it's nothing less than that: Do we still have growth in Austria in the future? In the future, do we still have in Austria the large companies that give the small ones the contracts that employ the small research units that award the large research contracts that make the large exports that can finance and implement large projects? For this reason, we also guarantee the larger companies – only in the second line, but not only the small ones, but also the large companies – survival in our country when they get into trouble. We thus guarantee growth for the future in Austria and the jobs of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14087	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14109	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr. Lopatka, I wanted to talk to you right now. The OECD reports are available, you mentioned that. However, they have left behind the fact that, in fact, an essential block is that we in the government and in Parliament should already break our minds about how the consolidation costs for this crisis should be borne. That's where you or the ÖVP are staying. And for a good reason: because you want to agree with the people that the so-called administrative reform could only solve the problem. You don't believe that. You don't believe that. To this end, you contribute to the credibility of politics. It is quite clear that anyone has to pay for the costs of fighting the crisis. We're just talking about the ten-billion package again; imagine, it's going to be a little beating! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Exactly!]] Who's asking? – But we still come to these conditions. The background is simple and touching not the psychology of the economy. The economic operators are all smarter than you present here, and they know very well that sometimes we have to pay for it. The more the question arises – then, if it is necessary, not now, I give you the right – after tax increases and after who carries them when they will be necessary. This is also a social policy issue, and the only reason why you keep this from happening is that you are simply and grippingly down to a purely rich party, because you do not want to address the central question that this one of your clients should also contribute to the maintenance of the social and educational state. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is your problem, and you are now supporting the whole country, out of ideological irration, I think, because you could talk about it very openly now. This administrative reform, as good and as right as it is – we will work there – we do not believe you until we have the federal states in good time. There will be a question of the courage of the ÖVP, because the question of how long we can really afford that all the national leaders are running around, defending every nonsense in the federal state and selling it under federalism. This is a false political folklore, against which there is a reaction! But you don't do that either, so it's a double disbelief. Everything fits into the picture – let's come to the law that lies here, it adds itself to the picture! The 10-billion-€ package would be a good thing, which is really a lot of failure if the credit terminal is already taking place, possibly also to the large businesses. I have nothing against being held liable to industrial firms. On the contrary, in Austria we have an excellent industry, which in the situation may also need some kind of back cover. But the question is how we shape the laws. It is good that this has come out of the bank package, because it is no longer needed there or can no longer be knocked out there. But now we are dealing with exactly the same issues as the bank package, and the horror is coming to an end. There was already the criticism that there are too few requirements. Now you take the money away, but the requirements for the industrial liability package – which is probably the better translation – are much smaller or no longer recognizable! This is already a problem, because you have to explain why you cannot make restrictions on dividends in the event of an occasion, of those who have to be found over these liability frameworks. That's important. It is not necessary to ban every dividend – that is total nonsense – but a certain restriction is needed. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: It's in there...!]] No, there's something of fairness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] They are not even able or willing to submit the directives to that effect. We already have the same problem as with the bank package: They announce guidelines for today – and the Secretary of State is sitting there – but they are not available, but we should agree. We're not doing this on this basis anymore! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The best proof of this is that for managers bonuses there are no wrong limitations again, but a typical waschivaschi formulation, quite different from in the Federal Republic of Germany. Again, the failure becomes apparent. MAGNA is now setting itself up by €300 million, on the day, and the biggest manager salaries are paid out there! There's no welcome. Although short-term work is being done there, Mr. Ober-Manager Sigi Wolf is still cashing over €4 million a year – and you do not intervene in any way. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] Why don't you think about why people get narcissic?
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14183	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14204	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This company liquidity strengthening law, which is at the heart of the debate today, is an important contribution to the fight against the economic crisis, and it is an important contribution to the maintenance of jobs. In the area addressed by this law, 300 000 people are directly employed, and if we add to this the many additional jobs on small businesses which are contractors of these companies, we can speak of 500 000 to 600 000 jobs. This law closes the gap we have. The AWS is about promoting small and medium-sized enterprises and now in this law is about promoting medium-sized and larger enterprises. Thus, we have a continuous programme from the small business – in reality, through the tax reform a promotion of the individual company – to the large companies in Austria. This law should, in particular, allow access to liquidity for larger companies, because at present this liquidity is not given in the capital markets. The instrument of federal liability, which we have chosen, is clearly preferable to other instruments that were previously discussed on a regular basis, such as the required guarantees for corporate bonds, even for economic reasons. The aim of this law is also that it concerns healthy companies. It is not about companies which are already in economic difficulties, but about those who were healthy companies in the previous year but are now in difficulty due to the effects of the economic crisis. These difficulties we want and will prevent by this law. A very important point – also in the law, Mrs Lichtenecker – is the location of Austria, which is clearly defined: the connection to the maintenance of the site of Austria and then also to the maintenance of jobs. That is why your request, which you have made today, goes empty in that it is already explicitly anchored in the legislative matter and is intended for the basis of liability. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: You know that exactly...!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: A Fata Morgana is that! It's a fake!]] This law is not only an important contribution to strengthening Austrian companies, but also to solving the overall economic problem of the credit terminal, which is not only an Austrian problem, a problem of the Austrian banks and the lack of will, but also a problem of capital markets throughout the world and in Europe as a whole. [[Abg. Bucher: So it's a problem!]] [[Further call-ins]] We are a pioneer in the European Union by this law, because we provide an effective instrument here, for example by adopting the triple-A-bondity of the Republic. Austria, as well as the companies, lends this credit and is thus also an answer to the question of increasing own resources rules in banks. That is to say, I believe that this measure will also provide a correct response to the relief of the credit terminal, which is much more direct and efficient than the often one-dimensionally debated yielding of Basel II, because it also directs itself to the companies. The problem at Basel II – which has been discussed today – is not the core idea – I would like to stress that already! – that the increasing risk of default must face more equity. This approach is, in principle, correct because the problem with Basel II is more likely to be in its procyclic strengthening effect. In other words, we need to go into more detail here and look less for one-off answers, but see how we can handle this problem on the ground without completely disposing of the capital rules. Moreover, the European Council, the ECOFIN, recently expressed this view in its conclusions. It is therefore, I believe, more sensible not to discuss one-off measures here, but, if so, to discuss a more comprehensive reform of the Basel II rules. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by stressing: We are not just taking an important step in supporting the liquidity of companies, but in particular in maintaining those 300 000 jobs directly available in the large industry and in the large and medium-sized enterprises in Austria, and in addition to 200 000 to 300 000, in the sum of 500 000 to 600 000 jobs which depend on this sector of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the responsibility of this Federal Government to give gifts to entrepreneurs in Austria, but it is our responsibility to counter the economic crisis in such a way that the economic crisis does not also constitute a social crisis. That's what we do with this law – and that's good.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14288	Next speaker: Mr Haberzettl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14309	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is now happening in the Republic Austria is actually something I call exemplary for Europe, because Europe is still being discussed at the moment: In what way can we make capital liquid in order to raise capital for the economy? It is, I believe, completely incorrect to assume that there are marode companies that need this capital, but also in times of crisis, it is necessary for companies to develop economically. For this further development, including for innovative development, medium and large enterprises lack capital. For these reasons, it is very difficult to get large amounts of capital. I also think it is right and important that these ten billions are taken from the liability framework of the bank package, because it meets exactly a demand that we all have here, namely not all the money to make available to the banks, but also money to the economy. I think this is the case here with this step. The demand that it must be healthy enterprises will, I believe, just those objections, that we do not give Marod companies the chance to be marode for a few years, but that it really points to the future and is about innovative ideas for the future. The term of liability of the federal government is limited to five years, and the liability ratio between 30 and 70 percent is, I believe, also fair, logical and correct. One of the most important reasons for adopting this law is the fact that this company's liquidity-strengthening law, on the one hand, supports businesses and, on the other hand, provides jobs not only but also, on the other hand, creates jobs. I think that is the right initiative, even at the right time. Mr Themessl, I would like to write the following to you in the main book: Don't say things that don't vote! The ÖBB has one of the most successful sectors in freight transport. I would ask you to read the annual reports or, if necessary, the balance sheets. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] There are public service sectors here, which is correct, but only for combined cargo transport. The rest is simply incorrect, what you say is that there are cross-subsidies here. However, we should also be talking about the cost-effectiveness of transport. You don't look very good with your trucks!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14370	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14391	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The corporate liquidity strengthening law – a word don't have 38 letters – what's behind it? – It is the third bank aid package that the Republic of Austria imposes on it. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Up to 38 he can count!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Is this the main point of your criticism?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Up to 38 he can count! The evidence's been delivered!]] It is only practically covered with a coat for large businesses. I would like to remind you: What have the banks received in support so far? – €15 billion to increase the equity ratio, €5 billion in increase in export liability. I applied at the time: What about the increase in export liability when exports are declining rapidly? – There they tried to explain something else to me. In the meantime, we know that the Raiffeisen organization has also taken a strong stand here, because it has received €4 billion from this title. And now there are these ten-billion-helps for corporate loans through a federal guarantee. Mr. President-in-Office Novotny of the Oesterreichische National Bank has recently said in the Financial Committee that the situation of the banks has calmed down and that everything fits twice again. We therefore have normal times, he meant, and in normal times – if it were really so – the banks would not have to get additional guarantees in order to be able to lend. But I do not think it should be so, because there is still a risk that some of these obligations will no longer be brought in in the East. Just think about it: If only 10 percent of the obligos we have in the East are out, that's 30 billion €! It's already asking: How are the large banks really going? Why do we have to be on the scene with a new bank package? . I am becoming increasingly aware that the Court of Auditors must not examine because other cases of problem are in the basement. I'll tell you one thing: As long as this government does not put the truth about the status of the local banks on the table, it will not receive approval from the FPÖ for further liabilities or loans from the tax pot. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We don't want to continue supporting dubious East business. What is particularly surprising to me is that SPÖ is so strongly supporting this EIA policy in the banking sector. There are a lot of bank managers sitting here in the National Council, set up by the ÖVP. I can remind you: Mr. Ferdinand Maier, Mr. Jakob Auer, Mr. Karl Donabauer, Mr. Grillitsch, and Mr. Ikrath as Secretary General of the Sparkassenverband, are sitting here from the Raiffeisen Group's Advocate General. This is a reason why these bank packages are so wonderful that without holding, the packages are enchanted from the hat and the SPÖ ensures that these packages are also implemented. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals consistently represent the line that our Clubobmann Strache has already mentioned: It is only then that the Court of Auditors can examine the banks and also those companies that come to terms with state liability, that there will be a willingness to talk with us. Only then, if those managers who work in these establishments are fixed at the level of the Federal Chancellor's income, will be talking to us. And only if Austrian businesses are supported for purpose, and above all if SMEs are supported, can you talk to us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14473	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14495	Mr President. The Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal under consideration is more evidence that this government is capable of action. After two economic packages and a collective reform, this is now another package to support large companies. In fact, the formulation that applicant companies have to stand on a healthy basis leaves behind because one could assume that healthy companies get loans without State guarantee – which is undoubtedly also related to how much the banks want to be partners of the companies. Undoubtedly, the bank package should keep the credit industry in motion. This is likely to be the But obviously not working that way, which is not surprising, especially since the banks are currently operating with surcharges that make loans impossible. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] It will therefore be all the more important to ensure that the conditions are in order when implementing this package. But it is undoubtedly important to put in place measures which are now giving impetus to the economy and helping to maintain employment. This is undoubtedly the case with the ULSG and with the SME package, which was decided some time ago. These packages are different, namely, the possibility of post-life insurance for large companies. This formulation certainly gives wide space, I would say. At this very point, the control bank and the advisory board will be required to ensure that there is not double liability for old loans, but that fresh money comes into the system to boost the economy. The SME package already decided before works. This is also verifiable where it is treated. I am convinced that ULSG will also work and that all the packages that the government has previously chained will, together with the well-established Austrian economy, ensure that Austria gets through the crisis a lot better.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14540	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14561	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! So we don't know each other anymore. First, Mr Lopatka and Mr Pröll, Minister of Finance, told us that there was no credit terminal at all – and then Mr Schieder, the Secretary of State of the State, will stand up and say that we absolutely have to decide today so that we can finally get the credit clamp under control and loosen it. [[Abg. Grosz: One hand doesn't know what the other one is doing!]] So what's right now, Secretary of State and Minister of Finance: Do we have a credit terminal or do we not have it? According to the experience we have with the small and medium-sized enterprises, we think: we have the credit terminal! And not just that: There are extensive problems in financing, investment, growth targets are being postponed, there is a shortage of capital and very serious problems for small and medium-sized enterprises. Now, in turn, there are two – Mr Lopata State Secretary, I can interpret what your colleague Mr von der SPÖ says: [[Abg. Krainer: what do you say?]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] In case of doubt, that is always true of what SPÖ-Schedder says, just so that you can take what Mr Coalitions has to say to you. [[Demonstratetive applause with SPÖ]] I don't think so. I think we're having a lot of problems. And Mr State Secretary, if you tell us that it has already been done so much for small and medium-sized enterprises, there are only two possibilities here: Either this is not true because they still have the biggest problems – or the crisis has become much more acute, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we argue that we want to take account of the small and medium-sized enterprises in this package. That's our desire. We want to support small and medium-sized enterprises. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To this end, I can make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this would have a certain balance and fairness, and that we can also successfully fight in the fight against the financial weakness that the country is currently facing as a result of the international crisis. In the same way, we want to achieve this with further measures, Mr State Secretary. If the measures so far are not sufficient, we must take further measures and further economic recovery steps. That is why I am also bringing forward the following motion for a resolution by Mrs Bucher, ing. Westenthaler, Ing. Lugar, windwood, colleagues and colleagues on the BZÖ economic recovery package, with which we – I am explaining this now in the broad lines – have a comprehensive opportunity to support the economy, but also the private, with individual, really good points, by reducing the tax burden, such as an investment premium of 10 percent of the investment amount for the next one and a half years. If Mr. Collegue had the goodness to listen: Do you remember, for example, our 2002 joint economic recovery package, where we decided for the years 2003 and 2004 on such an investment growth premium? This was a very successful thing, which was praised by Wifo and IHS as a targeted and right measure. Please accept us. Let's make this 10 percent investment premium for the next one and a half years! This would be an input, a signal also for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: If we already have this credit terminal, why do we not have the Austrian National Bank to lend favourable loans directly to SMEs? This too is a right approach that we have in our package. The third possibility would be that we would simply grant support for income tax charges in companies in need for the duration of the crisis that is still in progress. An hour in this direction would probably be a right measure. And it would be very important, finally – this is something that would be very easy to make and would be a useful measure – to abolish the state credit fee within the meaning of the Fees Act. All these are measures that will help and really support small and medium-sized enterprises – up to tax credits when taking professional or master's exams. [[OBJECTIVES]] There is another measure that we repeatedly demand: that we also buy these individual companies, 100 000 individual companies in Austria, then tax support – 200 000! – if they employ at least one or more employees. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: 200,000!]] Mr Matznetter, do you know what an impulse for the workplace, for the labour market, would be if we were to bring tax relief to individuals?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That would be a right measure which we propose in our package. [[Congratulations to Members Bucher and Ursula Haubner.]] Up to uniform corporate taxes and our flat-tax model with uniform taxes to relieve people, up to the increase in the amount of single earnings and the amount of children's retirement. I think these are really good measures. Take a look at the package once in a while! Think about if you can't support it! These are measures which, on the one hand, reduce the high tax burden and, on the other, constitute a good measure against the financial weakness of small and medium-sized enterprises. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14705	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported. The motion for a resolution, which was just tabled, was presented in the broad guidelines and in accordance with § 53 para. 4 Rules of Procedure distributed in the Chamber. Both applications are related to matter and are therefore also under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14935	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14956	Ladies and gentlemen, we had a heated discussion earlier. I do not want to go into this now and I am looking forward to the continuation following this announcement. Mr Westenthaler, I actually thought that you were also saying a few words about the current bill. The principle debate you have initiated today should actually be held in the committee. There you are cordially invited; I think that would be better. As Mr Kogler has rightly pointed out here that it is useful to link this package of measures now, I would like to say that in the direction of the opposition parties – and I do not say this overly –: You either have to confess to what direction it should go, or you have to say the opposite. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's not true!]] In reality, this is a measure to promote stability: for the large industry and for those companies that create jobs throughout the supply sector. That's important. And if we hear what happens today if something can get beating here, then we have to take into account that it is precisely those companies that we expect from economic security, that is why the liability is borne. I may refer once again to this Section 4 para. 8 indicate, because the question is always asked, what are the conditions by which this is to be distributed now. A directive will therefore be drawn up here. This directive very likely provides that consideration should be given to the maintenance of jobs. Therefore, one should not pretend to be not regulated – that is explicitly stated in the law. As a further edition, the appropriateness of the distribution of profits to owners is mentioned here, namely the question: what do they pay to their owners?, so that the financial structure of the company is maintained here as well. This is also stated in the edition. Similarly, the legal effects are noted in the case of non-compliance with requirements, as are the reference systems on the Board of Directors. All that has been claimed by critics today is thus expressly stated in the law. That's all you can do. That is why we will, of course, be happy to agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e14993	I call Mr Königshofer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e15014	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Here again we have a discussion on the banking package and the following; we have already talked about it in the morning. This bank package has some shortcomings. In particular, it has not occurred what you hoped for: the banks' willingness to grant loans. The banks were still suspicious, they continued to hold back the money, not even giving themselves loans. They gave the money to the OeNB, to the ECB, which then bought back some government bonds from Greece or elsewhere. The economy feels it when there is a credit terminal that is small as the big businesses. Only the big ones have a bigger lobby. The industrial enterprises will have just gone to the industrial union and have probably said: Dear Industrial Union, we don't get credit, we need liquidity. As a result, the Industrial Union will have gone to the Minister for Finance – and this has been the result. What I'm not saying is that it's bad to get 10 billion € out of the bank package for this purpose and devote it to it, just: You missed the little ones. And this, ladies and gentlemen of red and black, is your mortal sin, especially your deadly sin of the ÖVP, because you have not taken into account the small and medium-sized enterprises! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grossruck and Dr. Matznetter.]] I know, I know, there are the instruments about AWS and so on. But, Mr Matznetter, you have also said that the signal effect is precisely in the crisis – and you have not put this signal effect on small and medium-sized enterprises! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That's what you've missed, that's your death sin, and that's what you'll have to answer to the little carpenters, castle masters and the tourist family businesses, ladies and gentlemen! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Now I am addressing the Social Democrats – on the topic of credit clamps. I welcome once again the proposal I made a few months ago – and Mrs Rudas, you cannot say that the opposition had no proposals – that: I urge the government once again to negotiate with the American investment firm Cerberus in order to share the shares in the BAWAG P.S.K. for Austria buy back! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This bank, the BAWAG P.S.K., is the home bank of the Republic. There are over €8 billion of payments per year via this bank! This bank has the potential and structure to act accordingly in the capital and credit markets in Austria. Do it! Push Not all of the opposition's proposals! Jump over your own shadow and enter into constructive discussions! The would be of benefit to this Republic, to the people and to our homeland! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e15098	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Also 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e15120	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have really heard a few times now and all too often, it is all right, it will be done enough, it will still be done a bit more, but the economy seems to be prosperating anyway, the unemployment figures are going back and the crisis has been overturned. That is the way to hear it from the speakers of the government groups. Unfortunately, the facts are still different. I don't know how long you want to check and wait. We hear again and again about the banking package – that was last October, we had talks between the political groups at that time! The representatives of the government groups no longer know that this has been decided by the old government; they believe that the bank package has been decided at some point now and you can wait and review it. Ladies and gentlemen, a three-quarters ago, we all decided together on the bank package. Today, you make our consent a charge. You know very well that we were, of course, prepared to take responsibility in this area, but on the condition that these liabilities, these grants, which were given, are also passed on to those whom they need. And it is not only the large businesses, but also the few medium-sized ones that are going to encourage you again today, but it is hundreds and thousands of small businesses that urgently need the money or the support! [[BZÖ and Abg. Kickl.]] It's still too little! I do not want to criticize the banks on a flat-rate basis, because there are different. In part, it is also different within the institutions. This is where departments and officials are trying to support themselves, and there they are only reaping superiority and rejection. And it can't depend on whether you've just caught a good or bad bank or a good or bad manager, whether your own company survives or not! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr State Secretary! I have already said it here a few times: There would also be a need for a few things in the administrative field. What about the accounting rules in order to relieve those companies that, although they have to pay taxes on the invoices they have issued, do not receive the money? Or Basel II: We have not yet heard of any Austrian initiatives to ease the Basel II criteria for lending. This would not cost any money at all, but only needs commitment and initiative from the Federal Government. Finally, it would be necessary to provide support for innovative enterprises in relation to legislative measures. If I see Mrs Worm - I think from Burgenland - where are you from? [[Calls: From Tyrol]] It's from Tyrol, good. So your colleague – there are several same names – your colleague in Burgenland made a clear commitment a few days ago to helping a threatened company in the photovoltaic field in Burgenland, which needs to reduce employees. There are many such innovative companies where foreign large companies only wait for them to get and lock even more problems in order to buy them up with their know-how. It would also be useful to help these undertakings by facilitating legal provisions, especially in the field of renewable energy and future areas. [[Abg. Krainer: That's what the Carinthian says!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Yes, but Mrs Wurm, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, we have in these days, for example, the eco electricity law on the agenda, where nothing is done in this area, where, as far as I have heard, one may make a gift to the farmers' association with the biodiesel, but nothing in the field of renewable energies or photovoltaics! We would expect you not only to sit there and say that it would be all right, but that, in addition to measures for banks or in addition to administrative savings, you will also create reliefs for these innovative businesses and ensure that they can make a business again and survive – especially as it prevents a lot of good Austrian know-how from coming abroad!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e15190	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 284 of the Supplements. The following additional or amendments have been tabled: Amendment tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker, ladies and gentlemen, and amendment by Mrs Bucher, colleagues. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Ing. Bucher, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, Dr Lichtenecker, colleagues and others have each tabled a similar amendment, which refers to the deletion of Z 4 of § 2 in Article 1 and the resulting amendments to the terms of reference. I would ask you, Mr President, if you would agree to these requests, to give them a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who stand for it to be a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Dr. Lichtenecker, colleagues, on § 4 para. 8 in Art. 1 refers. If you agree to this amendment, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Dr Lichtenecker, colleagues, who will insert a new paragraph. 11 in Art. 1 § 4 zur Inhalt. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker, colleagues on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1 § 6. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[13:22:39]] 2. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 681/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a Federal Law on the Implementation of OECD Principles of International Debit Legal Assistance (ADG) (285 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Financial Committee on the request 696/A by Mr Lutz Weinzinger, colleagues on a federal law amending the Banking Act (BWG) (288, B.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e15332	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Weinzinger. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e15361	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! These two are certainly not irrelevant applications, materials that are being dealt with here. One matter is the loosening of our banking secrets; a legal institution that we are very proud of in Austria, about which we, the economic operators, the banks, but also, of course, the foreign economic operators who are visiting us are very happy. You can have different approaches to this and say: Well, there is abuse, as abuse can be done – abuse can happen in all areas and in all materials – and we have sufficient opportunities to prevent or prevent this abuse. That is why it is very questionable – and I am very excited about the current debate – how it is assessed that we should actually move towards the evasion of this banking secret. In addition, the tension is getting bigger because you need a two-thirds majority for this and it is questionable whether it will come about. The second matter we are dealing with here is to amend the Banking Act to ensure that the deposits of our citizens, the private people – not the businesses, not the large companies, it is not about small and medium-sized enterprises, it is simply about the citizens – that the security of these deposits in banks in the form of savings books, savings deposits and the like is extended to another year without limitation. We have this possibility, but we obviously have, in advance, the possibility that the EU has granted, namely that until 31. It was said that this security was extended by 31 December 2010 instead of being adopted. December 2009, i.e. at the end of this year. I already know that this is a psychological act to a very large extent. It is about the fact that our citizens, who have been saving for years and decades, are good and offering some euros each month, 10, 20 or 30 €, feel that this money is definitely safe. Nothing insures our fellow citizens more than the fact that their small savings assets could suddenly be nothing more valuable that they could be lost because the bank is in bankruptcy. [[Abg. Krainer: What have they had in the last 40 years?]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Kickl.]] What have they had in the last 40 years? – In the last 40 years, you have had the certainty that our economy has worked perfectly and that nothing can happen. And now they have been experiencing for a year day by day, week by week, that all this is no longer true, that everything is in motion and that terrible things could happen. – Therefore: Let's give them this opportunity! The request from me and friends of mine says nothing but that we use a possibility which also gives us the EU, which is actually more rigorous in dealing with such things, and that period until 31. ==References== In the interests of our hard-working and brave fellow citizens, I can only ask you to accept this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e15410	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e15431	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What's so beautiful? – “I don’t make a murderer’s pit from my heart!” and say openly: I'm disappointed today, and I also call the disappointment by name. The disappointment is: Werner Kogler, Lutz Weinzingerund Sepp Bucher. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Why? – Because these are three colleagues from the Committee on Finance, which I very much appreciate, with whom very constructive and human discussions were always possible, and which – I am always trying to achieve consensus – have always received all the information they wanted. I think we have a climate in the Financial Committee where we can really say: There is nothing hidden, any question can be asked. Again and again, together with Mr Krainer from our coalition partner, we make informal group leaders discussions with the offer: If you have problems, if you have questions, if something is unclear, then we will sit down and try to solve that! That is why I am disappointed today, because I have always taken the arguments of these colleagues – and all three colleagues know that – seriously, I have always tried to get their approval. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Television is already gone!]] We have also decided delicate things together here; I only say: Bank package. That was not easy at the time, but we decided together. Together we bear the responsibility. Now, with this law on aid, it suddenly looks different. But not because the contents of the law would be bad. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] – Mr Kogler, I know what you think, I know what you, as the executive clubman, clearly have to say. It is not about the content of the law anymore, but it is about the fact that you are now obviously trying to make political exchanges. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You can only do this at the ÖVP!]] You know, this is a matter that needs a two-thirds majority, and you say: Okay, even if the law is fine, we want a purchase price for it! – It’s not indecent in itself, but I’m still allowed to say that I’m already a bit humanly disappointed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Peter Westenthaler, therefore, I am not pessimistic, but quite optimistic, because I cannot imagine, especially with these three colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, that they take responsibility for sanctions against Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The market is always an exchange business, isn't it?]] Even if any comparison, Peter Westenthaler: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But go, stop!]] Once again in this country, politicians do not get to approve of sanctions against Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Failed!]] You remember! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who says that? It's getting more and more absurd!]] That is why I am quite optimistic that we will succeed until the beginning of September when the G 20 meet again to reach a consensus here. I'm optimistic. Although I am disappointed today, I am optimistic about the basis for the next few weeks and months. There is no doubt that we are going to have the same day as before. The experts of the Ministry of Finance are available at night. I expressly mention: Colleague Kogler really inquired deeply, has always had contacts – I know the contacts – with the Ministry of Finance, with the cabinet of the Minister of Finance, with tax lawyers, and, and, and,. I really appreciate that, because I really like to talk to interlocutors, negotiators who are competent to talk to in the matter. I have also said recently in the main committee – Mr Mag. Kogler, you know – I really take your arguments seriously. I say quite openly: I'm not saying that about everyone here from the speaker's desk, but I'm really taking your arguments seriously. And I'm sure we'll find another solution. What are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen? – To believe that Austria could be the only country of OECD standards, not to mention where the banking secret for domestics remains completely untouched? [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Yes!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: I've been telling you that for three years! I am the only one who has even argued in this direction!]] Mr Weinzinger, you know: The dear little saver you mentioned so heartily does not tangle at all. It is only a matter of not being able to say, under four conditions, in the field of military assistance: Bank secrecy, there's no official aid! The four requirements are: It must be a very specific case. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where does that stop?]] It must be a fiscally relevant link. Money flows must be demonstrated in Austria. And it must be explained to the requesting State that it has exploited all national possibilities. Only under these four conditions can we not say, unlike so far: Bank secrecy, we don't give you any information! The political message is: The banking secret for domestics, for the famous little saver, remains completely untouched, but we do not want to protect foreigners who are tax fraud. That's the message. Again: With all disappointment today about the three colleagues mentioned above, I am optimistic, I am convinced that they do not want to have – all three do not want that – that sanctions against Austria will be decided.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e15611	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e15633	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, it is already interesting that you now feel so deeply affected and that you want to change, but perhaps you are also deeply affected by human beings if all of this is true. And I do not believe – I am also opposed to it; it was already the discussion this morning – that tax evasions are now being protected. I am really opposed to the fact that traders, entrepreneurs, even successful entrepreneurs, are so easily evaded as “tax evasioners”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] If that is the case, Mr President, I would like to give you a good tip: [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Foreigners!]] Go to the Little Walser Valley, there is a Raiffeisenbank. In the Little Walser Valley, you know that? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Jungholz!]] This is one of the smallest banks in Austria with a balance sheet total of € 1 billion, € 2 billion of assets, and deposits rose by 15 percent last year despite crisis. Then go to Raiffeisen and ask if there are loud tax evasioners and tax fraud. – I say no! [[Abg. May. Kogler: I say yes!]] As you stupidly said, Mr President, there has been so much discussion and you would have given so much information: Yes, but either incomplete or incorrect! Until the Committee, Mr Bartenstein – do you remember? – as well as other colleagues of your colleagues in the public claim: Austrians are not affected! - That's wrong. That is what you now know, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Of course, it affects those Austrians who are subject to tax abroad – the famous 183 days. These are thousands of entrepreneurs, working people in Germany, in Europe – no matter where – who have accounts in Austria, for example. This is what I look at when any German authority comes up to a plot or a suspicion, and then I just take a look at these Austrians in the bank. I am against that, and I am there to protect myself from the Austrians, who are also working abroad, because they come back to our country sometime, perhaps with more value added. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's the point. And that's just not okay that you suggest to the Austrians that nothing happens. So far, there has been that, there had to be a financial penalty – then sufficient suspicion. I believe that this is one thing that needs to be looked at more precisely, because it cannot be the case that, if you want to do so, Austria is immediately throwing its achievement of banking secrecy overboard. We are therefore saying: Hands away from this bank secret! Don't even pick up a tip, because once you open up a little bit, what's next! Is there any further steps to take once we have taken this step? Is this going to be aired? Or what's the whole thing? Is this not perhaps a political exchange of the Minister of Finance by saying after his journey through the East: Be careful, you're helping me a little bit with the Raiffeisen promotion, and for that we're meeting you at the banking secret!? . For such political deals, we are not to have if you think so, Mr President. That's not what we want. It's not in question for us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] In addition, I would like to ask myself the question: What is this government afraid of? Mr Krainer, Mr Pendl, Secretary of State, what are you and the Minister of Finance afraid of? - Against grey stylists? Because anyone is threatening that Austria will be on a grey list? On demand, the Secretary of State tells us that there may be sanctions against Austria. I'm telling you today: There will be no sanctions, because the EU – not us, but the EU! – learned from 1999/2000. And if it is really the case that the European Community is calling sanctions against a Member State on this issue, then we really have to ask the question of what such a Community is worth at all. And then we have to defend ourselves and go straight there and not with curved hump. That's something very important. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Something else to the end, because we have already talked so much about parliamentarianism today [[Abg. Krainer: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Stumblingly) Colleague stupid, not all of you appreciate because of the expertise, could it be that there are those in the room who listen?]] That is not true either, Mr President, Mr Krainer, as you are dealing with this matter in Parliament. Firstly, there is a Member of Parliament who does not explain something to us in the committee and does not discuss it with us there in order to perhaps win us, but who insults us and treats us a little badly – remember what happened in the committee! This is not the way we want to work together. But also the following: While we have negotiated this in the Committee, i.e. when it has not even been decided by the Committee, let alone in plenary, on the same morning the Council of Ministers has already decided on a negotiating power. You're dealing with Parliament in such a way that you say: What is happening there does not matter to us at all, we decide once for a negotiating power, we are negotiating at the same time, because Parliament is anyway irrelevant! – This is also not all right in connection with this matter. If You're saying, Yes, there are also demands of the opposition, perhaps also with regard to the debate on two-thirds of the majority!, then it is politically legitimate first of all to ask: What do minority rights look like? How do you even deal with the opposition in this House? – That’s a legitimate question. Secondly, you must not forget that this will not be the last matter in this House that needs a two-thirds majority. I think that even in these days there will be one more, in the defense of the country. You will need us even more often, at least one of the three opposition parties. Therefore, go inside and consider what we have discussed today in the debate on the objection, whether the way in which we deal with the opposition in this House makes sense. I'm saying this completely disconnected from the content: It doesn't make sense. You should include the opposition in business order and not exclude it, and you should not discuss it properly, but rather discuss it properly. This is a legitimate request that we make and that we ask you to take into account. Otherwise, you will not receive approval for materials which require a two-thirds majority if not even ordinary parliamentaryism is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e15746	The next speaker was Mr Krainer. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e15768	For the accusation that I had insulted someone in committee: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are colleagues who are known for their expertise. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You said you didn't listen anyway!]] And there are colleagues who are known for their honesty, and there are others who are also well-known because they are still dishonest. Mr Westenthaler falls into this second category for me, and to take it so seriously is what he gives of himself. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The next building block for the two-thirds majority!]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: This superiority!]] I am in favour of having a very open and honest discussion here, including on the question of banking secrecy as a whole. And if Minister Pröll says here in the discussion – and I have to criticize it – that we certainly do not do an automatic exchange of information, but only an exchange of information on request, then in reality it is a matter of honesty to say: Austria has already committed itself to participating in the automatic exchange of information! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Interest Policy!]] That was under the government of Black – Blue/Orange. The clubman and other representatives of this time, who criticize this today, are sitting there. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] The liberals have set up a single finance minister in the history of the Second Republic, that was Karl-Heinz Grasser. Grasser was the Finance Minister who agreed at the European Council that Austria was committed to participating in the automatic exchange of information without any banking secrecy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Within the framework of banking secrecy!]] In the automatic exchange of information, there is no banking secrecy at all, since there is no legal remedy at all for a person concerned. [[Abg. Neubauer: Why do you have to negotiate if there is no longer any such thing?]] Please check with my colleague Bucher, who has at least some expertise! - That's the first thing. To discuss openly and honestly. That means we have to be clear, not Austria decides how long we still have the banking secret, but Andorra, Switzerland, Liechtenstein. As soon as they do the exchange of information on request, as we want to do now or today, but as we will have to do sooner or later, Austria has already committed itself to participating in the automatic exchange of information. – This is the first thing you have to say clearly. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If you continue this way, you won't get it anymore!]] Those who appear here as guardians of banking secrets come from exactly that party, where the Minister of Finance has already agreed that this is no longer true at all, not even the standard we now have. The standard we now want to introduce is the same that applies to an Austrian or to a taxable person in Austria in order to say that correctly. If a financial authority, the financial authority, or suspects that there would be tax evasion, a procedure will be initiated, and banking secrecy will be simply lifted for someone who is in Austria, with a possibility of appeal for the individual. The same standard now applies to a taxable person in Germany. Every year, banking secrecy for people subject to taxation in Austria is also lifted. This is also to be done in the future if someone is not taxed in Austria, because banking secrecy is not a protection for tax evasion in Austria even today. This can simply be abolished at the request of the financial authorities by means of a proper legal procedure. Now explain to me why someone who is taxed in Germany should be legally better placed than someone who is taxed in Austria. There's no reason for that at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You say Austrians are not affected!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] I say quite clearly: No, we don't want to protect tax evasions, not at all, whether the Austrian, German, American or whatever. We are against tax evasion and we will not allow Austrian laws to be misused for tax evasion. [[Abg. New builder: For the protocol: No applause at the SPÖ!]] This is the essential question here, namely tax evasion. If FPÖ and BZÖ want to stand in front of the tax evaders and protect them, they should do so. We don't. [[Abg. We do not want to protect your foundations!]] We believe that everyone should pay taxes – whether they are in Austria, because the banking secret does not apply to him or is taxed in Germany.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e15960	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Set speaking time: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e15981	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! I'm allowed to start with a quote; it's from the 29th century. February 2008 from a guest comment in the magazine “FORMAT”, which bears the title: ‘combating tax fraud and money laundering’; That's what I'm saying: “The other countries will no longer be able to see individual states serving as a safe haven for tax refugees and representatives of organized crime.” And then we're going to go on: “This is how intention and content of the EU interest directive should finally be implemented.” – This is what was meant earlier. Further: ‘The elimination of banking secrecy’ is inevitable. – I have written this comment myself. He's been printed like many others. For years now, representatives of the Greens have been the only economic and financial politicians who have approached this issue openly. All the others kept it different. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is also to be accepted, because you can also have a different access to it. I also respect the position of Mr Westenthaler or that which the FPÖ Group has expressed if this is so to speak. I only mean – and here we are completely different, although we meet in other matters – that there will actually have to be changes from the point of view of content and, secondly, because of meaningful international agreements. We'll talk about it then: Yeah, but which one? Are they sufficient, are they the right ones? I would draw attention only on this occasion to the fact that it is not just a matter of making some funny ladies here, but perhaps the objections, the concerns, the proposals for improvement against the present law, the law on administrative assistance implementation, should not only be taken seriously, but perhaps at least the attempt should be made to bring them in, because then there might be an agreement. But there's no point in trying. That's what we're going to be talking about. I also say once again for the protocol, because in the future this may be really important that it can be re-marked who has behaved when the Greens are in the "standard" of 25. Feber 2008 quite clearly have pointed out that the OECD rules, which have existed in this form for three years, have been in place for three years now in Austria. This is going into this year, and it really started in early March. Austria had to give up its reservation under pressure – at least at one time the Minister of Finance presented it – and suddenly OECD rules should apply. Here we have – I can get the APA of 13. Quote March 2009 – said: ‘If changes are necessary, the Greens will be ready for negotiations’. – 13. March 2009! We have also been in contact with the Ministry, but Mr President, I am quite right. It is only the Members who have to vote here in accordance with their conscience and also according to an attitude as to how they evaluate the proposals that come. It is not true that we have not formulated any questionable signs and objections here. I can now simply put them in peace. This Act of Enforcement may not at all comply with the OECD rules you place such a value on. You always say you have written it down literally. First of all, that's not true at all. I'm bragging about why you can be very suspicious. I again agree with the speakers of the Liberal Group and Mr Westenthaler. It's getting tricked and cheated that the beams bend. I quote Pröll: “The banking secret remains untouched!” and, above all, in the consequence, it remains untouched for the Austrians. – That’s not true! That does not matter to me, however, if it is a good regulation, because that is something else. It is only striking that the public representation is tricked and cheated. The main problem, however, is – and this is visible and audible with free eye and ear – in Berlin it is thus spoken and in Vienna so is spoken. This attitude is taken for the camera. [[The speaker represents a camera-friendly attitude.]] That's exactly this double-beddedness that the house always reaches and which the ÖVP has to answer; you can do that perfectly. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] If you're caught up in a fresh act, don't go to the others, but look at how to clean that up! There are now other objections than from previous speakers to the Civil Service Enforcement Act. We start with the conditions for this. It is not clear whether the same tongue is spoken here again. The famous story, yes, if there's a suspicion. In Berlin it's said, yes, that's a bit further anyway, that's right. There you meet with Steinbrück, too. In Vienna it is said, yes, if that really is, there must be almost a tax fraud, but at least – what I know. That's not the same thing. Do you know what problem we are creating, in relation to the second story? The conditions are not clear now. If you read the comment on Article 26 OECD pattern agreements, you will see that this is not entirely in line with what is publicly announced here. If you read the explanations of the law, you have a similar impression. Now we're going to review. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] It is the law that, in the course of a procedure that takes a relatively long time – and I will also carry it out extra – the Austrian authority is required to check whether the foreign authority has done everything – and that is how it will be done in the case of us. who says this: quite strictly – that the application in Austria will become, so to speak, eligible for approval at all. I consider this to be a weakness in this law, because this leads to two different state authorities having to beat each other in accordance with the other state law. In my opinion, there is still an even greater need for clarification. – Yes, behind the hand you hear something else, namely: It's not eaten as hot as it is cooked! And now it says again: That is enough if the person concerned has been asked; that is enough! – But there is something different in the explanations. In this context, it is also interesting what time-limits are generated: The Austrian authority must accept this once – after they will need a biterl, I can only say there – and it must necessarily communicate with those abroad, without any exception; this will raise a problem of its own. The person concerned then has four weeks to consider whether or not he is calling. If the person concerned is called into question, the authority in Austria is getting back into play, which by the way, by the way, has to be named by the Minister, which is not yet available. The authority needs time – and then it is another six weeks period in which the person concerned can appeal; that is why the whole thing is done. I respect the attempt to re-enact a rule of law – that is in itself a respectable idea – only time-limits will be created, which may not meet the OECD's requirements, which at least will not meet the partners in the double taxation agreement. This law of enforcement is, as it were, just a crutch in between – and that does not say anything, because at the end of the day, the agreements with the countries come to an end, and we will see what is on the table. As long as you do not present a double taxation agreement with those countries where there was criticism – France, Germany, for example – it is not verifiable whether it will hold. We have the impression that in Germany one does not know how to solve this in Austria, but at the latest during the negotiation of the double taxation agreement, the cat must be out of the bag. If reference is made to our ADG, then we will come to the next problem, which we will be able to break down with it and possibly hold the OECD against it: We write in the Act of Enforcement mandatoryly – I have already mentioned this, and I think that is already the fifth criticism point, at least another open point – that the person concerned needs to be informed. – After the Pröll division, the person concerned is a potential tax evasioner – or even a fraud. So if this is the case, then the OECD is quite right to say: It must be possible to have exceptions so that all these requests for information, precisely by this understanding practice, do not lead to the purpose of the investigation being avoided! So to speak, vulgarly translated: You can't tell every Gauner that it's determined, because then he'll create the evidence on the side! It's logical that this is a big problem. The OECD Directives therefore assume that there are derogations. However, with this Act of Enforcement, this is completely evaded; there is no exception! The At the end of the exercise, we cannot even be sure that that is accepted by those you want to follow. You of SPÖ and ÖVP claim that we have to do this because of the OECD; They claim that it threatens international sanctions there, but cannot even present to Parliament that this is accepted by these institutions at all! Before, you can't agree with this at all, because otherwise we have the same tango here in three months, so to speak! If already clean up, then decent and also a decent fight against tax fraud – and not always this double game! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In Austria there are practices which cannot be eliminated by this law at all; the place Jungholz in Tyrol has already been mentioned in this context. And as you know, the RAIKA Jungholz offers a “goldfinger number account”. I can quote “Goldfinger” RAIKA Jungholz, from the self-representation of the Annual Report: All personal information stored safely in a data safe and are accessible only to a small, selected, strictly regulated group of persons. - Quote. That's how you want to interrupt the ban on anonymity. Although the customer is known to the bank, everything is locked away and there are only the number accounts. – This is not to be reconciled with OECD’s proposals on how you try to present it. You say about the coalition that it must be known a name for the question. But this name is nowhere known; that cannot be asked! Another problem: If you delay the deadlines for half a year to a year, I am looking at whether, in the meantime, all data can actually be secured in order to fulfil the purpose of this investigation. If at the same time you allow such anonymous things and don't solve them, then there's fire on the roof that the very big fish that it really is about will get through your fingers too. Either the others don’t “overdo” that – which I don’t think is right – but if that comes to the table, we have a problem again when Austria negotiates with Germany about it. Double taxation agreements on the table, on the basis of this law, and if then everything fits, we can continue to talk! Or you have to take up the evidence in a different way, why you still have six points to question. And then you don't come from the coalition with us that we don't have any concrete objections anyway! Coming to the end: From no one can learn it better than from the ÖVP that negotiating bodies are negotiating bodies. And no one understands if you threaten that the opposition is to blame because the OECD is doing something. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You can improve the law, and you have it in your hand, in addition by negotiating two-thirds majority packages, to reach an agreement from the opposition parties; that is, a very normal process in politics; otherwise, you do it every day: in the government, in government negotiations and so on. – So don’t come to me like that! Explain to the people of SPÖ and ÖVP why the Court of Auditors must not finally examine the bank package! If you want, say “Junktim” to it. – We mean, if we have two-thirds majority matter, we'll negotiate it under one. We have tabled a request, which we could decide on Friday. Imagine, yes, we could agree, if that is also adjusted! As far as Skylink is concerned: There is a test competence for 25 percent. At the moment, it is not even certain that the Court of Auditors will be allowed to examine, as is the case with this affair, which, in any case, all of us are going on the cookies, so to speak, this affair at Vienna Airport. In any case, we need a change in terms of a two-thirds majority, because it will not be possible to do so with a single task; that is a constitutional problem; it is similar to that of other things. This is therefore quite a normal political process, and I therefore ask the representatives of the ÖVP and all those who are threatening to explain to the people, perhaps the Secretary of State, why the Court of Auditors should not review the bank package. Explain that, please! – The OECD understands this for sure; the OECD is certainly on our side, and we will also talk to OECD representatives. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The OECD is sure that transparency belongs to economic life in Austria. – With this you can no longer “speak” us. – And on the subject of negotiation practice: The Federal Minister for Finance was not in the committee for the whole matter, although it is supposed to be so important, but it has found time to swadder around with the Christian-social trade unionists on the trade union day. That was the same day! The time has already been – but not for the Committee. Today, the Minister of Finance is not here again, although this is supposed to be so important! How do you even imagine that?- Oh, my God! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The Greens had drummed a five-clobby round together, which was on Thursday last week. – The result was that on yesterday morning we received the information that what the opposition presented was “too much”. If this is your understanding of professional negotiation, I can only say: Good night, ÖVP! But don't accuse others!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e16229	Mr Lopatka spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e16250	Mr Kogler, I do not know if you have noticed the contradiction you are in: They are right, they were one of the first to recognize this issue and to take massive action to make it change. – Now we want exactly these changes, and you are again the first to disagree. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] That's the big contradiction. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Clear the contradictions!]] I'll tell you why. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Explain yourself...!]] I can answer that relatively simply, you just have to listen to me. Today, Luxembourg has been removed from the ‘grey list’. A double taxation agreement recognised by the OECD has concluded Luxembourg with Austria. [[Abg. May. Kogler: With Austria!]] So you, Mr Kogler, are worried about something you do not have to worry about. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You don't even live up to it!]] You said that yourself. This has often been misunderstood by other Members, as if it had something to do with the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a problem between Austria and the European Union that we were kneeling or afraid of the European Union. – This debate, which we have to engage in, is at another level, just at OECD level. Therefore, to say the thing quite clearly at the beginning: The crucial point is that in the course of the financial and economic crisis in London, lists were presented by the OECD at the G-20 summit, and Austria is unfortunately on a “grey list”. At the level of the states' communities, the pressure on those states that are on “black” or “grey lists” has been greatly increased in order to achieve uniform standards worldwide, and I think this is the case. Our problem, where you are now saying that this is almost a disdain by Parliament, is that in parallel with Parliament we will find the necessary two-thirds majority and we will have to put these double taxation agreements on the table as quickly as possible, because on 20 March we will have to do so. The G 20 finance ministers meet on September 20 to address this issue at the next G-20 summit, which is part of the comprehensive package to address this financial and economic crisis with sustainable measures. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Come on!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's where we're afraid now!]] Therefore – and for no other reason! – this is of great importance to us – with “our” I mean the Austrian economy, because it is also about securing jobs. I will tell you in detail what these sanctions might look like, because this has already been established internationally. In the German Bundestag there is already a law on this subject in the drawer. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They have even decided!]] I will because you always wipe this aside... [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, they have even decided!]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] What are we afraid of? - No, we have nothing to fear. This has been directly addressed by Mr Weinzinger in his speech, so I will tell you and also ask for understanding that I already want to have the necessary attention from your side so that no one will say that it has not been known to him afterwards. [[Abg. Brosz: And why don't you finally negotiate this seriously?]] This is not a threat from my side, but I would just like to mention those facts that we face if we do not come together to the necessary majority. Without the legal basis, the double taxation agreements we conclude are naturally obsolete. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why is the Court of Auditors not allowed to examine the banks? Explain this once!]] Therefore, first point: All taxpayers resident in Austria are not affected by this law to say that clearly. [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, that's true!]] - That's true. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right, that's true once!]] But that is the very, very large number of those who have accounts in Austria, in order to say this quite clearly. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How many Austrians are affected?]] I therefore understand, honestly, not why Mr Westenthaler – I know he has a heart for sport – appears here, for example, for athletes who live in Monaco, but for some reason, perhaps because the sponsor wants to have an account also in Austria. I would like to be able to look into it and check if it pays its taxes properly. I don't mind. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't say sportsmen at all! Businessmen!]] – It is also mainly sportsmen who live abroad, for example in Monaco. This is precisely the case with these Austrians, who are looking at the fact that they are not taxed in Austria, but for whatever reason they are moving their residence abroad. This is a very small minority, but it is precisely about these cases. Mr Westenthaler, I am happy to explain this to you in retrospect. This Act of Enforcement is the solution to exclude the tax subjects who are in Austria. There's nothing going on about bank secrecy. The banking secret remains unaffected in the form it is and as the Austrians appreciate it. However, this law makes it possible to comply with the international standards that the OECD is calling for. It is precisely defined and negotiated with the OECD; I myself was able to discuss this with the Secretary-General of the OECD on a point-by-point basis, together with Head of Section Nolz in Paris. We have subsequently also been sent by the OECD in writing, which standards we have to meet in order to meet these requirements, and therefore I tell you that what Luxembourg has done today is our big goal in this regard, because so far we have been on the road in the same line with Luxembourg and Switzerland. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why don't you submit this to the Committee?]] The Swiss do not have all the double taxation agreements yet, but we do not want to stay on the track alone. That is why I would like to tell you what it means to remain isolated from the international community. This means that we can be placed on a “black list”, already in the autumn of this year. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Buh!]] Now you could say, my God, on some list you're always on. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: For 25 years...!]] We don't want to be on a list in this case. [[Abg. Grosz:... Smear!]] Why don't we go on a list? If we are on this list, then defensive measures can be taken by the other states, as they are called and as they have already been established, first of all at international law level, that these States will dissolve the double taxation agreements that we have concluded and which are in our interest. [[Abg. Grosz: That means they march in Austria!]] Then we no longer have these double taxation agreements. [[Abg. Grosz: Armed with ballpoint pens!]] But with regard to economic and fiscal sanctions, it would be a fatal effect for a state like Austria – we have already discussed this today – with 60 percent of the export share, especially with our most important economic partner, Germany. In Germany, a tax evasion law – a long word – has been introduced in the Bundestag, in which it is clearly defined – as has already been clearly stated in other countries, for example in France – as one would like to do. [[Abg. Grosz: Lopatka will defend us from the invasion of the EU force!]] First of all, the increase in the withholding tax on payments to these countries, namely to us. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, right!]] Secondly, the refusal to deduct operating expenditure if the recipient is resident in such a country. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Go in at the club!]] You have to imagine what this means for our entrepreneurs: as has already been said, the termination of the double taxation agreements, the refusal of tax exemption for participation gains and a number of other measures. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You can prevent that from happening!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this would, of course, have a massive negative impact on our economic relations, especially with Germany and with other countries. [[Abg. Grosz: Why don't you mind?]] All that I have told you here has also been discussed in Berlin and is supported by the OECD because we want to achieve results. I therefore appeal in particular to Mr Kogler: I really don't understand that you are suddenly looking for arguments that really don't have anything to do with the matter in order not to agree on in the past few years. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You haven't answered a single point yet!]] The crucial point, let me say clearly once again, is the double taxation agreements that find this recognition. The basis for these double taxation agreements is this enforcement law, but we can only decide on this enforcement law if we get the necessary two-thirds majority. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Go ahead!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: But only in Austria!]] I therefore ask you, in the interests of the economic location, to give your consent to this law in the interests of jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e16690	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e16712	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. I listened very carefully when Mr. Kogler gave his speech, and it was already significant for him who otherwise tried to find out that his speech was this time with expressions such as “genuine”, “backhand”, “may be”, “may be”, “adult” and so on. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But this is the plain where the pomp...!]] Once one would have ignited the deliberate production of a “fama. ” In fact, Mr Kogler has missed exactly what he said he wanted to present, namely facts. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Six points!]] The only fact was whether this bill, as we are discussing it today, is in conformity with and appropriate to OECD, Article 26 and its implementation. Mr Lopatka has answered this clearly. This has been clearly discussed with the OECD and is considered appropriate. However, I do not understand at all why you now at once reject what the Greens have called for over the years and what is now at the table, namely tax evasion possibilities – and I am now expressly speaking of opportunities – to prevent taxpayers from improving the provision of information abroad. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We even wanted a lot more, something else!]] [[Abg. Grosz: It's only Mr. Voves! That is what Mr Voves is doing.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why should I believe this?! You fought until yesterday that there is! The ÖVP has said 20 years, there is no such thing!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Withholding taxes is only the SPÖ!]] That is why the suspicion is enormous – and therefore we are appealing to the responsibility of the Green Group – that you are not concerned with this regulation in the sense of reducing and eliminating tax evasion opportunities, but it is a suspicion that the Greens are actually concerned with very different issues, issues that have nothing to do with the present law at all! I would therefore also like to appeal to you, because it is a very serious and crucial question – for the economic location, for businesses and for jobs in this country. Whether we land on a “black list” at the end of the day – with all the consequences that Mr State Secretary Lopatka has very correctly reflected and which actually have a tremendously dramatic extent – or that can be avoided by the Act of Implementation which is a suitable basis for adapting the double taxation agreements, is the responsibility of the House and thus of every political group. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... References!]] To the address of the Freeman, I would like to say the following: The banking secret, which constitutes a high legal asset, similar to the secret of letters and the secret of telephone, protects individual citizens from arbitrary encroachment into their privacy, we have consistently secured. That's something we all want. I have formulated this even more dramatically before and I would like to repeat it here: There is no room in our legal order and legal tradition for officials to enter and go out of Voyeure arbitraryly and at any time in the monetary bedrooms of our citizens, and that will not exist in the future because we do not touch § 38. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What does “voluntary ” mean?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: (shaking the head) That's right...!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't do it anyway!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: These are not the Germans who...!]] It is only about whether we are able to comply with the OECD Article 26 and ensure its implementation or not. This responsibility of the House for this, but also for all possible consequences, is indivisible.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e16916	The next item is the speech by Mr Grastaur. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e16937	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say something about what Mr Krainer said, because he threatened that we would be guilty of sanctions. I would like to remind you, Mr Krainer, that the first sanctions we have been imposed have taken place on your initiative. When the voters decided at that time that a blue-black government would come to pass, you prayed directly from the SPÖ for sanctions. I recall Mr Gusenbauer, how he in Paris, with sect – probably champagne – started and celebrated that Austria has been subject to sanctions. [[Abg. Krainer: On the defeat of Hitler-Germany!]] So it's not like that, dear Mr. Krainer! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the FPÖ: That's how it was!]] Secondly, I would like to point out that in Austria, even here in the National Council, there is nothing more that we can decide for ourselves. The decisions are being offset from abroad, we ourselves are under enormous pressure, and decisions are made by others for us. From my point of view, this Act of Enforcement is about abolishing banking secrecy in Austria in two steps. This is intended in the first step once for foreigners and in the second step for nationals. That's just like the Amen in prayer. [[Abg. Strache: This is step one, and then step two!]] Our distrust can be justified. They remember that we were promised that the schilling would remain. What happened? – The euro was introduced without the people being asked. It has been promised that transit rights will not be attacked during transit through Austria. What happened? – The transit rights are gone. [[Abg. Temelín! Beneš decree! True promises that have never been fulfilled!]] They promised to maintain the university rules. It has been promised that we can decide whether we can grow gene products in Austria or not whether we want them or not. We have also been promised that neutrality will remain. – All these things have been abolished in the meantime. What's going on is neutrality: I just remember the fact that Austria is already half in war in Chad. It's about home affairs to our liberals. This banking secret is just like neutrality. The Austrians depend on this home law and therefore we are in favour of the banking secrecy as it was. Nor do we want it to be a development like in Germany and Hartz IV will be introduced in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's right!]] This would mean that in Austria, just as in Germany, there is a “glass person” and that anyone who becomes unemployed or is to receive social support from the country will first be taken away from the savings money – which he has spent many years saving himself. That is not what we want, and therefore, as long as it is possible, we are fighting for the maintenance of banking secrecy in the form we know it. I hope it stays with you! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17039	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17060	Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me not only to look at the OECD principles from the frog perspective, but also to put this question of the transparency of money flows in a developmental and international context and to address the question of distribution justice. The Tax Justice Network has calculated that in 2005 alone wealthy individuals have invested about 11.5 trillion US dollars in offshore financial centres and that this has saved some 255 billion US dollars from the Fiscus worldwide. This figure covers only illegal and legal “tax-free” and tax evasions of individuals. Companies are not included, so it can be assumed that the number in total is much higher. To tackle global tax erosion is likely to succeed only with a legitimate and very strong international instrument. In the end, however, national implementation and implementation of these foundations, like the OECD Directive, are also necessary. Tax havens, we all know, are unfavourable to fair development. This will result in a loss of revenue that would legally be granted to the public, and thus expenditure, such as poverty reduction, education or infrastructure, cannot be incurred. Tax havens are havens for sheltered assets of dictators or autocrats which undermine the rule of law. The OECD principles would be a very important step in the fight against tax evasion and tax dumping. In addition, we could continue a great many steps towards a gender-friendly, redistributive and progressive tax system – with an effect we would like to have, with a greater transparency on profits from multinational corporations. I find it very strange that the opposition does not go along with this question. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17102	As the last speaker to speak, Mr Ing. Höbart. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17124	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary Lopatka! High house! I personally believe – but also some very renowned economic experts – that the economic situation will in no way improve in the next few months. On the contrary: More and more companies eventually implement short work and even cancel employees. Soft plants – as Mr. Vice-Chancellor always has to say – are expected to recover at the earliest in the middle of 2010, rather towards the end of 2010. Until then we will experience more, quite bitter hours. Whether politically close to and also quite incapable of managing the red and black lines is guilty of such developments, one has to discuss here before, I mean; Tag AUA. I see here a man in the ranks of the ÖVP, who had not meant for too long that the AUA was self-reliable, which has now proved to be a fatal mistake. Whether greedy managers – especially from the financial sector – are guilty that this crisis is growing in such a way, at the end of the day the people concerned are not in any way interested. The point is that many people – that is what Klubobmann Kopf rightly recognized this morning – have already lost existence or are facing a very, very uncertain future. Therefore, it is now the duty of the hour to put trust-building measures in the direction of the population, which ultimately does very hard work year by year, month by month, hour by hour, and more than ever – I must say, unfortunately, more than ever – pay taxes. The FPÖ has therefore made a sensible contribution to the request 696/A, which is about to extend the unlimited liability framework for private savings by the end of 2010. This extension of this unlimited deposit guarantee serves, on the one hand, to strengthen the confidence of the population in the Austrian financial system, to the Austrian financial system, on the other, and on the other hand – and that is, in the end, much, much more important – the protection of savings balances. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. You have to say that quite clearly here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I really have to take all of you into account – to accept this request, otherwise the next betrayal of the population in our country would be threatened. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Großruck]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17199	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote. With regard to the draft law in 285 of the Supplements, there is a referral request from Members Dr. Stummvoll, Krainer, colleagues and a referral request from Mr Ing. Westenthaler vor. I shall immediately vote on the draft law on the implementation of the Civil Service Act in 285 of the Supplements to the Financial Committee and seek a sign from those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is unanimously accepted. The vote on the proposal itself will be taken. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Financial Committee to take note of its report 288 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[14:23:28]] 4. Point Report by the Financial Committee on amendment 680/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988 and the Fees Act 1957 (286 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 682/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the assessment law 1955 – Assessment Act Novelle 2009 (287 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17291	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Grosz. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17319	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are discussing today the government proposal on the Income Tax Act, which also regulates the deductibility of the care costs of disabled people. That is right and good, and we will also agree with it, although we would have expected some measures to be taken, especially in the area of tax deductibility and in the area of foundations at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] Today, we are also discussing a government template that will create additional costs of just under €4 for Austrian households through children's passports. Ladies and gentlemen, especially of the great coalition! With every small thing – and be it only when it comes to children’s passports – pay attention to 4 €, which you can pull out of the bag of people in Austria. But what about your own assets, with the assets of your parties, that you – be it from the SPÖ, but also from the ÖVP – park in a row in foundations? [[Abg. Großruck: The ÖVP has no foundations!]] You park your assets, your millions, in foundations – Julius Raab Foundation, colleague, no excitement. [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: This is not a foundation!]] There is still a lot of foundations that we will reveal in your area, you don't need to be afraid at all. They are very reticent in this area at all. With teeth and claws, they defend the foundations – the locust foundations – which, for example, the social democrats in Styria, in Upper Austria, but also in Carinthia have developed over the years, and I remember a little. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] I remember the events of the last three months. 16. April 2009: One kilometer of airline – or 700 meters of airline – from here is the excellent Café Landtmann, in which a certain Mr. State captain Franz Voves – may have been known to you – spoke of trying to nail the so-called rich to the cross. One month later, exactly on 13th. May of this year, I have, we have, the BZÖ has presented the foundation certificate about this ominous SPÖ-Steiermark-Stiftung. The first thing Mr Voves did was that he threatened us with a complaint. All of this is a lie, it's disgusting, it's a defamation and motivating campaign. What did it reveal? – A foundation building with 31 companies and an estimated assets of more than €50 million. [[Call the BZÖ:Pfui devil!]] Then it was lied that the beams bend: The foundation is non-profit, says Mr Voves and the former Social Democratic Finance Minister, a certain Mr Staribacher, who may still be known to some of you; this foundation is non-profit and only supports unemployment projects in the Styria; this foundation has never financed electoral struggles of social democracy in any form; there is no tax debt, that is all a bagatelle; this foundation operates lupenrein and anyone who claims something else is threatened by the red comrades in the Styria with complaint. [[Abg. May. Grossmann: On the topic! On the subject!]] What is the hard work of the truth? What has developed in these three months? – It reveals de facto the largest tax scandal in the history of the Second Republic, in which a party is directly involved in which it is the main perpetrator. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Parties located in this House – even today – on tax laws, but themselves are not able to comply with their own tax obligations; Parties and politicians who demand the citizenship of the Fiscus by the citizens of our country, but even pass their assets by the tax. The SPÖ-Stiermark-Stiftung – which has been impressively confirmed by an impressive decision by the Financial Office of the City of Graz – has been set up in order to pass party assets of Styrian social democracy by the tax. The same as in Styria, where Sodom and Gomorrah appear in tax law, we have in Upper Austria. Every Austrian pays a lot of taxes, but Mr. Voves and Mr. Erich Haider – and as they all call them the comrades – park their assets in locust foundations to quote Franz Müntefering, the well-known SPD chairman from Germany. By the way, the Foundation's guidelines were adopted by the head of state Voves. On December 9, 2004, he was personally changed by Voves himself – not by a certain Mr. Schachner-Blazizek, who now has to offer as an elegant peasant sacrifice, but by Voves – in order to pass on responsibilities to the party. The foundation – and this is now aware of the fact that you can read the facsimile in all the daily newspapers – has financed electoral struggles of social democracy under the guise of public utility; a non-profit foundation that has been set up to serve charitable purposes in this country, charitative and humanistic purposes – and has come out a tax park instrument from which the comrades serve themselves as from the free hand cash. This foundation will have tax debt in the future, it will have tax debt in millions – in the millions in which the SPÖ passed away assets from the tax. From this former political scandal, which we discussed here for the first time three months ago, a unique criminal case has now developed in the history of the Second Republic of Austria. And now? – Now comes the enlightenment, the wisdom that meets social democracy. Mr Voves said at the beginning of this week: This foundation is now being dissolved. This is a completely wrong political decision. If he had anything to say, this foundation would never have existed. - Quote. Reminisced: It was he himself who agreed to this Foundation in 2004 and developed a common instrument out of this foundation, which is part of it! Because of the words: The SPÖ must not have a foundation, and not even a non-profit!, he also has on Monday, at least for his Styrian Members, who now, I believe, have completely left the plenary session – no, but not, colleagues Muchch can be seen; is hardly overlooked – because of the words that SPÖ should not have any foundation and no non-profit, it will be exciting how social democracy will vote here and today. Da_te Her own Federal Party Chairman Faymann says: The SPÖ may have foundations, but only decent ones!, now asks me what you are from the Styrian Social Democracy. – Indecently, I always knew that, but that this has now confirmed your own Federal Party chairman, is once again something new in this whole discussion. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Especially one has to say: The words “consistency” and “social democracy” are not at all compatible when you look at the scandals of the last 60 years. These are two foreign words that do not fit together – neither in Styria nor in Upper Austria. That is why we will today make the request to ban all the foundations for parties. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Hundreds of thousands of Austrians pay taxes – just you from SPÖ. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We make it easy for you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy: We will call for a nameable vote on this so that the citizens of Upper Austria and Styria will know who you are serving here in this House. Do you serve the Mammon of your parties, the money you park in foundations, or do you serve this country and the people who have to pay taxes daily in that country? In order to facilitate this decision, we call for a name-named vote. Does the word of Mr Faymann apply, or does the word of Mr Voves apply? I am delighted to see what the ladies and gentlemen, Silhavy, and as they all call, will deliver here at the time of the vote today. I now make two requests. [[Quoted print version removed]] Second request: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Bucher, Mr Grosz, Mr Haubner, Mr Colleagues, on binding standardisation for the whole of the "foundation law" that the pursuit of political purposes does not constitute a promotion of non-profit purposes The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is asked to submit to the National Council a draft law as soon as possible, which makes it mandatory for all of the foundation's law that the pursuit of political purposes does not constitute a promotion of non-profit purposes." I am very excited, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, whether the half-life of your promises lasts only a few minutes or two days, or whether you take seriously the words of the Styrian SPÖ chairman, the Kernöl-Karl-Marx, and adapt your voting behaviour to this House today. I ask for your consent and thank you now.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17492	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17597	The next speaker was Mrs Tamandel, who was also speaking for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17618	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Grosz, if you are making yourself here and the Raab Foundation – no, I did not say that I am criticising everything – if you are producing yourself here and comparing the Raab Foundation with other foundations, then you might want to research what the Raab Foundation is doing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] I already have to say to the other things you mentioned: I do not believe that it is necessary by law that parties should not make private foundations, but that this is also a matter of reluctance whether a political party holds a private foundation or not. [[Abg. Kickl: Just for her protection!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you finally have a private foundation and don't know if it's non-profit or not, then you shouldn't – as Mr. Voves from Styria did – shout so loud that the benefits of the foundation should fall, because otherwise you yourself are very much exposed to criticism and thus gets into the spotlight. I think that Mr Voves is sorry anyway, because otherwise this would not have happened to the light of the day, but would probably have disappeared somewhere under the ceiling. As Voves now does not know exactly how he comes out of this foundation, I have already mentioned at one of the last National Council meetings that there are, of course, not only foundations in Austria that one has to doubt, but also foundations that create a lot of jobs and that one does not necessarily have to go through. If these foundations did not exist, there would also be no such jobs. It is not the right time to talk about any additional taxes on companies or shareholders of companies again and again, because that also endangers jobs, and we do not want to do so. The amendment to the Income Tax Act, which is now under negotiation: This amendment is not about the care of disabled people, Mr Grosz, but about the deductibility of care costs for disabled children, which already exists because of the tax reform. – At the time, you voted against this family package, which reduces child care costs until the end of the 10th. ......._____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ – For disabled children, however, also apply: until the end of the 10th term. Year of life, and therefore, it is only good that this scheme is now extended to include disabled children who have an increased need for care. On the passport costs, Mr Grosz, to the 4 € you are getting. I can only tell you if we would not have reduced the charges for the children's passport to 30 €, then the parents would have to pay 70 € pass fee, and I think that's not in our sense. You, Mr Grosz, also said at that time that we have halved the tax on entry for the foundation. - That's stupid! We introduced the entrance tax and abolished the gift tax. These are facts, please, don't always twist them! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In principle, with the amendment of the Income Tax Act, we have made only one step further towards family policy, following the family package with which we have introduced or increased the deductibility of child care costs, the child allowance, the children's surcharges et cetera. We also show where our competence lies. For polemics, Mr Grosz, we have you here in the House, and we do not need to take part in this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17686	The next speaker was Mrs Haubner. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17707	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The agenda items now under negotiation deal with, as has already been said, two materials, namely the so-called children's passports and the increased deductibility of costs for disabled children. First of all, I would like to say quite clearly, as Mr Grosz has already said: We are going to agree to this extension of relinquishment, because it is necessary. Anyone who has a disabled child on his side knows that requires a lot of personal care, a lot of personal use, but there are also many financial burdens. We agree – I'm just wondering: What happens to those parents who do not pay taxes but who also have to bear such financial burdens? Here, I think, one could have done something in this context. I would have expected above all also from the SPÖ, which is so much like to be such a social party, to ask: What do we do for these parents, for these mothers – there are also many single mothers with them – who have disabled children? What do we do for them so that they do not have to bear so much of this financial burden? In the meantime, I believe that the SPÖ is more concerned with the tax-free handling of own funds. Mr Grosz has already mentioned this; especially the SPÖ Styria is very affected here, but also Upper Austria. The Upper Austrian SPÖ also holds a private foundation, a private foundation under the name “L 36”. [[Abg. Grosz: Oh, that's it?- Oh, my God!]] Of course, you have to research what "L 36" means – I know it now. In principle, there is nothing at all against foundations, private foundations for non-profit purposes, which have been mentioned many times. But I don't think a party needs a private foundation. This simply has a small side-taste, especially when I think of Mr Haider from Upper Austria. Haider repeatedly criticizes the low taxation of foundations. He was strictly opposed to this tax rate being reduced again, but his SPÖ here in Vienna has agreed to this low tax rate – here in this house! Erich Haider always bets in Upper Austria and says: Foundations are an evil, for there the rich park their money. – I wonder: Does the SPÖ belong to the rich because it parks her money under “L 36 ”? I also say that every employee, each one of us, every small and medium-sized company pays its taxes in good time, pays its taxes, and the SPÖ, the so-called social workers party, taxes its party assets by means of a foundation at the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Crist: We too!]] [[Abg. Christ: Do not speak the untruth!]] [[Abg. Shopf: This is the untruth! Untruth!]] You have to explain that to me. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You also have to explain to me how that is compatible with this election poster by Erich Haider, where in Upper Austria is posterted: [[the speaker presents a red panel on the speaker’s desk, which reads in white paper: “Justice instead of boundless greed!”]] “Justice instead of boundless greed!” – Where is justice, ladies and gentlemen? Mr Krainer said so full-bodied at first: We don't protect tax evasions. We are for openness and honesty. [[Abg. Crist: Do you want to claim that the SPÖ-Oberösterreich is deceiving taxes?- Oh, my God!]] – I wonder: How can this be reconciled? That is why I confirm here once again our request and the request we have made today that it should not be possible in the future for parties to have their own foundation. I hope you will also agree with this in the sense of political cleanliness. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Crist: Resist better knowledge...!]] Your colleague from Styria, Mr. Voves, has already taken the flight forward anyway and said: Generally, this foundation is nothing for parties. His chairman, Federal Chancellor Faymann, corrected it a little bit and said: Well, it's for decent foundations. He's got nothing against it on and on. Mr Grosz has already asked you, and I now ask you again: What is a “decent” foundation? That means the one in the Styria is indecent and the one in Upper Austria is decent?- Oh, my God! That's still so much need for information. In connection with Upper Austria, I would like to know: Is it true that five real estates, namely the party headquarters in Landstraße, the former party printing company and poster company Gutenberg-Werbering and many other investments in this foundation? Is it true that a profit can only be expected at the earliest in nine years, as has been said? Is it true that the additional revenue that comes from this foundation can be used for the foundation beneficiaries, namely the SPÖ? Is it true that the management has to be carried out in accordance with the principles of the business economy and that, above all, a maximum success has to be sought? As, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen here in the House, there is a real need for information – in the sense of Austrian taxpayers and taxpayers. I therefore propose an additional motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I invite you to agree to this in order to eliminate all ambiguities, including in connection with the SPÖ Foundation in Upper Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17845	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17923	The next speaker was Mr Hechtl. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e17945	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In advance to Mr Grosz. Thank you for paying us so much attention. You can be sure that the word of our Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann is weighty and valid. [[Abg. Grosz: That not by Mr. Voves? Elt message: Retirement Voves!]] He has proved this before the election, and he has proved it with the tax reform after the election. We'd like to hold on to that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Nothing Voves! Moved!]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me come to the present proposal. This request concerning the amendment of the Income Tax Act sets an important step in the right direction – a step that will ensure further support for our families, a direction, ladies and gentlemen, which the 2009 tax reform has already provided for the introduction of the tax deductibility of childcare. This development must be continued step by step and represents a clear commitment to the support of families and children. If we consider child care to be an exceptional tax burden, we are particularly obliged to pay particular attention to the care of disabled children. We agree that the care of a disabled child also entails enormous financial burdens on families in addition to the many requirements. This change of law will now reduce the cost of care for those children for whom an increased family allowance is granted until the end of the calendar year in which they complete the sixteenth year of life. With the increase in the age limit from ten to now sixteen years, the population has been substantially expanded. Ladies and gentlemen, through this path of tax deductibility of the care costs and the expansion of the population, the possibility of providing these families with tax relief and thus financial support that these families need in particular during these times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18008	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Strutz. – Strutz has been removed from the list of speakers, I have just heard. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler as a double speaker. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18032	Mr President. I can make it short: At TOP 4, we have a different assessment of the articles 1 and 2. However, I have seen that there is a request for a separate vote. Of course, we agree to improvements in Article 1 for disabled children, which are regulated here; We reject Article 2 concerning passport law. We agree with TOP 5 to clarify this. However, the debate was also allowed to deal with the tax treatment of foundations and was specifically addressed to certain foundations of the Social Democratic Party. Look, I can do this for a second. Strangely, the process in the Styria has already been to choose a foundation structure, originally not so much for tax protection reasons, but because foundations are of course ideal for building a coat to keep certain company braids in themselves, where it then goes relatively intrusive. This advantage is obvious. It is funny – and this must be done on the tongue – that the application for community benefit of the foundation of the SPÖ Styria was only made in 2006. That's weird. It is likely that Styria's social democracy has discovered that, after the ÖVP has lost its choice out of its own indebtedness and in this way, Mr. Voves, the head of state, has been created, one is suddenly dissatisfied: Now that we're ruling, we're non-profit. However, it has always remained open, which should actually be useful in this foundation, and also in this type of SPÖ post-chacher policy, which we repeatedly note. This is covered by these intransparencys in the Styria. But then it may be that the “memorial ” has been left of the“ common good. ” Now there is another question which is already a little more serious in this context. I mean, someone's got to recognize the common good, or at least do the thing: That's the financial authority. How is it possible that a political party in 2006 will come up after five years, hoppala, we are now non-profit, which will then be deposited at the financial office, and the financial office has taken four years to go after the matter at all? It is not an obligation, but a self-declaration – I think that is strange, we should fix it – but the tax authority in Graz has not seen any occasion for four years. Only through the development of the last few weeks has the tax authority become active. I find this process to be inconceivable. One should look at who is driving in the tax office in Graz at this point, that this thing is not being checked. Perhaps we should make an appropriate request. Let's see who's faster from the opposition colleagues! That would be a rewarding exercise – I think – because that really doesn't help me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last point in this context: It is gratifying when this foundation is dissolved – no idea if this is now something good or bad. The resolution of the foundation can, of course, lead to additional veils. That can't happen. In reality, it is not so much about whether the foundation continues to exist or not, but rather about the disclosure of the contracts and the payment flows. That's important! Liquidation is no longer so essential because I can also liquidate with the aim of letting everything disappear as far as transparency is concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18096	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Haider on the floor. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18118	Mr President. High house! Of course, it is hypocritical if the SPÖ Styria now dissolves a foundation that it has for years claimed to be nonprofit, under the pressure of the public. Of course, it is hypocritical if the SPÖ Upper Austria continues to perform the “L 36” because it is not nonprofit. However, it is equally hypocritical if the colleagues from the BZÖ are now so evocative that, in rare agreement with all the other country parties in Carinthia, the promotion of the party in a federal country that has really weak economic data is increasing from 40 to 60 million euros. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: But no foundation!]] They didn't even go the detour over a foundation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] - So much for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now on the real three issues of this agenda item. – To the Novel Evaluation Act. Of course we will agree. It is about e-Justice in the basic book procedure. [[Abg. Grosz: Roman Haider, the business expert!]] This is the state of the art these days. The fact that this is finally to be made possible can, of course, only be accepted by us. We only hope in the Assessment Act that this will not be the last conclusion of the government parties on administrative reform or administrative simplification, but that there will be a little more. To the chip pass for children. If you really believe in the EU and set out in an EU regulation that children now also need a chip pass, because there may be terrorist attacks in kindergarten, then it is only right and cheap – Mr. Klubobmann Kopf spoke about the poverty threat to children's families this morning – that this does not cause the same costs as the passports of adults. At the end of the period, the costs of disabled children were reduced to 16 years of age. Year of life. We will also agree that this is until the 16th century. ==References====External links== But that doesn't go far enough. A child remains disabled and causes increased care needs and increased costs, even if it is 18 years old. Why stay here for 16 years? But it's an improvement from ten to 16 years. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But it's not a child anymore!]] Even if a disabled child is grown, it still costs the parents. Since the whole issue of disability, children and the like really needs to be treated with caution, this needs to be looked at very carefully and which is a very inhomogeneous group – a five-year-old child who is disabled of course has a higher need for care than a five-year-old child who is not disabled; I can leave it to play for two hours alone – we make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18221	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18276	Mr Krist spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the actual correction and give the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18300	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haubner, in her confiscations, accused the SPÖ Upper Austria of tax evasion and non-ordinary management of assets. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: This is your foundation!]] I'm actually correcting: Learn history, ladies and gentlemen! As the Upper Austrian, they know very well that the SPÖ Upper Austria has been expropriated several times in recent times and was not allowed to have any wealth. You know that very well, because it was also your party's predecessors. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: What does it have to do with the foundation?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not an actual correction!]] The foundation “L 36” is the Landstraße 36, which is the address of the party headquarters.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18365	Mr President, I have reminded you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which say that the facts to be corrected should be reflected and that they should actually be corrected. [[Abg. Keck: Just make it!]] That's a speech you've been making so far. Do you want to continue with an actual correction?
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18391	There is no tax advantage because we have never been non-profit. It is an entrepreneurial foundation – you can discuss whether this is happening or not – but the foundation has not brought any tax advantage or tax savings. The benefit of the Foundation applies to natural persons – you know – who thus had an enormous tax advantage, in particular by the removal of the inheritance and gift tax, which, in the case of greater assets, is between 15 and 60 percent depending on the degree of relativeity. This is not true of our foundation, because the various assets that have never been legal persons in the Wirtschaftsverein Arbeitsheim Linz, in the Social Democratic Association for Upper Austria, in the Party and in the Home Building Association, have never been legal persons, and have therefore never been and have never been taxed on donation and inheritance. On the contrary! We have in the process of re-establishing
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18422	Mr deputies, you are indeed exaggerating the bow of the Rules of Procedure. [[In the case of the SPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Crist.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] I can also tell you that this was certainly an accusation which does not correspond to the dignity of the House if you claim, in the direction of Mrs Haubner, that your party was involved in the expropriation of the SPÖ assets. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Incredible!]] You know that, too. We continue in the speaker list. The next speaker was Mr Haberzettl. I would draw attention to the need to interrupt the discussion of this item on the agenda at 3 p.m. to hold a short debate. Do you want to start anyway? [[Abg. Haberzettl, who is already at the speaker's desk, denied this.]] – Then you will receive the floor on this item following the short debate. I'll interrupt the meeting by 3 p.m. [[14:59:20]] [[The sitting was suspended at 14.59 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.]] [[15:00:11]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18491	I welcome the interrupted session and, at the same time, interrupt the negotiations on the current agenda items for the implementation of the short debate. The brief debate concerns the request made by Mr Dr. Walser, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 644/A concerning a Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act and a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, a period of time until 9. ==References== At the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would point out that according to § 57 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes available to the first speaker for reasons of reasons. Comments from members of the Federal Government or State Secretary should not last more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18544	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Appreciated visitors to the galleries! High house! ÖVP and SPÖ have elected Martin Graf. [[Uah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: A good choice!]] It is these two parties, in addition to others, of course also the Freedom Party, of course also the second legal party in this House, the BZÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Greens have also chosen!]] These two major parties in particular, however, are the two government parties responsible for what has taken place in recent months in respect of the Austrian Parliament and thus also for the Austrian state, for our Republic. [[Call the SPÖ: The Greens were it!]] Don't be so nervous, ladies and gentlemen, listen, don't scream! Interestingly, the Social Democrats are also getting a bit nervous on this issue. Mr Krainer, I understand, because you were finally involved in the fact that we now have this condition in Austria. [[Abg. Weinzinger: An excellent condition!]] I can remind you that this state has been founded in an antifascist fundamental consensus to which the two major parties of the moment have committed themselves – you do not, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, we know about it; You can't confess to this basic consensus to this day. But this is still undisputed among the major parties. You have elected a human being to the high office – you have almost made him the robbers so that he can climb up here to the chair – which is not to this basic consensus. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: At least a human being!]] That is his good democratic right, that is not a question, but it does not correspond to what is common in that state. [[Abg. Weinzinger:... antifascist basic consensus!]] This state has been drawing a clear line between it and fascism since its inception. There is a clear line between racism and democracy in this state. [[Abg. Weinzinger: So, what is it: fascism or racism?]] In this state, Nazism is clearly rejected by all democratic parties that apply human rights. There are clear limits here. With his entire political biography, Martin Graf stands for the absolute opposite of it. [[Abg. Weinzinger: They have written the biography!]] At Martin Graf, all these clear boundaries we want to have moved into this state. I can recall a few things that were already known when you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, elected Martin Graf. Martin Graf, for example, appreciates Neonazi Norbert Burger, as he has announced – Norbert Burger, a condemned terrorist, if I may remind him of the appearance of explosive perpetrators, who, as co-founder, was the chairman of the NPD, who had been dissolved for re-acting. [[Abg. Kickl: This is against falsehoods!]] This Norbert Burger therefore appreciates our third President of the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Are you really a historian? I can't imagine that!]] Graf himself has performed as a member of the extreme right-wing "Olympia". That's all clear, too. [[Abg. Weinzinger: You dare to say that as a Member of Parliament, otherwise you could be sued!]] Of course, the “Olympia” is far right, Mr. Weinzinger! Look It is the annual report of the Ministry of the Interior from the nineties before the FPÖ came to the government, because it was still possible to write it. It is quite clear that “Olympia” is to be described as a framework for national and right-wing extremity. That is, please, the annual report of the Ministry of the Interior, not the DöW somewhere, as you might suspect, but these are official state institutions. Such an organization belongs to Martin Graf full of pride. As I believe, Mr President, this will not be different to this day. All this was, please, known when you elected him, that Martin Graf, who, before and after, exceeded all these limits we spoke of, through constant provocations. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Your speech is also at the border!]] I should like to point out, Madam President, that there are certain rules in this House in terms of speeches. [[In the ranks of the ÖVP there are several Members with their backs turned to the speaker.]] . I should like to point out to you that the back of these gentlemen may not please Mr Petzner, as he said last time, me. [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, well! Oberwitzbold! You discriminate!]] I think that you should listen to this debate, because it concerns, above all, you, ladies and gentlemen, especially my colleagues from the EIA in this case. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today's state borders are arbitrary, Mr Graf has announced. And he goes on to say that the German people must be able to develop freely in Europe. To this day, he also stands: to the German people. If you do not know, you are of course part of it. Or, Mr. Graf, do we agree? – Yes, he nods in any case. The provocations have continued after Graf's election, the provocations have system. “Renewed arm” – I quote here, of course, again literally – “Mr. Muzicant is the violent left mob on the streets. With his insults, the President of the Israeli Cultural Community creates a climate of political brutality, which is why many citizens already ask themselves whether he should not be called a patriot of antifascist left terrorism.” – Original quote Martin Graf. Another provocation accepted by you, by ÖVP above all! At this point, it has become too much for the rulers of the Socialist Group. From this point on, the Social Democrats have tried to get the emergency brake – unfortunately they have failed because of the strong resistance of the Austrian People's Party. And this surprises at the ÖVP a little bit, when we think about what individual representatives of the ÖVP have given of themselves over and over again. Ernst Strasser, at the time of the elections of course...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18769	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to interrupt you. You are now talking about 7 minutes of your 10 minutes, which you have to justify the deadline request. You still have 3 minutes of speaking time. I would suggest that the time limit should be justified and, at all, that a request be made.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18785	Thank you, Madam President. I would think that it is a point of reference to what Martin Graf has done to this state, to this Republic and to this House for a damage. But I'd like to come to this deadline for Friday, 10. In July, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and We believe that by then the committee responsible must present a report. Otherwise, the House will have to decide independently what it is like to create a choice. I would point out that the President-in-Office of the Council has now openly supported a general discussion on the election of senior officials, of course with the approval of a large majority of the Social Democrats. Martin Graf has done everything he can to become a symbol in this state. He should never have become a representative of this House, that he should never have been elected to the office of a Third President of the National Council! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Whoever, as is currently the ÖVP, with obstinate persistence, with political opportunism prevents it from being selected, is taking part in the dwindling popularity, at the dwindling reputation of the Austrian Parliament, blames himself for what has happened in the last weeks and months in Austria – I recall the disgrace of memorials, I remember attacks that have occurred in this country. We, ladies and gentlemen, in particular of the ÖVP, will not let you go of your responsibilities. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The clubman doesn't listen at all!]] We will point out that it is you who are still blocking a choice. We will also point out in the future that you are therefore responsible for the massive damage suffered by the Austrian Parliament in Germany and abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: You're right! The colleague, Mr Anschober, is elected – election in Upper Austria!]] You elected Count, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP. You have chosen him, and you are now also responsible for finding a way of rescinding him from this high office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18857	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of the speakers who are now speaking is 5 minutes each. Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18886	Madam President. High house! The SPÖ's position on this issue is clear and has also been clearly put on the table during several discussions. We are basically in favour of a choice of Presidents in this House, with a two-thirds majority. I also think that the proposal of the President, who was put into the debate, to obtain a written agreement of at least 92 Members on this option before the option of election, is very superior, because, of course, one also has a certain period of time until the actual election, in order to be able to examine it very carefully. I consider these proposals to be very, very dissatisfyable, but I think that the deadline proposal for this issue is completely missing. This is such a delicate issue, and we know that at present we do not receive a majority in order to really enforce it, and a deadline request rather leads to pressure into a delicate discussion which, I believe, is decided in this direction. [[Abg. Oillinger: It's about the debate!]] I also believe that we are well advised to think again about the other high-ranking officials, who currently have no options or a choice only by a simple majority, in order to rethink in our constitution a possibility of dissociating them specifically. I believe that this is a subject that is to be examined very carefully, not under pressure. We know that there is no majority at present, and I therefore consider the deadline proposal to be totally missing. We will not agree with him either. However, we are very much in favour of continuing to deal with this issue, and we are very much in favour of creating an opportunity. And I think it will also come at the time when this possibility is granted. At the moment, we are not in a position to produce this majority, and I therefore believe that, with a deadline proposal, one achieves exactly the opposite of what one actually wants, namely a discussion, an open discussion and conviction in the direction that one eventually comes to a conclusion, which then gives this opportunity. We will not agree to this request for a deadline. I would also ask you, within the meaning of the Constitutional Committee, to deal with this delicate issue a little less excited, because only a long-term objective will be achieved in this matter, and we should not consider individual cases which are not currently soluble, because there is no majority there, but rather general rules for all officials in high positions.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18924	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donner builder, for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e18979	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Also from our side a clear no on this deadline proposal, but also a clear yes to further discussion on this subject, but apart from an occasion and not under time pressure. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is, I believe, also for the listeners and for the citizens, it is not understandable that the Greens – which can only be explained from party-political calculations – take two completely different positions on one day here. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What?]] On the one hand, you say today in the discussion on the EIA law, which has been discussed for weeks, that should be abandoned, that it should be referred back to a committee, as it takes a lot more time. That's a simple law, please! On the other hand, something about the amendment of the Constitution – not only that; it is also a very, very important point, namely that Parliament's leaders, who are also responsible for the operation, are being discussed and decided now with a deadline, almost overnight, in the Committee! [[Abg. May. Kogler: This has already been discussed in the Committee! That's a difference!]] No one can understand that, and therefore there will be no consent from us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are the night and fog experts!]] We are, as has already been said, in favour of an informed procedure and also for an intensive discussion. We should also really give time to think here, because this Constitution was created many decades ago, and even then the Constitutional Legislator probably did not create this possibility for good reason. [[Abg. Oils: Kampl!]] Therefore, one should now consider very well whether this makes sense, and, if so, under what conditions this is possible at all. [[Abg. Oillinger: Remember Mr. Kampl!]] I should like to quote an unwarranted witness here, whom my previous speaker has referred to, namely the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. Last Sunday, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany pointed out that this should be separated. One is the statement made by the Third President, Count, which we do not share, which we also reject, and a political discussion is, of course, acceptable and should also be conducted on the basis of the statements. The other is the amendment of the Constitution and the election of a representative of this House, one of the Presidents, or of all three Presidents. Or do you want to be serious about the fact that only the Third President will be able to be elected and not the First and not the Second? So if this is a discussion about all the Presidents, and therefore the President of the Federal Republic also pleads for it, and we too agree with this opinion – I can quote – that this should not be done in the rapid shoot. And what other than a quick shot is a deadline application? We should consider this carefully, says the President-in-Office. There is a need for a calm time, for constitutional judges and for a solution that can or should apply not only to the Third President, but to a wide variety of top-notch institutions in this Republic. This means that there is a systematic discussion of the subject and not a deadline, not a time-limit and an overtime procedure. We are not available for this. What we are available for is, as has been said, a further discussion of this subject, regardless of the occasion and without time pressure. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e19097	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e19119	Madam President. High house! It seems to me that the Greens really have no more topics than Martin Graf. From this sinking, out of this medial sinking you will obviously only come out more with it. And probably you can keep the party logo with the "G", but instead of "green" you should write better "grave" party because another topic you do not actually have anymore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is almost sensational when Mr Walser says here that ÖVP and SPÖ – of course with us – have elected President Graf. It was a secret vote. I don't know, have you marked the polls or the like? [[Abg. Oils: You marked them!]] I do not know how you are monitoring secret elections here in Parliament. But that you claim that also sheds a significant light on what you understand under democracy. It is also interesting that, Mr Walser, you have not “created” the question of setting deadlines in your comments. The only thing that had to do with it was that you had a Constitutional Committee on '10. ==References== The application states that the deadline of the Constitutional Committee is until 9. It should be July. Well, that’s also some “unsharpenment. ” That's supposed to be the same with you, in your usual chaotic way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: I said: the meeting on the 10th!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Parliament and the Committee are a difference!]] Anyway. Because you also say that the "Olympia" is a framework for national elements, I have to ask you: If you feel the word “national” is so negative and bad, how do you feel about being a member of the National Council in the Republic of Austria? That's something schizophrenic for you! You have to look at this dignity for a long time, if it is such a terrible or fearsome thing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, what still stands out in your mind is – and with this we come to the subject of the debate –: In fact, it is only a third president, and not so, as the previous speakers of SPÖ and ÖVP have said, about the general constitutional – quite disputable – question: How can you select top organs of this Republic? This question is really not just about a third president – who doesn't fit you in a party political way; that's in itself what you really want: depending on your wishes. This is not just about the question: What happens to the National Council Bureau?, but it is also about the question: What happens to the People's Procuratorate? [[Abg. May. Stadler:... already protested!]] – There is no choice either. You'll have to discuss that. The ÖVP has stimulated this once a year ago. – Furthermore: What happens, for example, with regard to the election of committee chairmen, scribes, and the House's folders? – These are all the functions that exist. This question has to be discussed widely. And then, of course, you also have to clarify the question of use. We liberals have always known us to respect democracy. They did not hear a word from us when, at the 2006 National Council election, the Greens had a few more votes than the Freemans and they were the third strongest party. We could have argued about the popular lawyer, for there was an equality on and for ourselves only mandate. [[Abg. Oellinger: You did that anyway!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You tried it anyway!]] That's where we put back. That's what we said, okay, the greens can do that. But you just don't get caught up in number 5. And there you have to say, that's the last place. In a starter field from 1 to 1000 the fifth place would be something good, but from place 1 to place 5 the fifth place is simple and gripping the last place. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: You are also... at the EU election!]] That's in itself the place you belong to. When it came to the election or other actions, including what has affected our wife's Minister of the Interior, we have experienced the corresponding actions from the Balustrade, which are taking place here in your circle and in your dark circle, and in principle it is also that one will say: The voters must actually make sure that in the future you can only make more actions from the Balustrade, where you can behave here and have nothing more to do here in the house. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is important that the Constitution is not dealt with with with with in such a way as to prevent it from being implemented in such a way. How appropriate changes are made. What you are doing here is to reject Party policy tactics and therefore, on a matter of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e19286	Next, Mr Scheibner, speaking at a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e19307	Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting to note which difficulties have occurred here in the discussion both from the Greens and now from the speakers of the FPÖ, because: The FPÖ did not accept that at the time after the National Council election – and that is its good right – that the Greens have any functions. I believe that there has even been candidates, but at least a fierce debate, once before, against it. Secondly, as a former long-standing member of the FPÖ, it is interesting to me that the decision whether Austria is a nation or not should now be clearly decided with Yes – I am pleased about it – because the argument that has always been put in with the national councillors is also used here against the Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] In the past, as we know, one has already been viewed as wrong, when one has said the 26th. October is the National Celebration. But this too, Mr Kickl, should be noted very positively by me. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: What did Jörg Haider say about this?]] But now to the Greens, ladies and gentlemen, who are... [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: What did Jörg Haider say about this?]] – That is what we have very much debated. You don't have to come to me with this debate! Now let me talk to the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: A semi-intellectual debate!]] – Well, I like to argue with you about the question of what is intellectual. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Semi-intellectual!]] I'm sure I'll be on the better side when it comes to it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Walser, on your request for a deadline. Of course, this is exciting: The Greens, who always pretend to defend democracy so much, and always when, especially with you, this word is right, senior teachers appear here and explain to us how great all this is, have already admitted party-politically that you now, as – in brackets: only – aim at the fight against President Graf here. – I think there would be several goals, including for you who would be worthy of supporting them here in the House, as if to continue to prolong these debates here – this is really going to be boring! – and, interestingly, now also with deadline proposals on the Constitution. There too – I can still remember – Professor Van der Bellen has rightly always pointed out that, especially when it comes to federal constitution, and especially when it comes to regulating and reorganising top organs, it is necessary to act with special caution. Now I do not want to address in terms of content the things that have been said or not by President Graf, but that you are even now dealing with a deadline, even for political reasons – for there are no reasons or any conditions that can lead to this election, but for purely political reasons, because you think, you now need to do so for your internal policy debate, and so that you may be present in the media again, Mrs Korun – and try to create the opportunity to elect the President or the Bureau, that is interesting, especially if you do so by the Greens, which you are always so much committed to minority rights in Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun]] Now I just imagine that – that can happen to anyone, that can happen to you once again; I don't know if you're going to be the third strongest; at present, I think you're far away, but it could be the case sometime, in a further episode, too: Let's assume that we have a government with two-thirds majority – we don't want to hope for that either, but maybe we have it again. And then your President does something that doesn't fit this two-thirds majority. I would remind you that we are now considering in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to give the Chair of Investigation Committee one of the three presidents. And then this President, perhaps from your group, as chairman of a committee of inquiry, does not do anything that is absolutely contrary to this two-thirds majority. And suddenly you find some reason – hurra! – and there is only a normal request, a normal proposal for a Rules of Procedure and its adoption with a majority of two-thirds – and the President is gone, the Chairperson of the Committee of Inquiry is gone, perhaps a delay of this committee or at all at its end. That's what you can do with this ad hoc application now in a few days. I say: make it possible. I say to you that this question is a matter: To what extent can top organs and highest representatives be selected or not? For example, it is a problem that the President of the Court of Auditors can currently be elected by a simple majority. This could also be the case: There is a President of the Court of Auditors who is too critical, so leave with him by a simple majority! That's a problem. This should be discussed and possibly modified. It could also be that some of the top organs are to be equipped with a choice option here. However, it is important to take particular care of the Members and the functions of this House. I do not think, honestly, that a President who is elected here can be elected by any majority. There is criminal law, which can also result in a loss of mandate. In addition, as far as political reasons are concerned, I would be very careful. But it is quite clear why the Greens are now holding a debate like this: because otherwise they do not have any issues with which they can score in the public.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e19433	Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser with a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e19454	Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP is undisputed an antifascist party that has helped to restore this republic from the ruins of National Socialism. [[Abg. Rädler: Unlike the Greens!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – It doesn't go out historically, you're right. It is also undisputed that there is no affinity in the field of right-wing extremism, that there is a very, very clear limit. I still ask myself the question today – and this also refers to the SPÖ, but also to the ÖVP – how the mistake could happen to elect Count as the Third National Council President. On the one hand, it may have been a mistake that you underestimated the person – well, we warned at the time, but you don't always listen to the opposition parties – or, and that's the second variant, you wanted to keep your coalition options open at the time, and there was a choice of Counts opportun. Now it is undisputed, at ÖVP and SPÖ, that this choice was a mistake. There are withdrawal orders from the ÖVP to Count, even from ÖVP-BundesPartei Obmann Pröll – not anyone else – and there are them from the SPÖ. But it is still hard to make the choice because Mr Graf does not want to take his office out of office. Let us take a closer look at the arguments of the ÖVP so that we can perhaps approach the motives a little: Minority protection. - So, with leave: Protection of minority rights in the High House is not the main theme of the ÖVP. If you grant us the Committee of Inquiry as a minority right, you may also be credible in this matter. Until then, I won't take this number from you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: This is not an argument!]] The second point: Ladies and gentlemen, you are exploring: The nomination of the Third National Council President is not a minority right, but it is merely Usance that the third strongest party makes a proposal and chooses the majority. That is, you pretend to protect a right that does not exist through the protection of minorities. [[Abg. Head: That's what Glavischnig said, not us!]] Third point: If you continue to think about this in this consequence, it was said that a person – let's go away from Count – who is elected but unable or unworthy to exercise this office cannot be elected. That can't be in your mind! Historical comparisons to 1933 are constantly being drawn. These comparisons are, with engagement, bad and wrong. In 1933, three national council presidents resigned – and were not elected. You have to take a closer look at the story: At that time, Germans and social democrats tried to revive Parliament, and it was the Dolfuss police who denied the Member's access to Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It was the big German who wanted to call it up!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's it!]] This is historical fact – and this has nothing to do with the situation we are discussing here today, ladies and gentlemen. That is why this argument cannot help at all in today's debate on the Rules of Procedure. Now I ask myself the question: Why does ÖVP, under all these premises, not want to elect Count? – There are several explanations. [[Abg. Grosz: Because she learned from the mistakes...!]] One thing is: The ÖVP has an error management that works like this: The best way to cover it and not to talk about it and not to promote these issues, but to see that they come from the media agenda! – But that contradicts, please, your antifascist claim. Next point: They want to keep the coalition option FPÖ open. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] We could get a little closer to this. The third point is: I have a little suspicion that the ÖVP is also playing with the FPÖ and is very glad that the FPÖ is extortionable on some political issue. We will still be discussing corruption law today, where the FPÖ behaves remarkably well in relation to the government's proposals, and I am not sure whether exactly this calculation of the ÖVP is behind it, to have this election in the drawer again and again as a threat potential, and then, when it comes to delicate political issues, to get that out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] Why is it necessary to set deadlines, and why do all the comparisons that have been made here seem to have been made? – Mr Donnerbauer, the EIA comparison is a very poor comparison. [[Abg. May. Kogler: ( towards ÖVP)...! That's how you work!]] The accusation in the EIA Act is that it was discussed in the wrong committee. Our request was discussed in detail in the relevant Constitutional Committee. It is only obvious that the way is chosen to move this to the long-term bank by delaying it and not wanting to make a decision. Next point, the example of the possibility of choice for important parliamentary bodies. The President of the Court of Auditors, one of the most important inspectors of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, who draws up delicate reports – that is my final sentence – can be selected here with half of the Members' votes. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] All right, ladies and gentlemen! – Step closer to our deadline request, create clear conditions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e19624	The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Dr. Walser, colleagues, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 644/A concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG) and a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. 1975) a period of time until 9. ==References== I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give him the approval to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[Call the FPÖ – since not all Green MEPs have risen from the seats –: Not even all Greens are there!]] [[15:35:16]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e19664	I will resume the negotiations on points 4 and 5 of the agenda. Mr Haberzettl spoke. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e19689	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! We will return to the matter of the last item on the agenda: Amendment of the Income Tax Act. You know that since 1. In January 2009, as a result of the tax reform, there is the possibility of tax deductibility of child care expenses and that one of the requirements for deductibility is that the child should not be older than ten years in the calendar year in question. The age limit is now increased for disabled children to 16 years. This creates an increased write-off possibility for children up to the end of the 16th century. Year of life when they are disabled. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, there are also changes to the Fees Act. To this end, there are two essential points that have already been mentioned in the discussion, namely the exhibition of passports for children – here the fee is reduced from €69.90 to €30 – and the exhibition of identity cards for persons who are also under 16 years old – for this the fee is reduced from €56.70 to €26.30. The Novelle Assessment Act takes account of technical development. It is now possible to carry out electronically the transfer of data on changes in property ownership to the financial authority. This would also allow for a faster unity assessment for the future. Finally, I should like to make a comment on the issue of morality in SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's good!]] In this House, 1 per cent of Members are pre-punished. If I look into the SPÖ ranks, I find none of these Members there who have a pre-punity. And I think that's also a matter of morality.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e19747	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs wish to conclude? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Income Tax Act and the Fees Act, in 286 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Mr Windholz. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall vote separately on Rule 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those members of the House who give this part their consent to a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Rule 2 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for this part, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on amendments to the legal provisions of the Foundation, thus excluding political parties from being able to use the legal form of the Foundation. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the shop of the MPs and bear the name of the Member as well as the name ‘Yes’, these are the grey polls, or ‘No’, those are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on amendments to the legal provisions of the foundation, to vote in favour of the 'No' vote. I now ask Mrs Hagenhofer, the rapporteur, to begin the call for name. Before she starts this name call, I may recall: We have always generated great pressure in the last few minutes' votes, because it should go quickly, which has led to irritations in the last naturist vote. [[Abg. Head: This has had nothing to do with 'fast', Madam President.]] [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: This has had nothing to do with speed!]] [[Abg. Grosz: With counting!]] [[Further calls to MEPs from SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] No, that was the one thing, Mr Grosz. There was a second matter. I am not talking about the procedure of Mr Vilimsky now, but I would like to say that we are counting on how many votes here. If then, at the same time, three cast in their polls, we can't count that accordingly. That is, I really ask you to put the polls in the urn individually and consecutively, so that the count result and the vote result match. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Maybe buy a modern voting system once! That would be a possibility!]] Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e19861	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the scribe and the registrar. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e19908	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: 173; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 70, ‘No’ votes: 103. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hagen, Haider, Haimbuchner, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek, Kurzmann; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer; Oils; Pirklhuber; Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Weinzinger Lutz, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Souschill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, schitzenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schussel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Stummful; Tamandl; Wenninger Hannes, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20093	We now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on binding standardisation for the whole "funding law" that the pursuit of political purposes does not constitute a promotion of non-profit purposes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request does not find a majority, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the review of the public utility of foundations and the review of those with possible – what does that mean?, 'Fallscheinordnungen', is it?; this is such an illegible writing – misorders related tax revenue. [[Abg. Head: Misorders!]] [[Call the BZÖ:False orders!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haider, ladies and gentlemen, on the introduction of the Vorarlberger care model. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Assessment Act, including title and receipt in 287 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[15:56:16]] 6. Point report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 673/A by Mr Mag. Heribert Donnerbauer, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues concerning a federal law, which amends the General Civil Code, the Arbitration Regulations, the Arbitration Regulations, the Outstanding Law, the Marriage Law, the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure 1957, the Law on Fees, the Law on Jurisdiction of Laws, the Concurrence Order, the Notarial Act, the Statutory Law, the Privatisation Act, the Criminal Code, the Ordinance of Criminal Procedure 1975, the Law on Punishment 1972, the Maintenance Advancement Act 1985, the Copyright Act and the Civil Procedure (Law 2009 – Famwreg 2009) (275 d.b.) 7. Point Report and request of the Justice Committee on the draft federal law amending the Labour and Social Courts Act and the Law on Court Fees (276 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20181	We now come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Haubner is speaking with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20211	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The family law amendment law here aims to give answers to social reality – answers that are long necessary if we look at the number of divorces, the number of living communities, the number of single parents. I say the answer is unfortunately incomplete to God. It's what's available. It's a flick work. We have turned on a few screws and we have now brought this law to Parliament without consideration. I think it's a tiny step in the right direction. Some things I would like to mention critically in connection with the children here. Easy access to the maintenance advance would be the right way. So far, the situation has been more than unsatisfying, but also with the present template, with the present solution that remains so. Although the proceedings have been shortened a little by not having to wait until an execution judgment, there is a court judgment, but there is already the claim that when the procedure begins, one has not closed the gaps for the children who have no right to maintenance in principle, because the dependant – mostly the father – is sick, is unemployed or lives abroad. I think that in the case of a good law, in the event of a good change, there would have been a need for action here, including in the sense of combating poverty. My colleague, Mr Scheibner, as a follow-up speaker, will therefore put forward a motion for a resolution to close the gaps that exist and to change the maintenance advance to a child's maintenance security in general. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The second thing I would like to say critically: In principle, it is good to equip patchwork families with more rights and duties, but this must not happen without equalizing with the physical parents. Mostly it is the fathers who are pitied here. If we improve the rights and obligations of the stepparents, we must also improve those of the biological parents. We all know that when parents divorce, this is a very, very heavy burden for children. Therefore, everything must be done to ensure that the children who have a right to mother and father continue to have the father as a reference person. Therefore, we believe that the care scheme should be revised in the direction of ensuring equal contact between children and both parents, both with the parent and with the parent’s body. I know from experience that it can also be a new opportunity for children if they are embedded in a new partnership with their mother or father and have a new family life there, but the physical father must not be reduced to pay only and otherwise not have any rights. We say yes to this amendment, but in agreement with the general care. We from the BZÖ have expected you, Mrs. Federal Minister, to take a big step towards reform in this Family Law amendment package, which has already employed a number of ministers, but what we have here is just a step towards reform. That's why I mean, we're only in the beginning. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20265	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20286	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a brief look at the comments made by Mr Haubner. Mrs Haubner, it is not true that there was no review. – The first entry took place under Federal Minister Karin Gastinger, BZÖ, and the second contribution, with review, took place under Federal Minister Berger, SPÖ. The Members have now taken the initiative in the form of an initiative proposal. I think we worked well. I would like to congratulate Mr Bandion-Ortner on what is now on the table. This is not a flick work, it is well prepared in content, it is adapted to the situations of our families. I would also like to thank the officials of the Ministry and their cabinet who have prepared this well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Family Law Amendment Act 2009 meets the requirements of the well-known modern family. The most important thing in the family is and remains the taking responsibility for each other, and also in terms of that, the law regulates some new things. The patchwork families were also taken into account. The marital duty of spouses is explicitly extended to ensure that each spouse is adequately assisted by the other in the exercise of care towards his children. In addition, it is also about representation in matters of care of daily life. What I would particularly like to stress is the fact that boots or patchwork parents can also be an enrichment for the children – as another reference person – and in most cases that is the case. On the other hand – and this has once again been demonstrated by numerous requests and emails during the preparation period for this law – the right of care and visitation concerning the former partners is a very sensitive and often subject matter with problems. We will continue to work on this and are aware that there is still a need for discussion here. A significant step towards improving the situation of those concerned – children or single parents – has been taken in the maintenance advance. I mean, there was a good regulation. The outcome of the execution procedure against the debtors no longer has to be expected. In the future, advance is to be made as soon as an enforceable execution order for the statutory maintenance claim exists and a reasonable execution application has been lodged with the court. Also a very sensitive area is adoption, also foreign adoption. I think it is particularly important here both to regulate the optional recognition procedure for foreign adoptions and to regulate the mandatory collection of criminal registry information before adoption decisions. I would also like to say: This is an important step where work continues with both ministries, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Family Affairs In order to bring about even greater legal certainty, this must be done in particular with regard to foreign adoption. Ladies and gentlemen, the present changes in family law show once again: Let's look! Let's listen! We find responsible solutions to the problems and needs of our families in Austria! Unfortunately, the four minutes of speaking time are far too short to be able to express the content clearly and sufficiently as the first speaker of the ÖVP, because this change is packed so much in content that means good for the situation of the families in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20366	Mr Scheibner has now come to speak. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20387	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Steibl, I am very sorry that you only received three or four minutes of speech. [[Abg. Steibl: We're a little more!]] As you have to point out in your group the importance of these issues, you may be given more time to speak. [[Abg. Steibl: We are more Members!]] It is already strange that the alleged family party does not make more than four minutes, as you complain, available to the first speaker for this important topic. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is not the way you can see it, Mrs Steibl, when you say that it is nice that there is now this initiative proposal, where there is no review, but that there has been the review already in 2003. I do not think that this proposal for an initiative is identical to the intentions of Mrs Gastinger and that we can say that it is the same as cover. It would be important for a fundamental reform of family law to be debated in detail that the draft should be properly reviewed and that we also discuss it in a comprehensive manner in the Committee, unless you believe that this is just a small, marginal change. This suspicion arises, of course. Thankfully, in the Committee, the Federal Minister said in real openness: Well, you could have done more, but you couldn't have agreed on more! But it would be necessary for us to take more account of the new circumstances – and they are not so new at all – in people's living together than you did in this novel. After all, the ABGB soon celebrates its 200-year anniversary, and the legal core of various provisions in marital law dates back to that time or from 1938, i.e. from the time after the marriage. I think we agree that we no longer want to live by the provisions of this time and that people's living together no longer wants to conform to these provisions. How people organize how they want to shape their lives should be freed. The legislator should intervene only where the interests of protection are concerned, especially those of children. It is still not regulated, Mrs Federal Minister – we have already discussed this in committee – that we treat children equally in terms of services and in terms of their rights, regardless of whether they come from a former, whether they come from a patchwork family or whether they come from a second. Children are currently being treated differently. And that's in the 21st century. ==References====External links== [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There are a number of other points where there is an urgent need to modernise the legal systems. In Germany it has been done in a wide range of areas. We would like us not to wait, as you have said, until the 200-year anniversary, until 2011, but to have a comprehensive reform of the marriage and divorce right and the maintenance right. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Federal Minister, if you take this into consideration, then you have our support. But in view of the current change in the law, you still have some homework for modern family law to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20478	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20554	Mrs Binder-Maier has now come up with a four-minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20576	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner, I am right to say that it would be appropriate for adults to behave like adults, especially if they are fathers and mothers, and to have in mind the well-being of their children. We can still create so many legal conditions: If parents are not aware of their role, there are many problems, Mr. Strache, especially in the common care. [[Abg. Street:... the common care!]] [[Abg. Strache: This works very well in Germany! That even initiated red-green!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Family law is a very sensitive area, an important legal area, it reflects above all values that have been and will be held by law. It would have allowed me to look back into the story: As a social democracy, we have launched many family-law reforms since 1970, especially as regards the legal equality of women in the family. The injustice that the man was the head of the family was also eliminated at that time. Since then we have changed conditions: Life forms, life stories, habits and realities of people have changed and changed over and over again. And to do so, the family legislation must respond and take account of it and create a framework for it. I think that's important. I am particularly concerned with creating a modern family law, which is the condition of the 21st century. ==References== What's this about? – A few figures and facts: In Austria we have 1,704 000 couples, 63 per cent of whom are first married couples, 309 000 living communities, 681,000 couples with children under 18 years of age, 119 100 living communities with children under 18 years of age, 151,000 single parents with children and 76 000 patchwork families with children under 18 years of age. The main points of this draft law have already been explained: Advice, improvement of maintenance advance, extension of marital assistance to the care of stepchildren, representation of spouses in care by the stepparent part, right of minor children to assistance in family associations. I mean, from a women's point of view, four points are particularly remarkable. First: Increased indication of the possibility of advice in the event of divorce. Secondly, Advance to the maintenance advance. This is about supporting single-parents, which I think we need to work on, because there are still some gaps to be closed. I am thinking, above all, of the Swedish model, in which, if maintenance is not done, the State naturally comes in and the State recovers the funds from the maintenance officer. Thirdly, More safety in patchwork families. Fourth: More legal certainty for foreign adoptions. In addition, Mr Hakl's Committee on Justice proposed that the legal situation in communities should also be changed in connection with their own children. In this regard, there is a commitment from you, Mrs. Minister, that it is being worked on. It is important that the open issues continue to be debated, that the unfinished problem areas be discussed. We will continue to work on modern, fair and modern family law and develop it further.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20626	Mr Fichtenbauer has now come to speak. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20649	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would first like to clarify the legal-historical errors that stand in the room. The family law in force does not come from 1811. I recall the Broda’s Family Law Reform, which was very controversial at the time. That was in 1975. Of course, it is common to note that a static state is never reached, but it always goes a little further. It is important that a further step has been taken in an appropriate form. That is why we will also approve this amendment, as we have already done in the Committee. Personally, I would like to point out that I am pleased that the § 543 ABGB is finally lifted, which has been a particularly discriminatory section for victims. That is to say, those who had been brought to justice among themselves by adultery, who were incest, were excluded from the right of inheritance. I have already called for the abolition of this paragraph several times in 1985 and also after that, but I have not achieved anything. – As you can see, you have to grow old enough, then at some point there is the desired result, whereby I am, of course, out of the way, the causality is due to me today, but you can say it. It is also true that a step has been taken into the possibility of making advance provision regarding the division of marital utility and marital savings in the case of divorce before the same, which was previously forbidden or ineffective. This is a relief, because in principle, but especially in certain sections of the population, there is a need for asset protection, especially as regards the marriage. It is very common that the marriage comes from one of the families, and in the case of marriage, the parties know that it can fall to the other part. This often prevents marriage, because that is not desirable. In this direction, there is now an important change in this template. The rest have already said my previous speakers. The fact that there has been no review is, if you want to, a beauty mistake, but that does not prevent you from doing the right thing in favor of the population. Another point: We believe that the mandatory common care of parents should be introduced, except for the case that a court decision would achieve that part of the care obligation would not be met or that it would be harmful to the child's well-being. Furthermore, what Mr Hakl said in the Committee should be taken into account, namely that non-married parents should not be in a wrong position as regards the authorisation of patchwork families or parents. Otherwise, time is too short to talk about the change of law in general. Despite everything, we will agree to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20704	Now comes Mr Mag. Steinhauser. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20726	Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the Family Law Amendment Act 2009 goes in the right direction. But I must already allow myself to note that a large throw has been announced and now a few larger gaps in reform have been left behind. In some areas, the impression of Austrian family law has long been that we have completely decoupled ourselves from international legal development and have a negative single-generation feature. Keywords: Divorce law. This is where reforms are urgently needed. The maintenance right is also not satisfactorily solved. Further: Care and right of visit. – The problems are obvious. There is also a need for urgent action in the field of name law, Mrs Federal Minister. In particular, two points are addressed by the law: These are the communities of life and the right of maintenance. And exactly there you can see what unfortunately was not regulated in this law. The situation is relatively clear: The divorce rate in Austria is 50 percent. We also have a decline in marriages. And we have 300,000 communities, but the law does not know the institution of the community practically, with few exceptions, at all. One refers exclusively to marriage and thus ignores reality. It seems to me that there would be an ideological concept here and one would pass by the reality of people's life completely. What do we need? – Mrs Federal Minister, we first needed a definition of the community of life in the ABGB. As Secondly, we need a few areas in which we also regulate rights and obligations in the field of living communities. I'm not talking about equality, because I know, and that's also indicated that if someone doesn't marry, he doesn't want to solve the full rights of a marriage. That's exactly where you need to differentiate! I would therefore like to give you an example: Where one could regulate something, it would be that in communities of life co-ownership arises on common household and leisure items. This is necessary to protect the economically weaker part. What happens many times now? – One buys the TV, the video recorder, the DVD player, whatever, the other contests the cost of living. When the relationship separates, one takes the TV player, the DVD player and the video camera, and the person – mostly the woman – who fought the cost of living does not get anything. I don't think that's a target and not an indication. Second point, maintenance right: Of course, not all that can be solved here is within your competence, which you must say fairly, but the fact is that the risk of poverty among single parents is extremely high. Around 30 percent of all single parents live on or below the poverty line, and the problems are obvious: The maintenance payments are usually too low, i.e. the people do not deal with the maintenance or with the maintenance advance. Secondly, procedures take too long: We have three authorities involved – we have the youth offices, we have the district courts and we have the Supreme Courts – and I wonder why the administrative jungle will not be dissolved in the sense of administrative simplification and we will, for example, settle the maintenance procedure or the maintenance advance procedure at the Youth Office? – I think that would help everyone. Third point: There are gaps in maintenance law, which are extremely unsatisfactory. An example: If the maintenance officer has no chance of repaying the advance, the child simply gets nothing. That is, if, for some reason, he is unable to repay his debt to the Republic on the basis of the maintenance advance, the Authority's assessment is: Okay, there's nothing, the kid's not getting anything! - I can't do that! I think it is not possible to make the maintenance and maintenance advance dependent on the transferability of the maintenance to the parent subject to maintenance. This is cynical and this contradicts the intention of the law. My basic concern, Mrs Bundesminister, is: This can be maximum – maximum! – be the first step towards a family law reform. We still have four years ahead of us, according to the government, and I believe that we still need major reforms in all these listed areas – in divorce law, in name, in maintenance law – in order to finally make this country Europe mature again in these matters and legal areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20805	It now has Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20826	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the crowds! Family law is not static, but something moving; it has to adapt to social realities. The figures have already been mentioned by Mrs Binder-Maier today; I would like to repeat two: There are a total of over 300,000 living communities and there are almost 76 000 patchwork families, i.e. families with children from earlier relationships. This very reality is now in line with the reform: Patchwork families are, as it were, taken up by the legislator, they are accepted. Married patchwork parents are granted certain rights and obligations required in everyday life. In recent weeks it has been repeatedly deposited that it could not be that the partner, the physical father who lives with the mother in society, has less rights than the married stepfather. – Yes, this criticism sounds plausible at first glance, only you have to look at it more carefully now. On the one hand, it is true that you can of course apply for common care for the common physical child – and then you have much more rights than the married stepfather or the married stepmother –, on the other hand, you have to ask yourself why you do not actually marry if you want to live together. – It is because people just want to be unbound, especially do not want to have obligations, but therefore, of course, they do not have any rights. You can really discuss how the community continues – finding a definition in the ABGB et cetera – but it's not a simple thing, and I think you have to find out what people really want. I happened to read a saying on a postcard yesterday, which fits very well with this subject. It said: Marry or not, you'll regret both. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Head.]] – In this way, one will see what the future will bring. We'll take a closer look at that. In any case, the reform has also given more value to the communities of life, because now lifemates have the opportunity, for example, to turn away from the statement in a civil process, just as patchwork children now have this opportunity. What else has changed? – It was also mentioned: There have been changes in the right of adoption. But I don't want to repeat everything that has already been said. The modernisation of the marriage pacts is also very important: Until now, it has only been possible to make advance agreements as regards marital savings, now one can also agree on marital utility and also on the marriage home, and yet it is ensured that the weaker part does not come under the wheels. The court may, in certain circumstances – in an unacceptable situation – resolve this marriage pact. In addition, the ABGB is a little disintegrated – this is the first step, I would say: The morning gift, the resistance, the widow's content are things that have now been removed from the law because they were simply dead right. – Of course, it does not prevent you from giving your spouse a gift in the morning if you want to marry! The advice in the course of divorce is also an essential point: It should now, if someone has not yet been advised, be given the opportunity to use advice. The Court of First Instance must therefore postpone the proceedings for that purpose. These were the main cornerstones of the Family Law Package. It was certainly a first step and I admit that there is still some need. As far as the maintenance advance is concerned, Mr Scheibner, I think that: It is always required to grant maintenance advance even if there is no maintenance claim. I can't do that! This is a question of minimum security, basic security, and that is what the countries are responsible for. Overall, however, this package, I believe, is a very important step in the right direction. I would also like to thank my predecessors, Karin Gastinger and Maria Berger, who, together with my very dedicated employees in the Federal Ministry of Justice, have done a lot of preparatory work. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20900	Mrs Franz is now speaking. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e20921	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If you look at our obsolete General Civil Code, dating from 1811 – we have already heard of it – you see, when the husband was still the absolute head of the family, the wife was subordinated to her husband, and he was obliged to assist him, determined about the common residence, the profession of his married children and the family name, then you can see the great social change. [[Abg. Scheibner:... 200 years... law!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier.]] However, the changes in the law were only very hesitant. Only after the end of World War II did the efforts aimed at changing family law succeed. Ideas that have not been considered to be unrealized visions for the future for too long now are being discussed and realized openly today. The efforts of our legislation to compensate for disadvantages both in public and private law are now bearing fruit. Discrimination of women, the immoral children, parents and children from disturbed family relationships has gradually been eliminated or mitigated. It took a long time to finally realize gender equality in family law. The fact that the Austrian right to people's new situations of life has to be taken more and more into account is out of question. Of course, it would be nice if both parents, after a divorce, would take on common custody and thus responsibility for their children, but reality speaks another language: Too often, partner conflicts are carried out on the back of the children. Therefore, the extension of marital assistance to care for stepchildren is useful, as is the representation of the spouse in the matters of care of daily life. The fact that minors have a right to assistance in family associations is a positive innovation for the benefit of children. The reform also includes the improvement of the maintenance advance: The child care should be more efficient and more quickly enforceable, it is precisely the single parents and their children, who are most vulnerable to poverty in Austria. I believe that the lengthy negotiations have paid off, finally taking into account social realities. It is also crucial to me that the children's well-being has been put at the heart of the reflections on the legal changes. There has been an editorial error, which is why I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21003	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21027	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is high time that the legal system is adapted to people's real life in family law, and this is largely the case in this Family Law Amendment Act. Very welcome – and this has already been mentioned by my previous speakers – is the consideration of modern forms of life, such as the patchwork families, which – and this is a progress towards existing family law – are legally improved by extending the marital duty of spouses. Thus, those who marry someone who has a minor child will also be obliged to support his mate in his parental duties in the future. There are still no legal rights and obligations in communities of life, but there is also a duty of assistance in the Family Law Amendment Act to protect the child. That is, one cannot look away in the future, and the partner is obliged to look also at the child’s welfare. The last point, which unfortunately is not implemented but which, from my point of view, would be an important step – the woman minister also said that there is still discussion and consideration here – concerns the communities in which the physical father lives together with his children in the community of life, which are at least more than 130,000 families. There would be at least a need for equality with the stepfather in relation to the possibility of representation in matters of concern for daily life. Many important changes to this law have already been mentioned by my colleague Gabi Binder and also by colleague Ridi Steibl, but what is missing is an urgently necessary reform of the life partner law of same sex communities. The Rainbow Paradise last weekend in Vienna showed – there were more than 100,000 participants – that most of those present have been very active in the rights of same-sex couples. And we will, the Social Democracy will work to ensure that, in the draft, which we hope will soon be available – the Minister has also commented on this and said that it is time and that there is a feasible solution here – there are also registered partnerships, standing partnerships, which are to be a comprehensive legal guarantee of equal sex couples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21067	Now comes Mr Mag. Stefan speaking. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21089	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Fichtenbauer has already found that we are going to accept and agree to the law in this way, because the trend is right, but I still want to look at a point that has already been raised. While the participation of the stepfather in the education of the stepchild is a very useful thing, it is also possible to represent the stepfather in matters of care of daily life. But this leads us to have a curious situation because now the physical father, who lives with the mother even in the same household, has lower rights than the stepfather. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true! He can also a common care...!]] – The fact is that one can of course make a regulation, but from the law, one is currently in a weaker position as a physical father living together in the household. We are not even talking about a patchwork family, but we are talking about a family in which Father, Mother and Child live together, but in which the Father, if he does not have the same rights as the stepfather because of an agreement, does not have the same care as the stepfather. To argue that there must be a difference between married and not married is not a goal in this regard, for this is about the relationship between children and parents and not about those of parents. We believe, as many others do, that there are very differences and that there must be freedom of choice, whether I marry or not, and therefore there must be differences. But this has nothing to do with the relationship between parents and children, because the child does not choose whether the parents are married, but is then very well affected by differentiation. As has already been pointed out, a proposal has been put forward in Mr Hakl's committee to make an amendment here, and we are taking this up, and I am submitting a request to that effect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Of course, this is only the first step; the second step should be the mandatory common care. In this regard, Mrs Kitzmüller will make another request, and that would be the real and true step in the right direction. We hope that these children's rights on both parents will find a majority in this house.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21157	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21231	Now comes Mrs Mag. Musiol speaking. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21252	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear visitors to the ranks! It always seems quite strange when representatives of the government parties produce and celebrate here, what they do not do for Austria's families. The ÖVP, by saying: We are the family party, and we have now, once again, postponed an important regulation for the situation of our families! and the SPÖ, by making itself here as the party that stands for social concerns and celebrating this here. The fact is that this family law package is, of course, a first important step – that my colleague Steinhauser has already done – but it is also the fact that precisely in these two matters, namely the situation of the families on the one hand and the social equipment, if one wants to call it, on the social conditions for the families on the other, is not sufficiently cared for, even through this family package. Mrs Bandion-Ortner, if you say that family law is not something static, but something moving, then I think of it as a tricycle. This is the pace in which you drive family law. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Can't fall by! Very stable!]] On the other hand, the development of families is similar to the pace of a fast racing wheel, a downhill racing wheel – we want to stay ecologically friendly. [[Abg. Scheibner: But it can be...!]] You may really be taking steps here, but these steps are far too slow. Considering, for example, that there has been a system for patchwork families in Switzerland since 1976, you can calculate – if you are powerful in mathematics – how many years we have been after. I want to take out two areas here, first of all the patchwork families. It has already been said how many families have been affected. It has also been mentioned that the scheme submitted should apply only to married persons. We do not think this is appropriate for the life situation of the Austrian families, for you know, just as we do, that there are numerous patchwork families in which no further marriage has been concluded, but the spouses have agreed to live in a community. For example, we know that 24 percent of the communities are patchwork communities, and 6 percent of the spouses are close to the patchwork partners. This alone shows that there is a large group living in other situations that have not decided to marry a second time, and which is not covered by your regulations at all. That is why we are also making a request to which I will come later. It is also not to be seen that children are made a difference whether their parents are married or not, whether the husband or the woman with whom they live in the household may sign the school apologies, whether this person may accompany them to the doctor to decide whether they can take medication. A second point is the maintenance. Mr Steinhauser has already pointed out the procedural problems. What we blame for this maintenance right as a whole and also for this innovation is that this does not bring about a change in the system as a whole, but only removes small problems. We still have gaps in serious areas. We know that one third of the single-parents are vulnerable to poverty. If you cannot imagine this number, which we and other political groups have repeatedly mentioned, even what that means, then I can only give you the book of the University of Vienna, which was published a few months ago, “Children’s Poverty in Austria”. It describes exactly what child poverty means. For example, child poverty means not being able to invite other children home because, first of all, there is either no room for them or, secondly, there is no opportunity to provide these children with jause, drinks or other things. Child poverty means – and this is well known – not being able to ride on various school trips and ski courses. Here we strongly recommend that something be done speedily, and we therefore make a second request, namely the resolution on child care security: ‘The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth, is invited to submit to the National Council a draft government that ensures that each child of separate living parents is entitled to state maintenance security at the level of the rule requirement, provided that his maintenance claim against the second parent does not exist.” And here is the already announced resolution on patchwork families: ‘The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Justice, is invited to submit to the National Council a draft government to ensure that representation in matters of care of daily life will also be possible for unmarried persons. In addition, it should be possible for all participants in a patchwork family (female parents, stepparent parts married/unmarried, minor children) to agree on how rights and obligations in relation to the child are shared. Such agreements should be approved by court authorities.”” Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, take yourself seriously: Create a family right for all families – regardless of whether patchwork, rainbow, solitary hende! Create You have a right for all families – whether socially weak or capable! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21315	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are properly tabled and are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21465	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21486	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We do not hesitate, Mrs Musiol, but we are adapting in good time. I believe that this family law amendment law in particular brings many innovations, innovations that are simply necessary because of the changed family and partnership relations, whether this is the extension of the duty of assistance in the case of care for the stepchildren, whether it is the representation of the spouse in obligations of care, the elimination of discrimination against partners or the modernisation of the property right. All these are innovations that are quite simply necessary. However, I would like to stress two areas, areas in which I am always in my capacity as mayor, areas in which most of the potentially weaker part comes to the handcushion. This is, on the one hand, the maintenance advance area, in which it is quite simply the case that this advance is not It's working. It was and is tiring for women – mostly women – when they have to fight for their right here. That is why I really hope that this new regulation will close a gap, if perhaps not all the gaps. A second area, which also repeatedly causes problems in the community/society, is when divorce occurs. Here it is often so that a part simply wants to get out of a painful relationship and often fails to do much, almost everything to end this relationship. There is, as I think, an important point of reference to the possibility of consultation. But I also believe that it would be useful to get a mandatory consultation, because it simply should be assured that there is not any part of the wheels. While in these two cases, in my opinion, women are more likely to benefit from these regulations, men in another area often have a problem, in the way that, after a failed relationship, they can no longer see their children or can hardly build a reasonable relationship with them. I believe that the rule that we have made with regard to the halving of court fees is also a good and important step and that the protest tower of the fathers concerned has rightly been successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to point out that I believe that the child's well-being must always be at the heart of family law, and that is why a constant adjustment of this right is necessary. In any case, I think that we are making a very good and yet far-reaching decision here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21535	Mr Köfer has now come up with a request for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21556	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The picture of the family has changed considerably – we have heard this many times today. In addition to the classic family form, there are patchwork families and the alone parents, of which, of course, the majority are women. Impressive figures also provide evidence of the current family landscape in our country. Mr Binder-Maier has already mentioned more than 680 000 couples with children under the age of 18. However, there are also 120,000 living communities and 150,000 single parents with their children, who are also 18 years old. ==References====External links== The 76 000 patchwork families in Austria with minor children complete these statistics. Mrs. Musiol, no one from the government parties can be celebrated or “officially” here, but the new Family Law Amendment Act is an absolutely necessary step in the right direction. He takes account of these new family developments and takes into account the various forms of today's family constellations, which exist now. A substitute for these new patchwork fathers and mothers with their families has come to a long-standing appreciation. It is very gratifying when fathers and mothers are no longer indifferent to the child or the children of the partner and are no longer considered to be strangers in the longer term, at least in legal terms. In the interests of children and the speeding up of the granting of maintenance advances, it is appropriate to welcome the need for shorter procedures. From my speech, also as mayor, I know the problem of very young mothers, if they have to come to terms with the very young fathers, who are very often still in training, for months. I am right for Mrs Colleague to say that fathers are not allowed to be downgraded to a temporary payment machine without rights. It is therefore also gratifying that the right to visit is no longer as dramatic as originally planned. In the future, although € 116 will still have to be paid for an application for the right of visit instead of € 232, this reduction means a clear relief for the respective parents. It would be desirable, in particular, that these court fees in connection with the right to visit children should not be grounded in stone and, if perhaps the budgetary situation allowed sometime after this crisis, they could be reversed for the benefit of the children who have the right to both parents.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21601	Now comes Mrs Mag. Hakl speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21623	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I believe that today we are taking a very important step towards adapting family law to the living conditions of the people of Austria. It is true that even though the cohabitation of families, the number of patchwork families and many others have changed rapidly, we can also read from the last youth study that one is still unchanged: The greatest desire of our children and young people, with 89 percent in the first place, is to have a happy relationship and a happy, stable family at some point in life. That is, there is the desire and vision of the real realities of life far away. This is what makes family law so sensitive, because all these visions and longings with the reality of life, with which everyday life is often so badly conformed and the injuries are all the more deep. That is why it must be our top task to always protect the weakest first in family law. The weakest, however, are not the adults who can once err and hurt themselves, but these are primarily the children. For this reason, there is for me a small drops of wormwood in this novel, and this concerns the custody rights of the stepfather towards the stepchildren. I deliberately say “father” because it will usually be about the stepfather. Of course, it is desirable for a new partner to pick up the child of the partner from the kindergarten or bring it to the doctor if there is a knee on it. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] But that the physical father, who lives in an upright association with the mother of the child, does not have the same custody rights, I must say quite honestly, I cannot understand. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I believe that this point has very little to do with how the relationships of two living partners or of living communities or marriages are designed, in so far as the relationship between two adult people – I am not the opinion of the BZÖ or the Greens that we should attach to the community of life equal legal claims or maintenance claims – but it is all about the right of the child to one's own father – it is usually the father – to the care of one's own father. [[Abg. Steibl:... the common care...!]] I am pleased that this discussion has led us to focus on the rights of every child, especially on the father in summer and autumn. This point will hopefully be corrected within the framework of a larger package. I would also like to thank the Federal Minister, the Section and all those involved for having an open debate on whether we may continue with regard to the legal enforcement of rights to visit women. In this sense, I will decide on this package, as it is available in the Committee, and I am looking forward to further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21677	Mrs Kitzmüller has now come up with a request for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21699	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have already tabled an amendment to the budget accompanying law which should have prevented the right to visit. But in difficult times, as we know, it is only step by step. The care process is now charged with fees of €220, this is reduced to € 116, and this is already a real step in the direction we have stimulated on the way. We hope that this injustice may be reduced again next time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Also to mention is the new composition, the family composition, which can definitely also be a chance. The fact that the stepfather should now have more rights and more rights – which my previous speakers have already mentioned – is not to be seen in this case, because the physical father must stay in connection with the child and should therefore at least have the same, if not even the better rights. Ladies and gentlemen, by extending the rights of the stepfather, one sees that there is a danger of man being delayed or in need, as it is so beautiful. That is why I put forward a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: "The Federal Government is asked to forward to the National Council as soon as possible a government template which provides for the care of both parents as a legal rule. A departure from the common care should in individual cases only be provided for in the event of an objective risk to the child's well-being. Positive international experience and the regulations of the Federal Republic of Germany or the proposed arrangements for the revision of the Swiss Federal Council's Civil Code should be taken into account." Ladies and gentlemen, in our eyes there is now a family of father, mother and child. This is the foundation on which our state and our society build.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e21749	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22186	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Do the rapporteurs still want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft law on Family Law Amendment Act 2009 in 275 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an additional request from Mr Fichtenbauer, colleagues. There is also a desire for a separate vote by the Scheibner, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I will vote on the supplementary proposal mentioned, then on the parts affected by the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We are therefore going to vote on the supplementary motion tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer, colleagues and others, who are seeking the insertion of a Z 2a in kind. 1 refers. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 5 and Art. 15 Z 1 and 2, Z 4 to 14, Z 17, Z 19 and 20 and Z 22 to 24 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who give their approval to these parts to a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner, Mr Scheibner, and others, on a necessary next major step in the reform of family law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Musiol, colleagues and colleagues on child care. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Musiol, colleagues on patchwork families. Whoever is in favour of this request, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer, colleagues in the area of separation victims – common care of both parents. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Labour and Social Courts Act and the Court Fees Act, in 276 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment which refers to a change in the title of the draft law. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a similar sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:01:56]] 8. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (208 d.e._Other Organiser Federal Act, which amends the Stock Act 1965, the SE Act, the Company Code, the Conversion Act, the Divider Act, the Capital Correction Act, the Shareholders' Exclusion Act, the Takeover Act, the Co-operative Revision Act, the Labour Constitution Act and the Basic Book Act (Act 2009 – Act 2009) (277 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22358	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr Mag. Mag. Donnerbauer with a desired speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22385	Madam President, Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since it is a matter of agreement and it is also a matter of implementing an EU Directive, the Shareholder Rights Directive, I can take a short look at it. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We are therefore implementing the said Shareholders' Rights Directive. In particular, it is about strengthening shareholder rights to try to increase the presence of shareholders at general meetings through various measures, to create incentives and to facilitate shareholders to participate in the Annual General Meeting. It is also about strengthening minority rights in shareholder meetings, it is about the possibility of electronic forms of participation or the possibility of participation in a shareholder meeting in a letter form. In addition, a resolution was also tabled in the Committee on Justice, which, I believe, is very essential at this time and in which we ask the Federal Minister for Justice to produce and submit a report by mid-2010 on the extent to which the listed companies comply with the rule 31 of the Austrian Corporate Governance Code. This rule 31 is about the fact that the Corporate Governance Code sets out and requires listed companies to publish and publish the assets of the Executive Boards separately in the Annual Report. We are looking forward to this report. I believe that the discussion on the relationship of directors is, in particular, a legitimate one in listed societies, without transforming them into a debate of envy. On the other hand, I believe it is also important to continue to find competent managers and board members for important and listed companies. I therefore believe that this should be discussed without any exasperation at the objective level, and we hope to do so through the Federal Minister for Justice's desired report. Finally, I would like to say that, contrary to the current trend of the economic and financial crisis, and perhaps an appropriate view, stock companies fulfil a very important task in the economic life of our country. In fact, it should be a common objective to increase the possibility of participation through the appropriate capital of the population, to strengthen incentives and also to increase security for shareholders. It is precisely where the issue of financial vehicles is not about instruments that have been constructed worldwide and which have perhaps triggered this financial crisis that are concerned with participation in existing, living companies that create jobs and ultimately contribute to the prosperity of our country. I believe that we should work together, not to defuse it, but to continue to improve the conditions so that as many people as possible can have the security and also have the incentive to participate in it and to provide our companies with capital. This will be another work that has not yet been done and which I am looking forward to in particular. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22433	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22455	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I can join this, of course, it is a matter of understanding. It is true, however, that not only the shareholder directive has been implemented, but a lot more. This, of course, has to do with transparency, with participation, with interest in the capital market. What is to be achieved here is that simply by increasing involvement an interest of shareholders in the stock company is to be aroused and actually a kind of controlling takes place, because we all know that – I only mention Meinl here – many things are not known to the shareholders and shareholders in the companies, which is why the interest is not so great. What is essential for a good capital market is that information increases interest And actually, as one has to say here, there is a resurgence in the field of shares. There are now also new forms of holding the Annual General Meeting, the Shareholders' Assembly, not only in one place, as is usual so far, but now you can also do it via satellite or via transmissions. That's a news. This means that shareholders can now also participate, for example, in foreign countries, which are even situated outside the Atlantic. They are now directly connected via this satellite connection and can also ask their questions via remote participation. Especially lively shareholder meetings, in which the right of question is exercised and everything is clarified, which stands for discussion, always lead to a special development in the course. I think that is very important. It is important, I believe, that the question of the terms of reference of the Board of Directors and their ID is not a misinterpreted secrecy, but it is clear that the Board of Directors is given an amount of X, which is to be identified in detail. I think it is also important to look at the opportunity to see to what extent reference systems of boards may also be used to endanger the sustainability of companies by taking some step towards short-term success. On Causa Meinl, I would like to say that if we all now see that we are becoming “past” almost daily with information in the various media, which is partly contrary to the facts, because there is something else in the judgments, then we have to take some legal step here on the basis of this unsavory development. I am already looking forward to Mr Ikrath's speech in this regard. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22500	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22521	Mr President. Minister! High house! The present government template is an implementation of an EU directive, not too exciting. It is essentially about strengthening the small shareholders and pushing back the influence of the investor groups, who have done a lot of harm in the past – I believe the previous speakers have already done this. This proposal, which improves information policy, will also be available 21 days before the Annual General Meeting. The possibility of a video conference will also be set up here. This is particularly important in the following areas: As we know from Meinl European Land, they have moved their Annual Shareholders' Meeting to Jersey in order to avoid, as far as possible, Austria's small shareholders coming there. In the future, it will be so that you can also participate here via video or conference switching and also vote online, which will certainly bring a great improvement – and that is good that way. However, I would also like to address other points which are very important to me. What we need most urgently is to extend our eyes to the whole financial market. If I look at the fact that casino capitalism continues as if there had never been a crisis that still amounted to € 1 in the real economy € 35 in the virtual economy, because financial derivatives and others are produced and the European banks still impose financial derivatives at billions, each month new, then I really wonder: Have we learned nothing from the crisis? In this area, we also need the European Union, which at least prohibits European banks from this casino capitalism and tells them that these derivatives, which are in circulation here, which are mostly not really covered, are accordingly limited. That is why the EU is urged not only to propose this law, which is also very good and well-founded, but also to put forward a bar here, because if we continue to do so, the next crisis is guaranteed in 10 or 15 years. Therefore, the EU should do their homework. We need them for that, and that's why it's good.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22564	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22585	Ladies and gentlemen! This law is remarkable – especially with regard to its history of origin. You must imagine: There was a ministerial draft, then a review and then a government proposal. This procedure is now the exception in Parliament, and most of the laws are being pursued here in the rapid procedure. In the area of justice, where legal quality is very high, this is now the exception. In the case of the package of violence, we have put on top of it a large number of amendments. In the family law package – which has already been discussed – the review has failed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] And in the case of criminal law on corruption, we will discuss the development of the law in question today at the next item on the agenda. In that regard, it is remarkable how this law came about. – Great recognition for this. Second point, very interesting: I believe that this law goes in the right direction because it strengthens shareholder rights, especially the rights of small shareholders. Questionnaires have been extended, information rights have been expanded, so there are a large number of reliefs for small shareholders. I would like to discuss one point in this context, which, Mrs Federal Minister, is probably not within your area of responsibility, because this would be a change in the Constitutional Labour Act: that would be the question of strengthening the works councils on the Supervisory Board to participate in the termination of the employment conditions of board members. What is the background? – If you look at how today’s Pleite Managers are “golded” and on the other hand the employees have to pay the token for these pleas, by short-time work, loss of wages, cancellations and so on, then I would be very pleased if the works councils on the Supervisory Board had the opportunity to look more closely at how these Pleite managers are adopted. But I assume that I will have to turn to Federal Minister Hundstorfer with this concern. I think it would be a necessary and important step towards reform if we let the works councils speak here. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22634	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22667	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mr Jarolim, for giving me the floor. I don't know how I can make you happy now, but in the Causa Meinl I like to connect and also notice that my discomfort in the Causa has not decreased. However, my confidence that the Ministry of Justice continues its efforts to make these Causa transparent through the judicial system so that the relevant legal consequences can be attached to it has increased further. [[Assured by Dr. Jarolim, Mag. Kuntzl and Mag. Johann Maier.]] However, I would now like to refer to the actual legislative matter, on three aspects which I would like to highlight from the practical knowledge of a listed society. First: Since it is a common concern, I believe, to give shareholders, especially small shareholders more opportunities to articulate themselves over general meetings, to exercise control of the company and to represent their interests as investors, the introduction of the record date and its proof is an extremely positive innovation. For many small shareholders, the obligation to deposit and thus the fact that the shares could no longer be dealt with in the time between the deposit date and the general meeting was a real handicap. This has now been corrected, and this should actually lead to more attractive participation in the Annual General Meeting, especially for small shareholders. Secondly, it is a very essential aspect, especially under current conditions, that future board salaries should also be published in detail: There is already a corresponding target in the governance code. It already realizes about a third of the listed companies without any serious negative effects. Even if one has to pay attention to the subject of envy, I believe that it is really very useful – in the sense of the companies, but also of the shareholders – to ensure this transparency throughout. A third improvement, which I am particularly positive about – and I would like to thank the Ministry of Justice for having worked it out in this way – is that in the future the Corporate Governance Report also shows all measures aimed at increasing the involvement of women in board, supervisory boards and executive functions in companies. I believe that companies are well advised to take this very seriously and take all steps to use and use the potential that lies in women for businesses accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22719	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: (on the way to the speaker's desk) That's wrong!]] – Doctor, where did you report? [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: The folder has been registered a quarter of an hour ago!]] – Then this will appear on the screen soon. [[Cheerfulness in the hall.]] Mr Fichtenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22784	Thank you many times, Mr President. - We have a judicial matter. One of the famous legal theorists of the 19th century. In the 19th century, Rudolf Jhering wrote the famous work “The Fight for Right” – by the way in his time in Vienna. So you see, the struggle for law is daily: one has to fight for his speaking time in a short time – almost the chance of me expressing an express praise towards the officials of the Ministry of Justice who have prepared this extremely complex matter in a perfect form through the way of the government template and sent it to Parliament. This work is extremely difficult, that is not to be underestimated. The implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive was required by no later than 3. ==References== The perfection of the presentation has also been demonstrated by the fact that the judicial committee did not mention it, but everything was taken as it was delivered. A small sentence on this: Of course, it is very correct and is also pointed out in the introductory remarks that in the future participation in the Annual General Meeting and the exercise of voting rights by the Record Date will be possible, thus avoiding the necessary deposit of the shares and the associated trade barrier for listed shares. Strengthening the rights of minority and small shareholders is important. A small note: Those who followed the program “Open said” about the AUA could hear the interesting story of a holder of at least 5 percent of the AUA shares. You all know the name. There was a jubilation when it said that the AUA would be “sacred” – which, as we now know, was one of the great historical lies in the history of economic life. There has been a huge celebration, with very many invited and millions of expenses, but the 5 percent shareholder was not even invited to do so. That's what it looks like. But I hope this is the right step. It is, of course, not about invitations, but about the exercise of minority rights under share law. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22831	No further word? Then the debate is really closed. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 277 of the supplements. Whoever joins this bill, I ask for a sign of approval. - That's accepted. We shall come to the third reading. If you agree in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 277 of the Supplements. I ask for an acceptable sign. - That's accepted. (E 40.) [[17:21:43]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 671/A by Mr Mag. Heribert Donnerbauer, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues on A federal law amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Order 1975 and the Public Prosecutor's Act (273 d.b.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment No 16/A by Mr Mag. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Criminal Code (StGB) (274 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22916	We come to points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reporting has not been desired. We are going into the debate. Mr Fichtenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22946	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! This is a matter which is very much at the centre of public debate and attention. We also have a number of discussions in the area of the Justice Committee behind us, and there were informal meetings which were sent by representatives of the Justice Committee. We now have the result of an amendment to the previous proposal made by the government parties. We are now disturbed by this amendment, in particular, as we have explained in detail in the Committee, that certain bodies of legal entities which we have previously been able to read or deduce from § 306a StGB, executives of public enterprises, are definitely not supposed to appear – or are unclear whether they appear. That is why we are also introducing an amendment to the amendment amendment tabled in para. 1 Z 4a the Litera d would have to say: ‘as an institution of a legal entity or as a result of a service relationship to a legal entity operated by one or more local authorities themselves or in which one or more local authorities are directly or indirectly involved with at least 50 % of the parent, basic or equity, but at least any entity whose conduct is subject to the audit by the Court of Auditors, to the Court of Auditors of the countries or to a comparable international or foreign control body’. Of course, we mean – so that we have clearly referred to it with words; what societies do we mean? – For example, ÖIAG or AUA or more, you all know that anyway. It forbids itself only for reasons of legal cleanliness... [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] If You want to laugh at it, Mr Zinggl, but it is interesting to note that the non-inclusion of such societies gives you an element of lustliness. You're welcome. It is clear that close-to-state establishments are to be caught by the criminality of corruption. We consider it a lack of involvement in the determination of the official according to § 74 StGB. Furthermore, I repeat the Schelte that § 117 StGB is abolished, namely that heirs of deceased insulted persons can no longer bring an honorary offense. This is certainly a defect and a legal defect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e22998	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e23019	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Fichtenbauer has already mentioned, this is a legislative matter, which certainly receives special public attention and deserves it in principle, because it is clear, I believe, that corruption can be an essential negative element in a state and therefore should be given due attention to the fight against corruption. We are thus creating the appropriate instruments. On the one hand, there is already the corruption prosecutorship, which is on the 1st. On the other hand, it is now necessary to provide a separate corruption authority in the field of the Interior Ministry for the Investigators. We have also recently intensified some criminal offences, in particular the real bribery – I think it should also be the main focus – which is about the fact that officials really receive compensation for having to do a non-committal business. That is, I think, also the core of corruption. What happens to this draft law – and is not a secret, we are also – is that certain clarifications are being made about the current regulation, because on the one hand corruption is to be effectively combated – that is, I believe, indisputable – but on the other hand, in the current law at least the fear, especially in the area of feeding, that it would be a flat-rate suspicion for an entire professional group, namely for all public servants, and that this professional group is more or less criminalised on the other hand – already for very small, usual gifts such as a bouquet or for about a coffee to be accepted. If, for example, one conducts a negotiation for hours at a local assembly and is supplied with mineral water or coffee, that is, I think, something against which we should all have nothing. These clarifications are now being made. In this new system, I believe, it is quite possible for us to pass the law in this area. To make the area clearer by saying quite clearly: On the one hand, there is bribery, on the other hand, the acceptance of the advantage of mandatory acts – this should also be paid off, but with a lower risk of punishment. On the third side, there is the real preparation of bribery crimes. Obviously, this too should be strictly punished. However, this context has already been established – and I believe it is important – that it is the link between: on the one hand, when someone is given an advantage, and on the other hand, when an official business is carried out without obligation or obligation or only a future official business is initiated. All of this is clearly punished by this law. I am now tabling the following amendment by Mr Jarolim and myself. This request has been – or will still be distributed in the hall; I can explain it in its cornerstones. This is something that has also been discussed in recent days, namely the question of how we, as well as all members of a constitutional representative body, can find ourselves in this law. This is about the fact that, of course, members of a constitutional representative body, as we here in the House, should be covered by these rules – that has already been the case with the regulation of the purchase of votes. Now it was a question of finding another regulation in an open debate here in the House – we were sitting here with all the parliamentary parties just a few days ago and discussing it. I would like to ask the Commission to take this opportunity to give its opinion on this matter. The term ‘official’ is used, especially for the activities they carry out. These are the votes and all the duties which will be laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the Members of this House. And that is clearly also punishable after this amendment. [[Abg. Petzner: What about the ASFINAG?]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's all a paper roll!]] This amendment will, as has been said, be distributed. I would ask the President to continue to deal with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e23081	Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer, along with Dr. Jarolim's amendment, is set out in his main points and is distributed, as is the previous proposal presented by honourable Member Dr. Fichtenbauer in his key points, which is also distributed. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e23555	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e23576	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is certainly not a piece of glory to say that this legislative novel on anti-corruption is being whipped through by you here in the House today. With this law, you are actually going back a clear step in the fight against corruption and are blaming our country in international comparison. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] Instead of the EU, as requested by UN decisions to step up, you will make it easier for the individual provisions to be made! Instead of precision, there is confusion, a change to the amendment! Instead of clear penalties, there are privileges and exceptions! Only the law enforcement of this novel is a farce! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] In an unprecedented hurry – with the “foundation”, cultural events, sports events could not take place in summer – this novelle is whipped through. Two weeks time for comments, two weeks time for a review, actually shows your bad conscience. The harsh criticism of these shortened deadlines is already to be taken seriously. The former President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Fierce, made it clear when he spoke of the fact that this law is actually a guide to corruption. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: What law are you talking about?]] This draft law is a weakening of anti-corruption efforts. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: What draft, Mr. Colleague?]] - I quote Dr. Fiedler: The explanations read as a guide to corruption. Not only the criticism of Dr. Fierce, but also the statements of the prosecutors and the Court of Auditors would have to give you some thought. The Court of Auditors, for example, writes in its opinion on the section on ‘federation’, which you do not really specify here – I quote: ‘This means that this Regulation could counteract the objective expressed in the explanatory notes of strengthening and clarifying the anti-corruption provisions.’ That is why, Mr President, there is no reason nor hasty to go through these new laws. We therefore make a referral request and invite you to join him. There is no reason to hurry, but there is also no reason for exceptions. Why are managers of ORF, from ÖBB, Post and Telekom, and may also be excluded from the AUA? There has been massive criticism in these areas in recent years. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] With your request – but you are hiding it here at the speaker's desk – you wanted to remove mandates from these provisions! The SPÖ Justice Officer, Jarolim, has even increased to the somewhat curious proposal that EU members already covered by these criminal provisions should be excluded. That was apparently a bit too much – and now the SPÖ is being rolled back. Your amendment, which you are putting in here today, is in fact just a cover-up, namely that the Members are only putting a little under these provisions, but they are not obliged to do so. This shows the bad conscience that you're talking about because we caught you and showed you what you really wanted: In reality, you want to create privileges with this new law; in reality, you were very much interested in doing this! We from the BZÖ are “federation” for maintaining the term, even if there is only the suspicion that officials could have been influenced in their actions. We are opposed to derogations for the employees of ÖBB, ORF, ASFINAG, AUA and Telekom as well as against exceptions for health and pharmaceutical employees. [[Abg. Petzner: ( towards SPÖ) scandalous!]] We from the BZÖ are in favour of clear provisions for Members, where rights and obligations are clearly defined, I therefore ask you: Do not peer through this law with your majority today! There is no need for any haste here, because there are a number of very important objections by the Court of Auditors, as well as those of former RH President Dr. Fierce, and there are also objections by the prosecutors, objections which are to be taken seriously. Take this criticism seriously! Orientation yourself to international standards – and do not make Austria a salmon number in the international area! I ask you to: Join our request for referral back!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e23727	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e23748	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Strutz, allow me to say nothing to this Holler now, because that is something that you have just given of yourself and that is something of absolutely no detail about the matter, that you really do not need to discuss it at all. Mr Fichtenbauer is not here right now; he would be an unwarranted witness. At any rate, I can only say, Mr Strutz, that there is no need for your comments. Ladies and gentlemen, anti-corruption provisions have been in discussion for a long time, and with regret one has to say – but I mean, one can also be wise out of harm; now regardless of the question regarding Members – that some of these provisions have proved to be absolutely incomprehensible, because there were simply provisions inside such as: The official is everyone who is otherwise entrusted with public tasks! – and no human has known who this is supposed to be. There was then a longer discussion, and then the Ministry of Justice issued a decree that reads: these are all in enforcement of the laws; blablabla, i.e. the respective units are covered. [[Abg. Grosz: ‘Blabbla’?]] [[Abg. Petzner: You don't believe that! You have had to bow to public pressure! You don't believe that!]] This, of course, automatically opened a discussion as to whether the letter carrier who receives a drink money or whether the teacher who receives a bouquet of flowers would also fall under it. And if the Faculty of Criminal Law of the University of Vienna declares that this is the case – contrary to the statements of the corruption attorney Geyer, you have to say that – then it is recommended to do something. Legal clarity is certainly our high goal, and ambiguity is not acceptable, nor is it clear. Therefore, it has also been important to come to this novel. Mr Strutz, on the statement: The draft, which is now and hopefully adopted, assumes that individual standards – service standards, organisational standards – are effective, and that, if a violation of them takes place, criminality is given in accordance with the current law. The basic consideration was that it is relatively difficult to cover all matters with a lot of details and with much effort – and therefore at the end of the discussion, we have come to understand that we have, so to speak, aligned ourselves with the respective standards of service law and organisation. And if a violation occurs against them, it is one that is assigned to this crime group. I believe that this is very factual, and I believe that there is nothing in fact that could bring about a greater degree of legal certainty; everyone concerned must know what is going on for them. And it's just that this is now also criminally unwarranted. As a matter of fact, then, I cannot understand at all what is to be bad about what this is supposed to be a deterioration where there are “exceptions”. I no longer understand Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I can only point this out that Mr President Dr. Fierce feels called upon to make a permanent statement now; otherwise it is not understandable. I really want you to look at this and then really argue out of the legislative text – and not as you did, Mr Strutz, because it is said that someone said something to you six weeks ago. There were also interviews by you in newspapers, which were in no way factually correct! I believe that if you look out there – as the first speaker for this – you should have read the draft law to which you refer at least once. This is a requirement which, as I mean, is really not too high. I would like to say something about the question of Members, since a discussion has taken place recently. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is important to listen to the proposals made here in connection with the discussion, namely to question the behaviour and possibly to make criminal charges. And if a criminal charge is made with this crime group, there is no longer any extradition, because then it is extradition because it is related to politics. In the discussion, it was about someone acting differently in a voting process than one would expect. Can we all be required to have a mindset here... [[Call the FPÖ – towards the gallery from which someone is filming: Can you please leave it!]] [[Further calls.]] Mr President, I think you have been asked.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e23823	Please continue, Dr. Jarolim!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e23845	The question arises whether it can be all our serious interest to discuss whether it is criminally relevant for a Member to vote differently in any vote than he or she would have expected. Ladies and gentlemen, where is the free mandate? And what about thinking that, in the end, we are undermining what is important and essential here, namely immunity? Personally, I don't care if one or another comes – these strange precepts are completely unstoppable – but one thing is right: In our country everything can be said, including the Members who represent not the major parties but smaller groups, and it is important to be able to say everything here, because you cannot say it elsewhere, because otherwise you are confronted with a wave of complaints which causes a corresponding cost pressure. That was my concern, and we have now found a good solution to this problem. But for all further discussions, I really want to make an appeal to all of us: We have functions here, we have to ensure the work of a constitutional body here, and it often doesn't matter very well if you say that for Members you should do something if you lose sight of this role. I am convinced that the proposal is very good. But if the discussion continues as I have just read this today, Mr Steinhauer, let me say once again that you are referring to it in the SPÖ and so on that you cannot understand which Members have voted as well, and we in this Parliament are setting up a family police force, then let me shudder it. [[Call the Greens:Steinhauser!]] I believe that we are all called upon to act here, on the one hand, very self-confidently and on the other hand self-confidently in the sense of the Constitution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e23879	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e23925	Ladies and gentlemen! The way in which this law has come about is a nuisance to parliamentaryism. You have to hold that. Short assessment period of two weeks – we know what is usually common. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: A constitutional change you want today with deadline until tomorrow!]] Then there was no government proposal, but one has submitted an own-initiative proposal in parallel with the review and has tried to make the amendments to the Committee within a few days. Even the representatives of the government parties in the committee have said that the amendments are not ready for decision! I then made a request for a postponement, which is the only consequence of such a statement. As a result, all the big parties got together again, there was something bubbling around, and finally the whole thing went through. - That's the first one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] Second: Ms. Federal Minister Bandion-Ortner, you always say that you do not respond to calls from lobbyists. So it looks different visually. The time pressure, I'm just saying: Salzburg Festival. The procedure: The lobbyists have cleaned the Turkish left in the Ministry of Justice; we know this from APA reports. If you do not respond to calls, Mrs Federal Minister – I take note – then take time for this law! What will now be the result of this law is clear: “ Feeding” is de facto punishment free! This is the result of your innovation! The criminal record is now being prepared for bribery in place of the requirement stock. I can read from this, if I think it well, that the Ministry of Justice is trying to save at least one remaining element of the crime “federation” stock. But fact is, and we know that – we don't need to talk about that either –: The whole thing depends on the fact that in the act of “feding” the intention must be that an official business should not be carried out objectively later. We know that this inner situation of motivation will be very difficult to prove. That is to say, it is here pretended to be “feding” in any form further punishable, but de facto it is fined – a classic placebo handling. But let's keep track of what the result is: If an armaments group invites officials involved in a procurement process, including spouses, to VIP weeks, this will be fine-free in the future, unless there is the intention that it will later postpone any procurement business, or if it is only wise enough that the purpose is not detectable. I trust to offer you a bet today: If, in two years' time, I make a request to you, Mrs Minister, to judge how many people have been sentenced to this new state of action of feeding, the answer will be – and I am sure that there will be no one. It would have been more politically honest, Mrs Minister of Justice, if we had addressed what was the matter: Do we want “feeding ” to be punishable or not? – We want “feeding” to be punishable – they don’t want it. So you'd rather have completely deleted it from the law. The next point is the famous Members' corruption – I don't know what Mr Jarolim has quoted, I'm going to look at it afterwards, I don't know it – you have to look at the story a little bit. Red, black, blue, orange got out of it two years ago. Impunity for corrupt Members, that was the motto. Otherwise, no crime is too severe, but when it comes to Members, it is mild in this House. The UN Convention against Corruption has not been implemented. Then, for two years, the defenders of the corrupt Members have fought for a defense. The arguments were scurry. One of them said: We have already signed a lot, we do not need to implement this. - That was the SPÖ line. The ÖVP has tried something else, it has said: That's what we've already done! The legislative service of this House has given all clubs an opinion that the UN Convention has not been implemented as regards the criminal offences of Members. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: You know exactly in the opinion only the opinion of an individual...!]] – Yes, I waited for it! What does Mr Donnerbauer do? – He says this is the individual opinion of any official in the Ministry of Justice. This is “only” the leading legal authority in criminal law in this Republic, but Mr Donnerbauer obviously knows better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] If the contentions are not sufficient, then the populism gap. Let's hold on: According to SPÖ and ÖVP, those who are for transparency, for a fair right of corruption for Members, evil populists, those who are for the greys and for privileges of corrupt Members, are the sincere parliamentarians. – That's how it looks! The fact is that this has nothing to do with populism, but a modern democracy also needs standards for Members in the law of corruption. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] But it was even better in the negotiations, in which I was then given the good advice: Okay, your opinion in honour, but please don't be public, you're hurting parliamentarianism! – This cannot be surpassed by cynicism: The person who criticizes privileges harms parliamentarianism! Ladies and gentlemen, damage is done to parliamentarianism if we here give ourselves corruption rules, protect Members from prosecution and no one can understand outside. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] This is damaging to parliamentarianism, and we must not be surprised when confidence in Parliament decreases. But that is the logical consequence of such a procedure. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Last Tuesday, the “protection department”, which made the wall of the corrupt Members, collapsed in itself, and it has been announced that Members will finally be included in the law of corruption. I was very pleased at the first moment, saw this as a political success – until I held the request in my hands. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that Members are equal to the officials. But then the criminality is limited – first – to the purchase of votes and, second, to those obligations which the Members have in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I have looked into the Rules of Procedure, which are the duties of Members. This can be read in § 11: The ‘commitments’ of a Member shall be required to attend meetings. So let's hold on: The great involvement of Members in the corruption law looks so like future Members who get the money for not going to meetings will make themselves punishable. – After that is “epochal”, ladies and gentlemen! I congratulate you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: That could change the majority!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Don't rain up like that, or you could still believe you're running around your own criminal body. If you scream around like this, people get the impression that you're afraid of prosecution. I would be careful because there is an impression that will not be fair to you, ladies and gentlemen, because I am convinced that you, Mr Donnerbauer, are not a case for the corruption penalty right. So down with the voice position, otherwise you get the impression that you're afraid of something. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this mean? – If a person does not raise critical questions against money in the Investigation Committee, it is free of penalties. If anyone sells requests for money, he's still free of punishment. If someone who runs an investigation committee gets money to do this in a certain direction, he's free of punishment. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Who does such a thing?]] This request from you that is present today is a huge malaise, a placebo. They lead the public around the nose and thereby harm parliamentarianism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24076	Mrs Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24098	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am really glad that this law is being passed today. A few words about the career: One doesn't fit if one law takes too long to work on it too long, the other doesn't fit if it goes too fast. So you really can't do it – and I'm getting used to it slowly in politics. The following shall be noted: We have sent the law in review – it was a relatively short time period, that is right, but it is not a completely new law, but a modification of an existing law. [[Call the Greens: Degradation!]] We have received 54 detailed feedbacks, and we have received material criticism, but not populist criticism. But unfortunately this issue is very suitable for populism. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Is the Court of Auditors populist?]] There is now a recent draft, and I believe it has been really successful. One thing has to be said in advance: I'm not actually responding to calls! People who know me know that. But of course it's been since 15. January, the day I took office, gave numerous discussions. I have been addressed everywhere on this law, no matter where I came – in the inn, at an event, on the street, everywhere – no one was satisfied with the existing legal provisions. And – that is perhaps not entirely irrelevant – politicians from the opposition parties also spoke to me about it and asked me: Can't we change that, that's terrible, you can't go anywhere?- Oh, my God! [[Call the greens, who?]] And now suddenly, as we change it, we are the bad ones; but please. That's what I said once. – I don't call them names, but I could call them. [[Call to the ÖVP: These were surely the fungus and the Steinhauser!]] [[Further ongoing calls.]] – If I may continue to speak, please tell me. Thank you. What's changed now? – The existing legal situation has simply led to great uncertainties. That hurt the economy. And this law should not harm the economy but the economy. That's why corruption fighting is so important. The fight against corruption is an essential concern to me, I have always stressed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why this draft also provides for a strengthening of the rules on corruption. There have been limits in value, we have removed sublimits, and we have increased the threats of punishment, because true corruption is really effective and effective in fighting, since I am entirely of your opinion! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let's get to the term official. It has so far been extremely imprecise. Who's going to be official now? – First, service providers and bodies of local authorities and social security institutions; second, persons who carry out sovereign functions; and third, companies which are mainly responsible for local authorities and social insurance companies and which are subject to the audit of the Court of Auditors, e.g. the Federal Accounting Office, the Federal Accounting Agency or the Federal Procurement Agency, but not AUA, Telekom, Post and the companies that are partially interested in this. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Why not?]] Why not? – Mr Stutz, I can tell you very precisely why not. What do we want? – We want the stricter rules for corruption in the areas of administration. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Oh?- Oh, my God!]] There are also bribery rules for all other areas. They're not that strict, but there are bribery rules. Of course, employees of the ORF and employees of the ASFINAG must not be bribed nor be bribed, as there are provisions in the Criminal Code. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: From 3 000 €!]] Companies which have to prove themselves in free competition are to be covered by the general bribery rules. This is simply the intention of this law. And where else do you draw the boundaries? Can you define precise limits for me? – This is not possible. What can you do and what can you not – I explain it very briefly –: One cannot, it is punishable to accept and give advantages for non-compulsory practices. Moreover, it is prohibited to accept and accept benefits which are taken against an explicit service ban, i.e. against service provisions. This is also an essential step forward, because, so to speak, the link between service law and criminal law is also called for internationally. It is also to be said: If a service provider permits something, why should one suspect it? Benefits demanded by an official should also be punishable. There is no need for an official to have any advantage, that is to say. To the famous provision regarding “feding”: “feding” should now be punishable if there is a intention to do wrongful behavior – and this can be proved, of course one can prove it. Much less can I prove, Mr Steinhauser, that we have already discussed this in the Committee on Justice, whether a Member has asked a question or not. How do I prove that? It is also important that we have now taken in the active repentance. The active repentance is immanent to the asset offenders and causes crime to be resolved, exposed and damage prevented. That means that someone must announce this before the action is discovered and give the advantage of the authority. That is, if you want to, perhaps a small preliminary step towards a decommissioning arrangement that can be discussed. As I said, I am very glad that this law is being passed today. I also believe that there have been misunderstandings in the public. I hope that these misunderstandings may soon be eliminated in some discussion with critics. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24251	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24272	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Sometimes you get the impression here, as if some were aware that there are misunderstandings in the population and also in the public. All the more important it is to stress repeatedly that the reform of the anti-corruption law is not about criminalization, but rather the abolition of the criminalisation of the promoters of culture, science and sport, and that this law, of course, makes a clear commitment to combating corruption, and that should be our goal, ladies and gentlemen. The current anti-corruption law was a particularly large thorn in the eyes of the cultural organizers because, in particular, sponsors, especially sponsors of the Salzburg Festival, threatened to cancel their engagements. This has even led to cultural leaders, but also sponsors, joining a Committee of Action, which has called on policy to act as quickly as possible. And that is what we have done, ladies and gentlemen. This action committee has joined prominent Austrian cultural managers. To name just a few: the Festival President Rabl-Stadler, the Musikverein-Intendant Thomas Angyan or also the Bundestheater Holding Head Georg Springer. Their accusation to the existing law was, above all, that every invitation – and you all know that very well – is very easy under the current conditions under the general suspicion, later to trigger a criminal act. The fact that this leads to the total uncertainty of all sponsors, both in the field of culture, science and sport, is obvious, and therefore it is so important to act here. This action committee calls the innovations a great and right step, and that is enough for me to say that those concerned welcome this law, that it is a good reform that we should all share together. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these are new regulations that make sense, which are precise and, above all, cover grey areas. Our goal – and we must keep this in mind – is to fight against real corruption, but not to put stones in the way of our sports and cultural operators. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Especially in economically difficult times, such an uncertainty of sponsors naturally leads to existential dangers of cultural operators, and we must not allow that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] In order to create legal certainty and clarity, social and adequate regulations are needed, especially in terms of understanding. These are now given with this law, with this reform. I ask you once again to bear in mind that it would be particularly important for the cultural and sporting operators that this House also adopts the law together here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24344	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24366	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We have noted that we have tried to clarify and improve the anticorruption law, no doubt. But an essential point has not been achieved, and that is what is stated in § 74 para. 1 the definition of officials. That is a crucial point, a point which we have defined differently in our amendment. A mixed functionality has been chosen, so the assignment is very unclear. There is a great deal of work being done here. What that means is questionable, that is a very unclear concept. The definition of whether an entity or an undertaking is examined by the Court of Auditors or a similar entity would be much more sensible. That is why we have also chosen these. As a result, it now looks like the current amendment is precisely the large infrastructure companies ASFINAG, ÖBB – these have already been addressed – and so on – are excluded. And exactly where the major procurement operations are going, where, in reality, an incredible amount of money is in play, especially money from the public sector, this provision is not to apply. The regulation contained in the amendment tabled by Mr Donnerbauer, Mr Jarolim, is really not a target. In fact, the companies that are meant to be here are not in question at all. This is completely outrageous because of this smeary concept of “far-most achievements”. So it would have been a crucial point to take in the companies I have mentioned earlier, to include these companies in the anti-corruption law, because it is precisely there that public money is shifted to a large extent. That's where it's supposed to be. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will therefore only vote in favour of our amendment. If you go along, nice, if not, then we're not there.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24411	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24432	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I really wondered about the speakers from BZÖ and Greens and about Mr Steinhauser. If we are debating a law here, I assume that at least the amendments tabled by the Committee on Justice are taken into account. What Mr Strutz has delivered here was no longer to be interrupted. He's quoting from a ministerial template. Since I assume that he is not only powerful in speaking but also in reading, I really recommend that he read the amendments carefully and put the debate here in the plenary room to the point. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let's hold on: If the positions of BZÖ and Greens were implemented, sponsoring in the cultural and sporting fields would not be possible to this extent as before. I do not argue here with the Bregenzer Festival, not with the Salzburg Festival and not with the Vienna Festival Weeks, but with the small stages, I argue with cabarets, I argue in the sense of sport, in the sense of the sports organizers. Sponsors buy whole performances and are therefore necessary for the small theatre, for the stages. I say here what I have already said in the Committee on Justice. With me were organizers, including those who are close to the Greens. And I have repeatedly stressed that there are two political groups in this House who are Explain the term “feeding” to the extent that normal sponsorship is no longer possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall continue this argument. In Carinthia, in particular, I will inform my friends in sports that sporting events or maps of sporting events can no longer be purchased. Mr Petzner, this is what is happening. So far, it was common for events to be purchased that you bought 100, 200 cards and passed them on to acquaintances. – However, if you did, this would no longer be possible. Second finding: If your argument, Mr Petzner, were to go through, then Jörg Haider, if he was still alive, would be given criminal interest. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Jörg Haider, who can't defend himself! That's incredible!]] Because what at the celebration of his 50. Birthday has happened, fulfils exactly the state of corruption, and I would like to maintain that with all clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! With this regulation, it will be possible to really fight corruption where it actually takes place. The fight against corruption is necessary: in the international field as well as in Austria. I also refer to the public argument that is repeatedly misused to discriminate against Members of this House. I distance myself from this and urge the Green Member Steinhauser to apologise; he has spoken here several times of corrupt Members. On behalf of my group: We don't like that! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If Mr Steinhauser believes that there are corrupt Members in this House, he should show them. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] Only one thing we do not understand: that he is denoting Members in this way. Mr Steinhauser, you are denouncing Members of this House, you are acting deception and misguided because you claim things that are not in the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24506	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24527	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to come back to exactly what Mr Westenthaler is now addressing. Mr Maier is shuddering about a dead person here from the speaker's desk. I don't know if that's the right style of a government party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] I think you should be ashamed. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jarolim has already said that correctly, he was really right: This still existing anticorruption law is a punch. The We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for an No one knows each other. No one knows how this is really interpreted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] No, you are changing it because it is not feasible. Now, however, make the next mistake, go here and whip it in a husch-fuch-action. The deadlines will be shortened. You can't even discuss while you're trying to explain to us that everything will get better now. Mr. Col., where are you? You really have to ask yourself which husch-puss legislation that is. This procedure, as this anticorruption law is amended here, I find it embarrassing, yes sad. It's a disaster. Let us just see how the discussion has been held here. Members have been pushed out. This has a small side-taste immediately; “Futter” for the media, “futter” for all critics. I think that was the wrong way. In my opinion, this law belongs back to the committee, is properly consultative and then amended. It is necessary to ensure that such cases as the withdrawal of the ORF, the ASFINAG, the post office, various public chambers and so on are no longer possible. As has been said right here: The fact is that in these areas, where there is a lot of money in play everywhere, as in the ASFINAG, there is a risk of “federation” of officials. However, these are not included in the term. So I can only tell you: Change that! A change is made here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am already a little surprised when Mrs. Bandion-Ortner makes himself here and says that the critics of this law are populist. – If honor rations like a former President of the Court of Auditors criticise this law, the Court of Auditors itself has now criticised it, then it is not populist but professionally correct. That's where you should take your nose, Mrs. Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, I would like to deposit the following: Although this is not “federation”, I know that, but it is a clear thing for a BZÖ politician. I used to be in the Federal Council for five years, having received two fixed cards each year, premiere cards, even this year again, but never accepted them, but always paid them out of my own pocket. And that is exactly how you should go out on the street as a politician and as a model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24600	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24621	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! If you follow the discussion in recent weeks, if you have some typewriters in newspapers, if you are also following the contributions to the debate quite closely today, you unfortunately have to come to the conclusion that this republic must be a most corrupt republic. It must be concluded that we are living in a banana republic. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Bullshit!]] And today, when it was said of propriety, It would be extremely decent if we were all to act together against this representation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is really about combating corruption in the Republic of Austria. It is about combating corruption in a country that is among the clean countries worldwide in the fight against corruption. [[Abg. Grosz: Don't forget: Skylink!]] In the international ranking of Transparency International, Austria has been ranked 12, with 8.1 out of 10 possible anticorruption points. [[Abg. Grosz: To Sicily!]] So I would ask the Members who have perhaps had other experiences in Carinthia to follow this issue with the necessary and appropriate seriousness and with due regard. [[Abg. Grosz: Skylink! AKH scandal!]] It is about optimizing the existing legislation, so that the standard subjects also have a certain legal certainty. This draft law has made a clear attempt, a reasonable attempt. [[Abg. Grosz: The swamp belongs dry!]] – I know that you are excited, colleagues from Carinthia, Gerald Grosz, you are “imported”, Carinthia is a topic of your own, there is certainly still a need for action, but here we discuss the optimization of the law. A reasonable attempt has been made: with clear sanctions for clear elements of action, with a clear definition of the term ‘officials’, with the system-compliant introduction of active repentance. If this draft becomes law, this will help us to move further forward in the international ranking and Austria is not a corrupt country. - Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24729	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24750	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If my colleague Steinhauser spoke about the possibility that there could be corrupt Members – yes, let me speak – then I can only say that he was wrong. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Not of the “possibility”, he formulated it differently!]] There can be no corrupt Members because there is no such section in the Criminal Code at all. That's why there's no such thing as that. That is why he was not right. But then, when the ÖVP comes such calls: Who's that? We do not have corrupt Members, and therefore we do not need the law, then I can only say that this is a really strange logic. According to this logic, it could also be said that a society that is not stolen does not need laws that punish theft. And in the moment when it is then stolen, it is true that the exact thieves cannot be condemned. That is why this logic has been completely misappropriated. Ladies and gentlemen, I made myself smart and looked at what happened a year and a half ago. We've got 5 on the 5th. ==References====External links==* Official website And I can tell you – read it yourself! – there was no excitement at all, there was actually everyone doing it. There has been an objection from the Greens, even a request for Parliamentarians to be included. This has been constant since then. This was rejected by all the other political groups. But otherwise, everyone was very satisfied. The public has also responded very positively. The law followed international standards at the time, and Austria obviously had a need to catch up in the matter of corruption because corruption is very easily confused with cosmopolitanness in that country. Then suddenly the Salzburg Festival was held. You can really observe that very closely in time. And all of a sudden, big companies and sponsors are on top of it: Hoppala, that concerns us, we are involved; we also invite officials, not even too narrow, quite a lot; and what they get is not so without it! The company UNIQA, for example, announces a “sponsor package” – under quotation marks – with €800. For example, there is the trip, there is the festival card, the overnight stay, a meal and everything for a companion. And all this goes on now, so it's still possible. Instead of leaving this incorruptible tradition, the following has now happened: You have attacked the law and you want to make the wrong right. And that's what's going to happen now. What is particularly disturbing to me is that the whole thing has been explained with the argument “fall of the cultural evening country”. So in the moment when corruption is no longer possible, art dies, so to speak. The art is now being instrumentalized twice: the first time with the “feding”, i.e. with these packages, and the second time by saying that without “feding” there is no culture and no art. – I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, I know – and I am from the cultural and art scene, as you know – not one artist/no artist who has made himself strong for the easing of this criminal stock, so I was interested in it, even from cultural management. There is only one woman who has appeared in public, Mrs Rabl-Stadler. Mr Maier, you have already told me that in committee, and I have said: Give me the people! You said, well, all of them. I asked Wittmann: Yeah, yeah, there were people with me! The ÖVP: Yeah, there were people! – I don't know anyone, call me the people! Why don't I know them? Why can't you call them? Call her! So it has never been about culture and art, but it is only about the economic interests that are behind these proposed cultural interests. Also this year we have these interests again, even this year there will be Salzburg Festival again, and unfortunately I cannot spare you, Mrs Minister, the accusation that there will be an occasion legislation. All of this has to happen so quickly so that the Salzburg Festival can be handled. The quotas have long been sold again, and behind the scenes the colleague Rabl-Stadler – I say "Collegin" because she was sitting with me in the board of foundations – was promised that until the 1st century. September everything is regulated. And, Mrs. Minister, you've settled everything and everything's all right, everything's all right! Now I am coming to the term office very briefly. I do believe that a strengthening of the term of office was necessary, but this ambiguity was in fact a resolution of many who would actually have been included in this term. I can now actually think that in Holdings, such as at the Bundestheaters, people also work, for example, the Volksoperndirector, who can then order for a gift – and that is, tax money – companies that were so to speak useful and holding him. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I can conclude by saying: I can give up on a culture built on ‘ feeding ’ and on corruption! They will not be surprised that we cannot come closer to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24803	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24826	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zinggl, this is also the reason why, in recent weeks, we have to deal with this again and again, the media hype, that Austria is presented in such a way as Mr Schönegger mentioned and said that the population feels that Austria is one of the most corrupt countries in terms of officials. – I can only refer to the sixth place in the European ranking of Transparency International. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Opposition...!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: First we were at the twelfth!]] – International, from 145 states, Mr Kogler; 6th place across the EU. But you know exactly what the cultural scene is, Mr Zinggl, about. You are active in the art scene, and you know very well, it is not always about the Bregenz Festival or about the Salzburg Festival. Because you said that Mr Maier should call you appropriate people: Take this thick folder where all these promotions are inside! These are hundreds of small-scales, cabaretists, artists and artists who ultimately have to pay €2,000, in the communities, in the cities. They feel that most, and therefore it is particularly important that we have introduced a bar to this one. I can only mention again, it has been said from the beginning that we must not tolerate corruption and bribery in this sense. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who says that?]] It must also not be a cavalier's offence, that is clear, therefore also the current improvements. [[Abg. May. Kogler: There you need to promote an open culture and not lubricate section heads!]] These improvements and the discussion process have lasted almost a year since the decision-making of the first law, and one may also be a little failed because it has been shown that difficulties exist in many areas. The assessment procedure has also shown where the political contributions are actually the problems. I would have no understanding of the fact that, from now on, all the officials in the various functions that are voluntaryly active in countless associations – in sports clubs and in cultural associations – must always consider exactly what they are doing if they are active in the association to take care of sponsors, procurements and much more, and at any time have to expect them to be displayed in court. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... Donate, but not...!]] It was necessary to improve this, and that has been clearly improved. I can assume that a very good law has been created. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Get out of it!]] It was also necessary to re-establish the term of office, and we can assume that even by increasing the penalties, those who really bribe and are really susceptible to corruption – not those we are now discussing all the time – will be given their just punishment. Therefore, I believe that there is also a sense of interaction and communication in the future and a reasonable relationship between all officials and the associations and that not every action is effective. In this sense, I believe, a very good law has been created, and I also thank the Federal Minister for support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24931	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e24952	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear speaker, the law is then a good law if one considers the evasion of anticorruption provisions to be good or if one gives priority to certain parts of the economy, such as the housing industry or the theatre industry, the protection of corruption. - But we shouldn't. I can recall that already the great lawyer Cicero in 70 B.C. in his indictment against the corrupt governor Verres: No fortress of the Earth Circle is strong enough that it can resist the money! This problem not only moves through Roman history, but still through the history of the Republic of Austria. That does not mean that the Republic of Austria is a corrupt state or that we are world champions in corruption, but we are not in favour of corruption, and far-reaching areas of our administration are not only threatened by corruption, but also enforced by it – everyone who acts legally, has completed construction projects and construction procedures. To return to Cicero again: The most important thing is that an official, one representing the state, decides free of pressure and, as he has said, free of the temptations of money for the best good of the general. And that should be our maxim. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This ceiling was quite clear and well regulated in the previous law – apart from being unhindered in the term of office, but it was clearly regulated. The regulation has said that anyone who receives money in connection with his or her duties is punishable. – That’s how it should be! It is not a matter of someone doing or concretely demonstrating something bad and taking money for it, but should not receive any money in connection with his or her duties. This also applies to Members of Parliament. And that is no longer the case with Mr Jarolim, with the words of the law. Now it is no longer about the management of the office, but it is about the fact that someone has to act concretely against his duties or accept money for acting in accordance with his duties. That is to say, there is an blatant weakening of corruption protection, and therefore I do not understand Mrs. Minister when she says that this is a good law. I do not understand it either, when it says that the law should serve the interests of the economy and must therefore be reformed, because, as I said, it should serve the whole economy and the whole economy has a high interest in the corruption-free functioning of the state administration. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Some sectors of the economy that may benefit from corruption should also be associated with the cultural sector should not be put on the whole. Finally, Mrs. Minister: They have said that ASFINAG, ÖBB, ORF we cannot include in the corruption rules because they are in free competition and therefore should not be put worse than other companies. It's a joke, I bet. To what extent are the ASFINAG, the ÖBB and the ORF in free competition? These are companies that politically manage state assets in the sense and on the account of the state, and they therefore need to be treated as state institutions. [[Abg. Grosz: That's it!]] [[Abg. Grosz: That probably explained to you the ÖVP, but unfortunately this is not the case, Mrs Minister, as you believe!]] If our amendment on this subject does not agree, we will, of course, reject the overall law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e25044	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e25065	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of these three laws to be amended, I may refer briefly to the Criminal Code. The purpose of this law is to amend the law on corruption and reduce problems in practice. The aim is to prevent corruption. I believe, Mrs Federal Minister, with this change you have really succeeded in creating a suitable law – with the parliamentary work that this law has finally changed. However, I am surprised by this discussion that is taking place today. Mr Strutz obviously did not read the amendment and, with Mr Steinhauser, the flat-rate speaker, I can already imagine that he may have problems in his own group if, suddenly, compulsory and non-compulsory behaviour is removed. [[Abg. Grosz: I doubt that! In contrast to others, Mr Strutz can read and write!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: I think you're fed!]] [[Call the BZÖ:Are you fed?]] Who transmits confidential information and may thereby benefit himself? In our group there is no such people, which is more likely to be found in the direction of the Greens. If Mr Zinggl says that no one has come to him, I can already imagine that. Just as you behave, I wouldn't go to you and say, Help me! – I prefer to go to Jacky Maier and say: Look out, these and those problems are to be solved! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Hübner, we do not say that the economy is more important than the fight against corruption. Only unnecessary obstacles should be removed; that is important, I believe. It should not be so that interpersonal contacts with such a law are prevented; traditional practices should not be suppressed or criminalized. It should also be possible in the future to perceive cultural, sporting and also hunting occasions without immediately being suspected of corruption. [[Call:This is not the problem]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Mensdorff! - Hunt trip!]] It is more important to take advantage of it as an official and let it influence his official acts, and, vice versa, whether a person requires and receives an advantage from an official. This is crucial, and this is also prevented by this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e25166	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e25187	Mr President. High house! Mrs Bundesminister Bandion-Ortner, with all due respect, I cannot spare you the accusation: The draft we are discussing today has the value of a roll of paper! [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] Mrs Bundesminister, if the Council of Europe criticises Austria for the corruption of politics and justice, perhaps you should read these reports and take them seriously once in a while, and in the law these considerations should be reflected again. If Mr Schönegger speaks of the ÖVP today about the fact that we Austrians do not live in a mafia country, then I say, no, that I give you absolutely right, because Sicily is apparently even more advanced in the fight against corruption than it is the anti-corruption law of the Austrian Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Nice to meet you.]] That we need a sharp anti-corruption law in Austria, we know at the latest, since we have to tolerate in Austria an AKH-corruption scandal and a WEB-corruption scandal; and we also know, since we in Austria are now shaken by a Skylink-corruption scandal in these weeks, where 500 million € tax money is sunk somewhere between Michael Häupl and Erwin Pröll and nobody knows where this tax money came from. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] When we talk about corruption, we know what that is, because we in this House also had a committee of inquiry on it, Mr. 'Eurolim', namely the 'Euroteam' committee, where you have also been at the heart of the discussions. – That was a corruption scandal down to the Social Ministry. Finally, I would just like to remind you of ‘Noricum’ and ‘Lucona’, of all that has broken SPÖ and ÖVP in this Republic within 30 years, and thus you have only made corruption in this Republic permanent. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Bundesminister, you want to involve Members: So whether it is the master's achievement to involve my colleagues Faul, me or whoever else in the corruption conditions, especially since we have only a decision-making power over our own salary? Although this may be the master's achievement, it is also fine, for Members should not steal from it, but rather rather enjoy the same duties as any other institution in that republic, but that you should involve Members as a placebo while leaving the entire state-related area outside like the ASFINAG, that is not a target. . I recall the Court of Auditors report on the fact that the ASFINAG has created noise protection walls by millions of euros, built by the same producer, with windy calls, where one should not even build noise protection walls. Yes, Mrs. Bandion-Ortner, there would be a little one-time question from your civil profession as a judge. That's the ground, the swamp of corruption. A Federal President – God blessed him – spoke of a swamp in this Republic when he spoke of corruption. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner.]] Or do we talk about the ÖBB, about the lubricating payments and suspicions in this field; or, Mrs. Federal Minister, about the chambers! Are not chambers susceptible to corruption? Or, Mrs Bundesminister, what about social security? Apparently you don't know anything about the authorisation of medications and the refreshments with the pharmaceutical industry. You do not want to be involved in this area because otherwise you will destroy competitiveness? Soci-alinsurance money from the Austrians, who are huddled and are handed over to corruption, so that they do not endanger their competitiveness – which has not been given in the public order anyway –?- Oh, my God! Mrs. Federal Minister! ORF, Post, Telekom, construction orders at a level of €70 million – and you think you are calming this Republic by including Members of Parliament because perhaps Mr Oellinger will receive a €10 entry voucher for an event? This is your great throw in the fight against corruption in a republic that suffered under ten or 15 scandals, in which corruption actually takes place?- Oh, my God! I do not want to remind you and your party – because you are now a party walker on this government bank – of the case of Mensdorff and other refreshments within Austrian justice, nor of the blind eyes that justice has revealed in this area. They have not learned anything from the Court of Auditors' reports. You are sitting here and today on the government bank in a house in which the Court of Auditors has found errors in the public administration for weeks and months, and you have not been able to include these findings in a law that actually deserves the name anti-corruption law, because what we have here today, about which we should be today, has nothing to do with an anti-corruption law. This is a persillic for corruption in our country. No, Mrs. Federal Minister, this is an invitation to corruption, a real invitation for the board of state-owned businesses to do it, you are free of punishment, for you are out of competition! [[OBJECTIVES]] Push your construction orders, commissions, let yourselves be lurked, do it because you have a nice Federal Minister who doesn't want to know anything about all of this, and an overburdened and overburdened state prosecutorship that has not been able to properly determine, for example, the latest ASFINAG scandal! Nothing will happen to you anyway! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister Bandion-Ortner, I therefore ask you, in whose service you are still standing: Are you in the service of independent justice – or are you in the service of both parties, their lobbyisms, their chambers, their social security institutions and their connections to the construction industry?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] Mrs Bundesminister, you have to make this decision today. They were initially a great hope of this federal government, which several political groups have said, but the emphasis is unfortunately on God. [[Abg. Steibl: And is it still!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e25336	Mr Mag. Donnerbauer is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e25358	Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This discussion, which has taken place here in the last few minutes or in the last half hour, has moved me to speak again. I am really concerned, especially with two political groups, who unfortunately cannot resist the temptation of populism on this issue at all. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] – Yes, Mr Steinhauser, I am coming to you. That the BZÖ and Mr Grosz are nothing too stupid and that they are spreading every claim – and if still so false – out here for a small headline, we know that's nothing new. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] But I tell you the following, Mr Grosz: that we are going to make the Carinthian of recent years a standard of corruption for this republic, that is certainly not going to happen to us! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: This is the biggest pot! Give an example!]] Mr Steinhauser, of the Greens, we were not used to that until now, but obviously the temptation is just too big. Just, Mr Steinhauser, I would like to point out that you are acting as if you were sitting here with corrupt Members, without the sparks of evidence, without even mentioning a fact that is hardening. This is to be rejected and is completely, very sad and terrible. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Bravorufe der Abg. Steibl.]] Mr Steinhauser, if you say that everything is to be punished because you cannot prove the intention and the connection between an advantage and an official business, then you did not understand the criminal code. What is the difference between murder, murder and negligent killing? – Only the question of purpose, the inner process. Would you argue, because this is not detectable, that you will always be detained for murder? Just because the purpose is not detectable? – That can't be so! It is to criminalise what we find objectionable, and it is quite clear that if someone – an official – takes an advantage of carrying out an official's business under obligation or obligation. This is a punishment, and we want it to be. Something else, and this is especially important to me: This way of thinking, which emerges here, is, I believe, something which does not at all meet and does not correspond to the operation and self-understanding of this House. If you, as an example, say what you think should be punishable, and it is that someone doesn't ask a critical question, then I ask you: [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: That's what the Lord Fierce says!]] What is the scale of this question? If a question does not correspond to the Greens, if a behaviour here in this House does not correspond to your group, then should we be imprisoned? – There will be no such thing with us, Mr Steinhauser! I think that shows quite clearly what it is all about. The aim is to preserve the free mandate and not to criminalise Members of this House and their activities and to place them under the court's court's guise. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: I am not against the free mandate!]] On the other hand, we will keep our trust, and on the other hand we will continue to act.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e25463	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e25484	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, you will not be surprised if I say that you have also disappointed my expectations of a proper law on corruption. But I'm not making you the biggest accusation. For me it was enough revelation when you said in an interview – there were She is very intrusive –: We want to create more clarity, and that is why the whole thing needs to be more flexible! If you put it that way, I should be right, but unfortunately it is not. The real point is – and I miss this in this debate here – that: The sensitivity to this issue, ladies and gentlemen, has not been achieved in the debate. What are we discussing, dear Jacky Maier? About the football cards – yes, is that supposed to be so – or on opera cards for me, or do we discuss what behavior we want to make criminal in all cases? In the whole debate, the name of a very prominent finance minister has not fallen, of which I know we have used a lot of debates on this issue in recent years, because in his case, of course, there has been a case of corruption – which was not punishable at the time – of just classical feeding. They all know who I mean: Minister of Finance Grasser. – Not mentioned, an entire debate in which we talk about corruption and feed. You, dear Jacky Maier, I'm saying, The case of Grasser, what he has done, namely to get a homepage financed without combining a concrete action with it, will in all cases be free of punishment according to the law that you now decide. According to what we now have in law – still have – it might be punishable. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Mr Oillinger!]] But if we decided to do so, Mr Grasser, he would do it today, in all cases, without penalty. - First case. I don't want to discuss this in detail. [[Abg. May. Stefan: What about the hybrid fleet of the green party tip?]] Now I come to the Members and to the increase of Members here, who all consider themselves corrupt, to be speaking. Let's talk about the specific cases. – Mrs Federal Minister, you will remember one that has been dealt with in your case, in the BAWAG process: Without the public – and I do not mean the Members here – being particularly interested in the BAWAG process, it becomes clear that a bank director is going to a Member and says: I'll pay you 10 million schilling if you in your group "explore" the mood for selling one bank to the other – between quotation marks! Ten million schilling for exploring an opinion in a group of this House! [[Call BZÖ: Which party was that?]] The deal was finished. In the process, it turned out that 240 000 schillings were agreed upon as honorary “only” – under quotation marks – and were actually paid, for the fact that a Member of this House supposedly only explores in his group whether the members agree. Only 240 000 schillings have been paid. Why? – The honourable Member has said before the court, where he was heard as a witness – and not as a defendant –: It was all so easy, it was no one against it! 240 000 schillings have been paid for that no one opposed a bank to the other bank – P.S.K. to BAWAG so that we can make it clear – is sold. Third case: A Member of this House has sold his mandate for the promise that he will receive a cash benefit until the end of his life. - That's not punishable. Just as little as the case described earlier. I ask you, all of you, of all the political groups: Do you want that to continue in the future? In case 1, Grasser, in case 2, BAWAG, Elsner, and in case 3 – I do not call the honourable Member – at Mr Gaugg, who has sold his mandate for this performance? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Why?]] After good night, ladies and gentlemen, if you really believe that's all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e25604	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e25654	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this opportunity to thank the officials of the Ministry of Justice for the work of the last few weeks, not only on this item on the agenda, but also on all the other items on the agenda. [[Abg. Grosz: This usually only makes the pendl!]] It was a special effort to prepare, in particular, the changes in the law on corruption in order to meet the needs of Members. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: That was an initiative proposal!]] Thank you very much for this work! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls to BZÖ and Greens.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of my group, I would like to make a few clarifications which are absolutely necessary. If Mr Grosz goes out of here and calls any scandal or any probable scandal a corruption case, I would like to reject it with all my determination. If Mr Grosz goes here and thinks that it would not be possible to punish this, he may only read the criminal code, the record of infidelity, because it is precisely this situation that applies to the cases you have referred to. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The way in which problems are addressed very insensitively and flat-rate suspicions are expressed here must be rejected from our point of view. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What was your package speech from Jörg Haider?]] On the question of sponsoring also a clear statement: What it is about, ladies and gentlemen, is that entire performances of small-scales are bought up by cabarets. [[Abg. Oil: Grasser!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Zinggl]] Mr Zinggl, this is the problem of the small cultural organizers. This is not about “feding”, but about the fact that artists get the opportunity to act. [[Abg. Oillinger: Say something to the grass!]] This, High House, ladies and gentlemen, in the opinion of the Greens, but also in the opinion of the BZÖ – or in their opinion – will be excluded. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about your package speech?]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A clarification in case I may have been misunderstood. I just wanted to point out one thing: If these provisions had already been applied in the criminal law of corruption, Jörg Haider was 50 years old. The corruption prosecutor's office should have initiated proceedings against him and also against the givers. [[Abg. Grosz: Against your own party!]] Not only your own party, they were others, you know that very well. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who?]] You can read it in a parliamentary request I made at the time. [[Subsequent calls to BZÖ and Greens.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! With this law of corruption, we are moving on to an international standard. As in the Committee on Justice, I reject the accusations that we are moving away from international standards. We have a right to corruption, which will actually and effectively pursue corruption.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e25833	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e25854	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, what the Greens are trying to do here is one thing: to create a general suspicion against parliamentarians – and this actually reminds us of processes, with a shift of evidence that we know from Stalinist display processes or similar. In the future, obviously only more will be looked at when who spoke to whom. You can, you can also show – but the law as a whole is of course not perfect from our point of view, because – and the Minister of Justice has said that – the managers from the state-in-state establishments were not included in this law. I can only say: Our will is not, because it is about taxpayers in these areas, and the scandals of recent times have clearly shown that corruption or the suspicion of corruption or the possibility of corruption is happening in areas such as ASFINAG, ÖBB, Skylink and so on – I want to save you all because we already know – right up to AUA. Therefore, for formal reasons – an amendment had to be withdrawn because the handwritten correction was not accepted – I am allowed to make an amendment by my colleagues, Mr Fichtenbauer, colleagues, which is distributed on the basis of its scope. I'm allowed to take part in the essentials: It's about point 4a.(d) it is designed in such a way that managers and managers from these close-to-state establishments are also recorded in accordance with this Directive. This is, in any case, an essential condition for us to be able to agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e25899	The amendment tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer in his first speech has been withdrawn. The request now set out in the key points will be distributed accordingly and will be negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26154	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26175	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly, Mr Grosz! [[Abg. Grosz: Here!]] Why are you always so upset? – First of all, this is unhealthy, and second, Mr Grosz – a sentence only! –: [[Rejoicing and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[Abg. Grosz: You can only be upset by the government!]] In the cases you mentioned, AKH, WEB et cetera, et cetera, there have been strict judgments, and this without anti-corruption provisions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26247	There is no more mention of words here. The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, as there are large-scale amendments and additional amendments and a short interruption of the sitting to prepare the vote, I shall put the vote to the vote until after the vote on item 11 of the agenda. [[18:54:09]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report and request of the Economic and Industrial Committee on the draft federal law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000 (EIA-G-Novelle 2009) (271 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26287	We shall now continue to discuss the agenda further and come to 11. I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's Party
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26311	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Grosz! Ladies and gentlemen! A clear word on the EIA, on the current situation. Legal situation. It is, I believe, not a secret that many organizations complain that there is no openness in the EIA procedure, but that ultimately, as well as any procedure, it is concluded positively, which also entails a huge delay in time. Public participation is a more or less annoying exercise in many areas. The last EIA report shows that the duration of the route projects has been halved and the duration of the procedure has remained the same in the case of plant projects. With the change now envisaged, the main reason for limiting party rights is that the parties are expected to bear the blame for the long-term duration of the proceedings. It must also be pointed out that there are others who are responsible for this, for example, if a project promoter does not present the documents completely or inaccurately. It is also a fact that the authorities are not too rarely to take proceedings. We must also point out that the now formulated § 6 can lead to a process extension because the formulation will result in many project promoters assuming that the environmental impact declaration can be made very superficial. Then, further, the requirements of the EIA experts will come, and it will take longer for it to come to the completeness test. Therefore, the project promoter needs to know clearly what the authority wants from him. This is also a contribution to the rapid completion of the procedures. It is also necessary to quickly forward environmental impact declarations to environmental authorities. For example, a project in Lower Austria: The application was made in March and the documents have not been forwarded until today. – Of course, these procedures will take a very long time. Therefore, there must also be a deadline for forwarding the documents. There will be no consent from our side to this innovation; the two-thirds majority will not be easy to reach. We will agree to the referral request submitted by the Greens because we would like to point out once again that it is necessary for this EIA legislation to be consulted in the Committee on the Environment. Mrs Wurm has argued that it is a cross-sectional matter which must also be discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. – I have to say again: The last innovations have also been discussed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, of course, and not in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. This does not reduce the competences of colleagues in the Economic Committee – quite the contrary! . but we all, our mandates, who are working in committees, are trying to maintain our expertise in committee work, to include ourselves in material books, to attend events, and therefore we do not want to be left out of the committee when it comes to deciding on a matter which would be assigned to the Committee. That's really very important to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26356	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26378	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I should like to make a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Schultes, Mr Bayr, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. § 27 GOG of Deputies Steindl, Matznetter concerning a federal law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000. ==References====External links== Reading decides that different points would be changed. This request is distributed, so I can save myself from explaining it in detail. However, I would like to point out some points which show that the debate in Parliament has done well to develop this matter. We have recently had an intensive discussion between the ministries, including civil society, with various federal states, shareholders, stakeholders, and we have finally come to a very good draft for a new version of the EIA-G, which introduces various procedural steps. That's very good, that's very right. At the same time, citizens' rights have been strengthened, transparency improved, access to data increased. We were in the parliamentary prelude – and it is a pity that the opposition parties then no longer participated in this discussion – it was important to adjust some points that improve investor service, which improve the service for affected neighbors, for people interested in various projects. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Thus, it will be possible in the future, even via the Internet, as long as the notifications are open, to get all the data and also to track very intensively what is happening. [[Abg. New builder: If we don't get any documents, we can't participate!]] The project promoter will also have the opportunity to access its data from preliminary proceedings, opinions and so on. All of this reduces the process, increases quality and improves access to environmentally sound project development for all. I would particularly like to thank our Environment Minister, Berlakovich, for if you put up with such a law, there are, of course, infinitely many desires and desires going on to speed things up at this difficult time in which we live. He has stood firm, he has understood well all the topics that have served the acceleration. It was communicated to the economy by the Ministry of Economic Affairs that only what really is possible in the sense of the law. So we have something to present together, which I would like to recommend to you for decision-making.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26422	The amendment has just been tabled in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure distributed in the Chamber. Due to its extent, it has been explained in its core points, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26596	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26617	Mr President. High house! The EIA law actually has the task of driving forward things that are important and right, but at the same time taking into account the living grounds – whether water, soil or air – at the same time. But vice versa, the Environmental Impact Assessment Act does not allow the child to be poured out with the bath – as it sometimes happens – and thus try to prevent certain things under the cover of public participation. I think that there are three things that need to be carefully considered in the EIA law and also in its novelties. First of all, these are the situations, second, the thresholds and third, the question of the region in which sensitive areas may be set or built. Our problem is that this novelle is not really the big throw, it's just a small repair due to a infringement procedure – that was the starting point – because UNESCO's world heritage was not there. The most massive criticism is simple – and I am glad that the Environment Minister is here today – the parliamentary procedure. This has not happened. We have known for two or three years that the EIA law needs to be amended, and then, as the member of the opposition, one and a half hours before the environmental committee meeting, you get an §-27 request before the nose – so thick – and I am supposed to be above it – I am here with it, the crime stocks are listed on 50 pages – whether the facts are correct, whether they are balanced, whether the thresholds fit and if other things are coherent in themselves. [[The speaker shall hold up a statement]] I can't do that! That is, the law is a purely draft of the ministries. Unfortunately, God was not discussed together with the Minister for the Environment, and in principle I say once – Mr Mayor of the ÖVP, listen to me! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I also built something positive for you. – In principle, it would have been positive to speed up the procedures. This is, in principle, a correct starting point. It is only to be kept in mind that certain public rights and civil rights are not too limited in detail. If one knows that there are now 200 cases handled by the simplified procedure and, ultimately, only more than 42 by the normal procedure, then the normal procedure is only one-fifth of all acts, that is to say, the exception procedure. I think there are many areas where you can get the thresholds – please listen to me from the ÖVP Group! – could certainly have increased. That's what the courage lacked. For example, in the field of hydropower or in other areas, in flood protection, for example, where it is now necessary to know that, for example, in Upper Austria, flood protection has been severely delayed. Ask the citizens in the region of Machland, in Mauthausen in Upper Austria, whose houses are now under water again, which they think has been delayed in certain projects of flood protection! Positively, for example, the exchange of inefficient turbines in hydropower is accelerated. But I also say that there are certain procedures, there is time to plan them for the longer term, for example in road construction, in pipeline construction or in the power grid. The connection of the network is important, it is necessary, I think of Salzburg. There you can talk to the citizens, who are basically for that, but it's about how. Do you need large masts and high-voltage lines anywhere in settlement areas or can you do something with earth cables? – These are the things you should think about. I'm allowed to bring in another idea: I believe, in principle, that procedures that include fossil energy should be treated in the framework of the EIA as before, but that procedures which are massively based on sustainability, on hydropower should be massively preferred. I can also add one point: Why not check in the EIA procedure When measures are put in place that bring about a massive improvement in the environmental situation, are they also for people, namely that they are then generally distanced from the EIA? There is such an example in Upper Austria. A circular traffic that caused less congestion on a federal road was subject to EIA. Although there is now less congestion and fewer emissions, this project was also subject to an EIA. That's where I wonder if that's useful and right. A small point in the detail. § 12 para. 3 includes the fact that in future private opinions are directly breakable by the client. However, the procedure remains, i.e. the Authority must review the cost note and continue to require it by means of notice. So, actually, an unnecessary procedure, which could also be amended and abolished. In summary, we can say that there are weak approaches in the right direction. The opposition was, however, largely disabled during the deliberations. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: No!]] [[Abg. Prince: Just went out, Rainer!]] – There was no real discussion, there was no discussion. Dear colleagues from the ÖVP, 50 pages just want to discuss the annex to the EIA law in two hours, that is a farce – for which you have had two years, together with the Minister of Environment and with the Minister of Economic Affairs; it has not been done – and to do so in the wrong law, namely the steam boiler law. Now to say you could have been there, is just a farce! It didn't happen. But you have the opportunity – and I say this in conclusion – to support the green request to reject the law; nothing is lost. Mr Hofer from FPÖ, they do not need a two-thirds majority, they need a simple majority. God, I'm sorry! We could theoretically discuss the law when it ends up in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, as well as in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, where it belongs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26684	The next speaker was Mrs Bayr. Set speaking time: Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26705	Ladies and gentlemen! Let me start by perhaps referring to the real occasion of the novel, namely the production of EU conformity. In the interests of the environment, it should be assessed positively. On the one hand, we are talking about the fact that protected areas, such as nature conservation areas or areas with high exposure to air pollution or UNESCO World Heritage Sites, will have lower thresholds in individual case-by-case testing procedures, i.e. that there will be more often environmental impact assessments, even if only in individual case-by-case tests. The fact that environmental protection organisations are again given the opportunity to appeal to the Administrative Court in the simplified procedure is also a bit like making arms equality and quite welcome. But also the fact that in existing hydropower plants, when measures are more efficient, for example, by means of turbine exchange, and if there is no further damage to the environment by more water slides or by higher dams, no new EIA needs and energy efficiency is simply exploited better, is something I can live with. What I would like to do and what the Socialist Group would like more is to take greater account of both energy efficiency and climate protection as well as test criteria. I would like to remind you that we have European objectives on both issues – energy efficiency and climate action. I believe that we should really take advantage of all possibilities, including all legal options, to do something in this direction. This would have been the possibility. We have found a small compromise in the amendment tabled by Mr Schultes. After all, a climate and energy concept will also be presented in the Environmental Impact Declaration in the future, i.e. that energy indicators, energy flows and measures to increase energy efficiency must be identified on the one hand. On the other hand, with regard to greenhouse gases, it is also necessary to assess in advance how large the emissions will be, and to describe what measures there will be to reduce them in terms of climate change. In both parameters, energy efficiency and climate protection, measures will have to move up-to-date. This is also to be confirmed by a civil engineering office. Also the fact that an environmental NGOs and a representative of environmental lawyers will be in addition to the Environmental Council in the future, I think it is good in the discussion on the broad implementation of this Environmental Impact Assessment Act. Colleagues Schultes has already addressed the better and longer detection of documents on the Internet. This will certainly contribute to transparency. However, I do not want to hide that I believe that participation and participation opportunities of those concerned will have to be improved in the future. Let me also, in principle, say something about the EIA and its bad reputation, which it has wrongfully as a prevention instrument, which it is indeed not! These stories of the eternal procedures are a fairy tale. They do not vote in large part. And if there are very long procedures, they are often due to reasons which are mostly on the side of the project promoters. For example, there are cases where an EIA procedure is started, but not all the land that you will need later for the project. Or: There are simply bad documents to submit the project, and the documents will only be provided in sufficient quality much later. All of this is, of course, delaying. It is also true that in some federal states the authorities are poorly equipped both in terms of personnel and resources. For example, the largest current infrastructure project, the future Wiener Hauptbahnhof, had to do three UVPs – in railway infrastructure, urban construction and road construction – and all three completed in the shortest possible time, because the documents were good and because there was a powerful authority, and this succeeded in keeping the environmental quality really high. The EIA law is undoubtedly a law in progress, that is, in permanent development. It is also important to me that we have agreed that we want to do this development together, that we want to set up a dialogue platform where we want to talk about the basic developments of this EIA, in order to have a broad consensus on improvements on a future occasion that will not be tomorrow or the day after. I think it has become a viable compromise, that there are further simplifications and reductions in the procedure, that investment can soon be made, that the quality of environmental protection will not be undermined and that co-determination rights are not automatically restricted. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26769	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. Fixed speaking time: also 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26791	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Before I speak to the EIA in terms of content, I would like to refer to the Ilisu power plant project, which, after our environmental impact assessment, would certainly not have been eligible for approval. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Just now!]] Our EIA is so good. All the more so, however, we should ask ourselves whether we should not also create more ecological, social and cultural criteria in terms of export guarantee awards. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now to our environmental impact assessment, which we could discuss in terms of content. I do not know which of the two ministers is actually responsible. It has been discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and unfortunately we have not been able to talk about it in the Committee on the Environment. I have already said that, unfortunately, this is exactly the reflection of what happens in reality, namely driving over the environment and driving over the affected. It has already been mentioned by the colleague of the BZÖ that we have submitted a referral request. Unfortunately, according to the Rules of Procedure, we can only refer the new legislation back to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. But we expect the right committee to be entrusted with the treatment of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, namely the Environment Committee. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since it has already been said today, the opposition opposes a discussion and we did not talk with it, I would like to say to you: They now had two years to negotiate about this EIA law. Until recently, nothing happened. I have already called for a meeting of the Environment Council in January of this year, because nothing has happened and we have seen that we must necessarily work on this legislative novel. We have put our opinions there and also in the committees. So don't say we're not working with you! They just didn't want to accept our suggestions. There are some points in this novel that are positive. I'm starting with it because it's only a few. There are, in part, lower thresholds in sensitive areas. The NGOs have appeals at the Administrative Court in the simplified procedure. And – it was mentioned earlier – there is the requirement that project promoters have to present an energy efficiency concept. But now I come to what is missing or what is negative: Although the energy efficiency concept is presented, it is not an approval criterion. Minister for Agriculture! Unfortunately, you fell down. The energy efficiency criterion was already inside the design, but unfortunately it has been stretched out. If you're both sitting here, it's a good thing in this context, because I'm asking you how you're going to deal with your energy strategy. You always say energy efficiency will be very important. But if energy efficiency is not an approval criterion, I wonder how you want to handle it. There are massive procedural accelerations in this law, such as the possibility of the oral proceedings being withdrawn. For those who have not yet participated in an EIA procedure, I explain: The oral proceedings are the possibility in which those affected are directly in contact with the experts and can be resolved questions. There are sometimes a lot of things going on, but sometimes the project gets worse than it actually is. It will always be done if a person brings in a vocation, a citizen's initiative, as if then a project was already at risk and could not be approved. So that's certainly not the case! People who work for the environment are not people who have nothing else to do but deal with procedures for decades, but these are people who fight for their quality of life and their property. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] What we want is a party position and a right of application for neighbors also in the process of finding, because 80 percent of all detection procedures decide that not even an EIA is necessary. All parties concerned then fall within the scope of any party rights. If in retrospect – and there are also cases – we should have made an EIA, then the arrants look through their fingers and do not receive any protection measures. We need financial support for the citizens' initiatives. We Greens have a citizens' initiative fund. Minister for Agriculture! I don't know how you're doing? That might be an idea for you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, access to all the data is not provided. Although opinions are published, all the data relevant for the negotiation are available to the authorities, mostly in the capitals of the country. And this is already very laborious for the citizens' initiatives. This usually means a holiday day to obtain the data. It is certainly true today that all data and files relevant to the EIA must be available electronically throughout the entire period of the procedure. We need, above all, an environmental impact assessment with bites. It is now true that the competent authority is conducting the approval, the procedure is being carried out. However, if the project is then approved, there is no authority that actually controls conditions, controls by-laws and then also initiates appropriate administrative penalties. You obviously did not talk to those concerned, Minister of Agriculture. They have abandoned environmental policy. I call on you to finally become more concrete here and to make environmental policy in Austria. I still believe that we need an independent Environment Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26905	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e26986	The next item on the agenda is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27007	Mr President. Mr. Regierungsmeile! Ladies and gentlemen! There are probably few materials such as the environmental impact assessment, where the interests are so mixed up, as we have just heard: the interests of citizens' rights, citizens' initiatives, where there is the impression that there are never enough rights, that they are still too few, and on the other hand, the interests of parts of the economy that say the procedures hinder us, we could do more if we did not have these annoying procedures, or here we should be even more simplified. Therefore, I am very glad that it has succeeded in making a law in really intense work and with the participation of all stakeholders and now presenting a decision-making document here that is really trying to bring all interests into one hat. I have been concerned to have this balance between a yes to an economic development that makes sense especially in difficult times, and a yes to an expansion of hydropower if we want to achieve the renewable energy targets – 34 percent by 2020 – and, on the other hand, very much to the safeguarding of civil rights and the safeguarding of natural and environmental protection and water rights. This has been successful, and this is guaranteed in this new law. That is why I would like to thank the employees of my house who have worked most intensively on an ordinary legislative novel, all of them involved, including my colleague, Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterllehner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] We were willing to go here a way that allows the interests to be put under a hat. This balance has been successful, as the comments from all sides show in the final effect, except for a few who are not enough. But the fact is, you also have to get the picture straight. It is occasionally stated to the public that the EIA law is to blame if procedures take too long. And it's been mentioned before: It often depends on the project promoter, on various initiatives, and, and, above all, on the national authority. This is the authority's first instance, and if it works efficiently, procedures can also be implemented accordingly. For example, hydropower plants have an average first instance of ten months, in the second instance – that is the independent environmental Senate in the Ministry of Life, a judicial body – of 13.8 months. There are already some projects that take much longer, but this is often justified by the fact that the documents are not sufficient and that there is no political will-building in the respective federal state, where the project is to take place. That is the truth, and that can be so in the future. The law cannot prevent this if it is not guaranteed that the national authority will carry out a procedure efficiently and quickly. I'm getting used to the process acceleration. It doesn't make sense if we make triple, triple opinions that cost a lot of money and that don't bring new insights into matter. It makes sense, therefore, to use opinions in the preliminary proceedings to allow them in the main proceedings as well. Nor do I see any sense in the fact that we have to start an oral hearing if there is no new evidence. Then, of course, it takes longer. That also doesn't have to be if it doesn't bring anything new in matter. I also acknowledge that sometime the chief of the government says: The end of the investigation procedure! This makes sense for all those involved that a procedure is over at some point, and they say that all for and against are at the table, and then it is decided: yes to a project or no to a project. But ad infinitum procedures to delay, of which the taxpayer has nothing, and no human understands. And it should also be ensured that it continues efficiently here while respecting the quality of the procedure. I also say that we are making a turbine exchange if this does not affect nature negatively, then the EIA should not be necessary. That makes sense and brings a lot. However, citizens' rights will also be strengthened in return. It has already been mentioned: Environmental organisations, in turn in the simplified procedure, may lodge a complaint with the Administrative Court. They shall also be transmitted electronically. That means that these initiatives should also simplify their work and balance of interests, and we stand by it. What is new in the law, and that is of course important: climate protection. It is important that there is energy efficiency for the first time in the law, in the preliminary proceedings where the project promoter has to present a concept that proves that this project is energy efficient. I think that makes sense. What the citizens' initiatives must recognise is that there have been some who wanted to bring public interest into security of supply. I wasn't for that, and that's not inside now. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Environmental protection shredded. But this is not happening, and that is why these interests can also be preserved. It is intended to take account of public interests in the matter laws, which are then there – water law law, forest law, road law and so on. I just know that entrepreneurs also often say that the law also guarantees that all procedures are handled in a procedure and that they do not have to go through several approval procedures. Planning and legal certainty are given, citizens' rights are respected, and environmental protection is enhanced. This is important, and this should also allow us in Austria to maintain our high standard that we can implement projects here at an appropriate time, while safeguarding the environment and citizens' rights. What I am not – and that was my goal in this law – is that, so to speak, conflicts about a power plant project to carry out a large project to be implemented on the road. I don't think that makes sense. It makes sense for all those involved to come to a table, to be balanced and then decided on. For this I stand, and I say a warm thank you once again to all those who have contributed to the fact that this important law, which is also intended to give impetus in economically difficult times and also to the environment that serves climate protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27110	Mr Bartenstein came next. Set speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27132	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the EIA law is already in its existing version better than its reputation. Minister Berlakovich, but also Mrs Bayr, have already made this clear: This scapegoat image of the EIA is not justified. The examples can be given several more. It is not just about the efficiency with which the offices of the state government carry out the EIA. I am also aware of a case where, in a semi-Western federal state, an office of the state government of a 380 kV management initially gave the place, but then the national policy of the respective country – by the way quite cross-party – opposed this leadership. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For good reasons!]] But we don't mention names. Another name I call: By the end of June, specifically with 1. July, the 380 kV line went to the network in the Styria, ladies and gentlemen, a long-term, hot-disputed project. But also there was not the EIA to blame, but ultimately the political non-decision. It took years for the major parties and the social partners to finally become involved. Today the thing stands, and I don't know very few who are very, very happy that there is this modern 380 kV line of old 110 or 220 kV lines that pass their house ten meters away. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Jöh! Go, go, go!]] – Go to the “Maurer” to Gleisdorf – I invite you there to a white sprayer or two – and ask yourself there on site, Mr. Colleague, for this too is sometimes quite helpful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, so much on the subject of EIA and scapegoat image, which is not justified. Similar to today, the Environment and Economic Ministers also sat peacefully and partnerly side by side in the Environment Committee and were ready for all information. Also the high officials of the two houses are now again very consensual. But those who were not there were the representatives of the opposition. If you do not participate in the discussion – take your heart! – if you suggest formalism, you are already a little bit guilty. But then don't talk about shutting down the opposition, because if you want to, you've turned off yourself because you've been looking for a formal reason not to have to discuss here. If you say 90 minutes you would have had time to read the §-27 application: Give the truth a little more the honor, Mr Kogler, from Tuesday to Friday you have had time – but Friday very early, 8 o'clock early is really inappropriate for a parliamentary committee. But in these three days was every time for the opposition to study the documents. And, as has already been said, the ministers and all the environmental speakers present here in the committee were, in any case, those of the government groups, and would have been willing to discuss the project with you. In terms of content, we hear it today: It is not really consistent what you have to say about it. Finally – because the red lamb already shines here at the speaker's desk –: Is it not for you to think that the environmental roof association, i.e. the environmental summit organisation of this country, is optimistic about this EIA-novelle, just not you? - But the country will stand it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27191	The next item is Mr Themessl. Fixed speaking time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27212	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Bartenstein, there is also no reason to think that you want to tell us and write two days to study 50 pages and then to discuss it when your partner, Minister Berlakovich, said earlier that in recent months very detailed and very long discussions with all those involved have been held about this law and all the information or suggestions et cetera have been collected. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: No, you can do that!]] But obviously one has forgotten to include the opposition as well. If you want us to discuss and also bring forward our proposals in the future, then a different attitude of the government parties towards the opposition would be required. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have already found this at a point that you had to withdraw today, and you will still need one of these opposition parties sometime in the future to get a two-thirds majority in this House. I therefore hope that you will finally take note that you no longer have the two-thirds majority, and that you should deal differently with the opposition parties in the future. And it is not possible to have the documents provided as opposition one and a half hours before a meeting, and then in the wrong committee. But now on the real topic. – On the part of the economy, it would be very welcome if the EIA procedures were to be accelerated here. But be honest: The structural problems do not change! It was already true that, if a project was wanted by a federal state, the Land authorities were to ensure that the EIA procedures were carried out quickly and quickly, because the documents were also prepared accordingly. And then there's no reason to talk about a delay. On the other hand, exactly the opposite was the case: If a federal country did not want a project, it has already allowed any delay. But perhaps it would be an incentive you might be able to include in your thoughts to consider whether you are already starting EIA procedures in the planning phase. Then an EIA procedure could accompany planning a project, and it would allow you to gain much more time. But one more appeal to the government parties: If in the future you want us to discuss that we bring in good proposals, then provide us with documents in time and don't leave us just two days if the ministry has two years to do so. Then you may find one or the other from the opposition that supports you if you need two-thirds of the majority in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27258	Next, Mr Matznetter. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27279	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! I would like to begin with the Green Group's motion for a resolution. I really do not understand why you're coming with it now. I mean – let's be honest! – we have implemented so much in this area, and especially in the light of the Ilisu decision, this is clearly recognizable: Let us remember each of our discussions in the main committee, where it was in reality doubted that we were serious about the implementation of the requirements! Every single one of them has gone that way. We have been in dialogue in the committee, and you have meant: You tell us that the Turkish operators are asking for any guidelines, but in the end the money will be given anyway. - No, it's not like that! We take these standards seriously and strive to make what we are implementing become reality as well. And in this sense, this motion for a resolution does not need to be because our regulations are implementing precisely those directives which comply with OECD guidelines and, as far as the projects are concerned, we are also implementing the corresponding standards. This is a good transfer on the subject that is actually at our disposal, namely the issue of environmental impact assessments. What is the problem with which we have to fight? We have a procedure in Austria after which we have to implement EU standards, and we are happy to do so because it is ensured that the projects implemented in the country meet a high standard, as far as possible, according to the state of the art. The problem we have is that in many cases the procedure is very, very long. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: It's not that long!]] – I'm still coming Your problem! Now I come to the point that we are meeting here: This novelle does not limit in a centimeter the right of parties, the right of citizens to initiative, the right of those concerned, even in a óta! On the contrary, we are expanding things: For example, the NGOs can make a complaint again. Only what we are doing is reasonable: that, before a procedure is established, it is possible that the project promoters will adapt to the procedure that will be published transparently, that we can also use the results of the proceedings we have from a preliminary procedure in the main proceedings. We are trying to streamline the procedures so that the projects can be handled more quickly in the interests of our economy and thus of our employees. I would also like to say one thing to you, Mrs Colleague: Every right is respected there, but a right, Mrs Colleague, is not respected there, namely the right to prevent a project by entering into the procedure, even if it is to be approved. There is no such right, Mrs Colleague. There is no law that I say in a procedure where I have a proper project at the end of the day with all the conditions: Five years, and possibly as long as the project promoter leaves, we'll delay the project because we don't want it at all! [[Abg. May. Brunner: Where does this fear of citizen initiatives come from?]] This is not acceptable, and therefore an acceleration, while respecting all rights, is a very reasonable step that we are implementing with this reform. Nor do I want to fail to raise this debate, which we started this morning in the debate on the application of the directive, once again. It is clear that two possible committees will be considered by the EIA: the Economic and Industrial Committee and the Environment Committee. I say quite frankly that our Members, too, would have preferred to have a treatment in the Committee on the Environment, but precisely because we are true to the Rules of Procedure, we have made it a law, according to § 27 GOG, where the basic substance of the steam boilers is plants which are normally subject to the EIA. We were aware of the letters of the Rules of Procedure, which is why it was there, and we could not have done so in the Chemicals Act, because there it would have been really inadmissible. And the Green Group could have done the same as we did – because we allowed three days to interrupt – which could have been treated equally with many members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. The result was refusal. Unfortunately, I have to say, because it is a good law, and it would have failed if we had agreed together. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27350	Next, Mrs. Dr. Moser will speak. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27371	Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the grounds of "good law", Mr Matznetter: Read the opinions of the individual environmental prosecutors, read what many NGOs have applied, and look for yourself! For example, if there is no objection, the oral procedure will be immediately deleted. In spite of your remarks, there is also a reduction in the participation of citizens. Mr Umweltminister, you said: Put all interests under one hat! We don't have an ad infinitum procedure in the future. - Excuse me: Was there ever an ad infinitum procedure? – No, not at all! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: 20 years ago!]] But what has happened, Mr Environment Minister, is a constant watering-up, a constant reduction in quality in every novel of the EIA. Let us look at the last innovation in 2006: In 2006, there was the discussion about the third runway at Schwechat Airport, and there had to be a possibility that the EIA law could then be established in a regulation as acceptable limit values for noise protection as possible. Not acceptable values for the population, no, not WHO standard, no, but one wanted to create acceptable values for the aviation industry. For this purpose, the Environmental Impact Assessment Act was introduced in advance. Now it is a question of finally finishing a warning letter from the EU, of getting certain European standards. And what are you doing? - Fuck, fuck! They pack the opportunity to kick, rub their hands, think: It is now necessary to bring a novel to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act into any committee. Let us take advantage of the opportunity and take advantage of the backwind of the economic crisis in order to reduce the opportunities for those affected, to speed up procedures that are already relatively fast anyway, and to deliberately forget things that would be necessary for a long time! Mr Umweltminister! Minister for Economic Affairs! What about access to the investigation procedure? Please, only the authorities decide whether there is an EIA on a project or not. The citizens have no right to do so! And I'll tell you: If they had a right, these citizens would have saved you millions of costs in the Skylink Schwechat case, says Schwechat Airport. Look at this! Skylink is the parade project, where an authority at the national level – in this case Lower Austria – simply passed the notice within a week: No EIA duty. Please, the authorities are dealing with the existing EIA law! What is necessary then? – citizens who look closely at this, citizens who then turn to Brussels, an EU Commission that sends us a warning letter, a complaint. And then what are you doing? - You hesitate to go out. Then let an environmental impact report be prepared, because there is no EIA ex post. Now a report has to be prepared. This report on the airport is not correct again. 71,000 additional square meters have already been installed – inadequate, with all possible planning errors, with poor allocation, with consulting contracts, everything in millions. All of this is happening. The airport has to submit, it is sufficient, the months move to the country, the weeks pass. And now, now in the summer time, the Federal Ministry is thinking: ==References== In July, the Skylink Schwechat report, where the millions have already been sprung, will be published. And then perhaps the citizens have the opportunity to participate in a report. Weaknesses from time to time: from the Lower Austrian authorities to the airport. The taxpayers pay for it, because – the argument of the morning –: Environmental impact assessments, properly handled, bring quality! Environmental impact assessments, properly handled, help save costs! Mr Minister for Economic Affairs – that is your concern! – at last, read the Court of Auditors' reports thoroughly! In fact, it is pointed out that many projects, for example in road construction, but also at airports, in themselves not economically at all, are in no way economic. And with your accelerated procedures, drive with your speculated EIA They are projects that ultimately only give us money concerns that are counterproductive – economic policy, environmental policy, climate policy, democracy policy. You will be responsible for this with your constant emphasis on quality standards, quality criteria, depth of examination, and participation level. This is your environmental policy. – No thank you! No consent! Back to the Committee, in the Committee on the Environment!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27410	Mr Mitterlehner spoke on a point of view. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27431	Mr President. Mr. Col. on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a question of whether or not the resolution or decision of this novel is a question of whether or not, but of whether or not it is both. In my opinion, an accelerated procedure should also be brought into line with environmental quality. It is a difficult balancing act, but I believe that we have implemented this balancing act with measure and purpose. I only take as an example – because it is far too much on your side of the Greens and others far too little on the speed of the procedures now – which has been changed in Germany or in Holland about investment accelerations in the legal field. In Germany, for example, there is an investment acceleration law with the reduction of the claim path to the Federal Administrative Court as the only instance. One could talk about the fact that matter is being changed and that real interests can be expressed less clearly and procedurally worse than we do. In my opinion, we have implemented very carefully in this area. I now come to two controversial points from my point of view, which we were finally able to settle in agreement. One is security of supply as a public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue or the word “safety of supply” has become an appeal. But I ask you, can it be an incentive if we – we are public representatives here – involve the public interest in security of supply in a procedure? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's totally okay!]] This is also the task in this area, and therefore also the consideration of the interests of the legislation on matter. What we have achieved was precisely that the irritable word does not occur in this form, but, like other matter laws – water law, forestry law or the ElWOG – have to be addressed, of course, the interest of security of supply must also be taken into account. What is quite normal, in particular because the Administrative Court, but also the Environmental Senate, has already made appropriate decisions, in which the interest in security of supply is expressed. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Efficiency is the best method of security of supply!]] That is exactly what is pictured here in the corresponding regulation. – This is the one point where, I believe, we have reached quite a good understanding. The second concerns the anchoring of energy efficiency. In our opinion, too, it is an advantage that energy efficiency has not become a K.O. criterion in the field of procedure. This may be very positive for the water sector, for electricity, because one also has essential interests to work efficiently here, but in other areas – think of waste heat, if the voest has a procedure – could also be a very expensive and difficult to implement. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That went well, the... process!]] – I believe that the declaration of environmental impact is now satisfactory. That means it has to be included, but is not an exclusive criterion. Let's get to the improvements. It has already been mentioned several times in the absence of oral proceedings if there are no objections. Ladies and gentlemen, if such a project is prepared for which there is the need for an environmental impact assessment, then it is reasonable that you also think in good time about whether you have objections or not – and not at every stage where the procedure is already under way. [[Abg. May. Brunner: But that sounds like...!]] Second: The conclusion of the investigation procedure in case of decision-making maturity or the turbine exchange referred to – if only turbines are exchanged and nothing else is changed – as well as the monitoring of the proceedings are also expeditious measures, which we support as well as the investor service provided in the amendment request. In this context, of course, the question arises: Is this now a speeding-up of the procedures? - It's hard to estimate. We believe, yes, it could at least be possible to produce the duration of the procedures within nine months or six months for the shortened procedure in view of the greater clarity and optimization. I agree, with averages, that we can easily argue here, but in the final effect there is a lot of procedural possibilities in our view as far as the observation is concerned. In a particular economic crisis, this is also an element that is taken into account, namely: We have 66 projects which are currently subject to or are subject to an EIA procedure. Investment volume: 13 billion €. This is a volume of €2.3 billion for eligible projects in the field of e-business. Therefore: If the new law, the new law, is there, we have a corresponding security in the procedural field, and that alone should be the occasion to submit the projects and possibly to implement them accelerated. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us summarize: The “great throw ” is addressed. This is certainly not possible in this context. If my colleague or I were to talk about it, it would certainly be associated with the fact that rights in one area would remain on the road. That's not the case. I believe that this regulation is a balanced compromise which takes both sides into account. I should therefore like to thank my colleague Niki Berlakovich and also his staff in the field of civil servants. I believe that this regulation will enable us to implement projects that are necessary in difficult times without endangering environmental protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27514	The next speaker is Mr Hörl. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27563	Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if you are so excited today that we in the Economic Committee, attached to the steam boiler law, have dealt with this EIA law, then I even understand you. Only: That doesn't interest any citizen. The result is environmental protection and economic development! They had enough time to come in. By the way, it is time to steal your speciality, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and of the Liberals: the liberals with their controversial President Count and you of the Greens, by constantly promoting the eternal debates, as well as today. This will not be useful at most to your two fan clubs for their own construction. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Mr. Hörl, you must not be hurt!]] This novelle to the EIA law meets both ecological and economic requirements in a balanced form. And I am also pleased that you, Mr Widmann – where is he? – see these in principle positive; although a biterl insults, yet in principle positive. Also, Mr Hofer, I think that procedural delays are a little bit of a shock. Long approval periods are a clear disadvantage of the location, streamlined procedures act as a driving force for the economy. The Austrian EIA Act continues to impose tough, expensive and high requirements on the project promoter, so it is justified to also place high demands on process efficiency. The mix of measures provided for in the amendment will hopefully lead to a significant reduction in the duration of the procedure and is thus a step in the right direction. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Mr. Hörl! Talk, don't read!]] High house! I'm sure if we take away 20 percent of our self-built monster-environmental bureaucracy, it doesn't feel a worm, no beetle, no herbal meadow and no swamp! Today is in the “Kronen Zeitung” – look at this! –: Austria is the world champion in landscape protection. – Let’s take pride in it! If that's the case, I'll ask myself: Do we need this bureaucracy to that extent? Shouldn't we think about simplifying them? I would also like to thank the two environmental spokesmen Bayr and Schultes and also the two ministers and their officials for their work. I believe that this is the right way to our goal, namely the fight for jobs in a beautiful and wonderful country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27616	The next speaker was Mrs Lichtenecker. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27638	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you listen to Mr Hörl, you must be really glad that a Burgenländer is an Environment Minister and a Upper Austrian Minister of Economic Affairs and that not a Tyrolean is sitting there – with all appreciation for the Tyroleans, with all appreciation for the country of Tyrol. [[Abg. May. Worm: Ahjajai? That's right?]] At the beginning, just finish with the fairy tales that are spread here! Dear Christoph Matznetter, the steam boiler operating law, in whose treatment the UVP debate has been mounted, has nothing to do with the fact that it is an operating plant permit law, in no way. It is about the obligation to operate steam boilers and, ultimately, a history of training and falls into professional law. That was not all right in this form! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... § 1 of the Law...!]] Second thing: On the one hand, we Greens have been holding the debate on the EIA-Novelle for years, because there are the Mahn procedures and, on the other hand, since spring, the debate on the EIA-Novelle has been very intense, and of course we have also been represented at the last Economic Committee with our environmental spokesperson and with our deputy clubman in order to debate this and deliver our opinion. This has been clarified here once. [[Call at the SPÖ: That was refusal of work!]] If you look at the EIA-Novelle now, there is of course also an area where we see quite a heavy manko, and that is the system list: Which plants are even in the area of the fact that an EIA obligation exists? I now come to an issue which is always being debated very strongly here in this Chamber, namely, hydropower. – We think the threshold of 15 megawatts is too high. We believe that we must make a reduction here, because, ladies and gentlemen, a hydroelectric power plant with 10 MW in a sensitive area can be much more sensitive than in another area a 15 MW hydroelectric power plant. To be clear, you have to say this clearly: The hydropower in Austria will not save our climate! It will not help us in this form. Why? – On the one hand, it should be concluded that climate protection is always against nature conservation. This is an intolerable story, which is constantly being forced here. If we want to advance climate change in this form, we need two legs: One is quite clearly the renewable energies, and the second is energy efficiency. And if we are in energy efficiency and look at the situation in Austria, I remember that the predecessor of the current Minister for Economic Affairs really told fairy tales in the so-called Plenarrhythm: Fairy stories about energy efficiency in Austria that there is a decoupling between economic growth and energy consumption. All of this is not true in this form. Energy intensity has worsened! Austria is not in the leading field at Weitem! Mr Mitterlehner, there is much to do to advance this very area. And now that energy efficiency has not been included as a mandatory criterion, as a decisive criterion in this EIA novelle, I think it is a serious mistake. I think this is a serious mistake, both from the economic point of view and also from the climate perspective, and I believe that there has been a great opportunity missing, which will also have its consequences here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27698	Next speaker: Mr Steier. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27719	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2009 Environmental Impact Assessment Act, as mentioned several times by my previous speakers, is essentially a response to the infringement procedure initiated by the EU against the Republic of Austria. This was mainly related to the lack of consideration of relevant projects through the case-by-case review with low thresholds and the non-respect of UNESCO World Heritage Sites in the EIA Act. Now – and this has been confirmed unanimously – this gap is closed by numerous additions to the EIA required projects. Waste treatment facilities, hydro-economic projects and industrial projects located in protected areas, for example in nature conservation areas or areas with high exposure to air pollution, are already subject to a single test at a low threshold. The UNESCO World Heritage Sites are now also in the novelle. New is the stronger anchoring of the climate protection aspect by the demand for the submission of a climate or energy concept in the environmental declaration. In Austria, statistically, very few environmental impact assessments are carried out in the European comparison, which is mainly due to high thresholds for the justification of the EIA obligation. In fact, due to the novelle, some 200 acts will be settled in the simplified procedure, i.e. without adequate public participation in the investigation procedure, and only around 40 will be settled in the ordinary procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, will this help to avoid conflicts in the implementation of projects and investment projects? I don't think so. As stated in a study prepared by the UBA on the evaluation of environmental impact assessment, it states: “Satisfaction of apparently conflicting interests can be achieved, especially if, in addition to the authorities, the environmental lawyers and the public concerned are involved in the planning phase at an early stage.” Ladies and gentlemen! Even if we were to make necessary adjustments to EU law that has been in force for years with the EIA-Law Novelle 2009, a deeper discussion in the Environmental Committee responsible for this matter would have been desirable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27762	The next speaker was Mr Neubauer. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27783	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Let me briefly replicate to colleagues Hörl: Mr. Hörl, if someone like you in your own community drives long-standing guests out of the midnight fair and thus makes the whole community a mockery across the borders, then he should question himself in his capacity for tourism – and not the President here! I can really write that to you in the main book! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thank you, Federal Minister, I can tell you: This law is really unworthy of Austria. This law also makes us unbelievable what our environmental policy is going on in the EU. They are doing something too easy with this law, Mr Berlakovich, because considering the position we have in nuclear power, and if such a law is to be applied, then we are going to be unbelievable, even as our position towards TemelÃn, also to the Czech Republic and also to the nuclear power itself, ladies and gentlemen. And that can't be it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By this law, they are clearly the extended lobbyist arm of a group in Austria, which apparently still can judge how it needs it. It cannot be assumed that the small house builder has to meet all the points precisely, from the plan submission to the implementation of the object – and you come here. to submit to them and such a law for decision-making, and this without involving the opposition. I'll tell you why. With this law, they grant a complete fragmentation of a project until it is below the threshold. This has already led to negative effects on the high-rise project in Vienna, which has led to negative effects on the airport project. If projects are no longer counted together, then this is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen, and this has serious and far-reaching consequences. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just think of the extension of Temelín Stage I and II, and now we are facing expansion stage III and IV. If it is now in accordance with our Environmental Impact Act, then these points should no longer be counted together, then it is a whole new project after your diction. So where the logic is, please explain it to me. You have done a very bad service to the Austrians with this of your law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The situation of your logic would also be similar in the nuclear waste storage plant to be built at the Czech-Austrian border. You know our criticisms that we are making against the Czech Republic, and we as the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats – I can now announce this – will bring an action against the Czech Republic next week, namely the second. I am sure that this case will also be accepted by the European Court of Justice, as was the case with our first case. But our position would be more favourable if we did not have such laws. What will the Czechs say about us if we now have such a law, but the Czechs do not comply with the EU directive for EIAs themselves and do not recognise us as a party according to national criteria?- Oh, my God! We do not accept this procedure on the part of the Czech Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Here, under the cover of a procedural acceleration, only one thing is to be done, namely the right of citizens' rights in Austria, and that is bad, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Haimbuchner, Mr Neubauer, therefore, put the following: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you really have in mind the interests of the Austrian population, then give what I would like to invite you to support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27904	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is in a contentious context with the subject-matter of the negotiations and thus with the debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e27990	Mr Hörl spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would remind you of the relevant provisions in the Rules of Procedure and give it the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28014	Mr Neubauer said that I had sent many years of German guests from our parish church in Gerlos to Christmas. - That's wrong! It is true that I have drawn attention to some weird hut owners from the neighboring village when they pass through the sacristy at the astounded parish priest into the church that it is house peace break. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: What was that?]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Home peace break!]] [[The speaker turned away from the speaker's desk, but returned to it.]] It's right that I...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28068	Sorry, haven't you finished? [[Abg. Hörl: Was only a sentence!]] [[Abg. Grill: No, he's not finished yet!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Hörl leaves the speaker's desk.]] You can read that in the minutes. [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Glaser. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28147	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With this amendment of the EIA legislation, we are continuing a step towards the faster and better implementation of necessary projects, and nothing happens that harms our environment, but on the contrary: It shall ensure that important decisions are taken quickly after all concerns and objections have been taken. Some of the concerns, it seems, have a great pleasure to find often bizarre arguments against necessary projects. For example, I looked at the Wattelkönig in the Trautenfels Palace in the Ennstal, for example, because this one at the time prevented the Ennstrasse. In the meantime, this Wagelkönig has also been seen at the S 7 and somewhere in Vorarlberg. No one has seen him yet, but he should be there and there. Similarly, often the arguments put forward by the green side are the same, and often it is also, colleague Brunner, that you know, really personal interests that are being advanced here. I don't think that's all right, especially if it really goes at the expense of the burdened one. For example, I am thinking specifically of the S 7 in the Lafnitz valley, where you, colleague Brunner, are absolutely no matter where thousands of people are on the old federal road! - Yeah, but you don't care, you don't care. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] I think you have to say quite clearly: This is a very elitist concept of democracy that you have of the Greens, partly also the other opposition parties. This has also proved to be the way in which you are working in the committee, because you have been given the chance that your environmentalists would have been there. But you've moved out again! This, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, is superlative in my view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And that's where you have to say: Environmental protection is not the primacy of a party or opposition, but environmental protection is at least as important as all of you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: You can't see that, Mr. Colleague!]] We now also prove this with the decision-making of this novel. Finally, I would like to say: The law that we decide today is good, and it is urgent to decide now. The environmental criteria in this law are a priority. This will facilitate the achievement of Kyoto objectives, including energy efficiency and security of supply. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Mr. colleague, keep dreaming!]] That is why I see no reason why anyone here in this Chamber should not be able to agree to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28215	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Herz. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28237	High house! Mr. Minister! In an interview in the “standard” of tomorrow in connection with the EIA-Novelle, the Minister of the Environment says very openly that “some representatives of industry wanted to tip the environment.” This should not be forgotten, because originally in the novel was a superior public interest in hydropower inside – that is, a one-sided hierarchy and preference of power plants. [[Abg. Head: That's what some people from your camp want!]] And if something is one-sided, Mr Kopf, then there is a second side that is not taken into account, and that is nature conservation in this case. That was the problem. Fortunately, after some irritations within the ÖVP, there has actually been a reasonable path, and the unbridled power plant construction is not possible now – and therefore not the destruction of the last free running waters. In the fifties, sixties, you have already described a similar mistake with the installation, which you have to rebuild with great cost today. You shouldn't make this mistake twice. Notable organizations – therefore I really don't understand the greens in this case –, environmental roof association, for example, nature lovers, Alpine association, workers' fishing communities, which represent 1.3 million people, actually now welcome this stage victory, as it was called, with the support of the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for the Environment. There has already been a balance between ecology and economy. It is good that accelerated turbines can be exchanged at power stations. It is all right if an extension is possible where it is useful. And it is important that it is protected in certain areas where nature needs to be protected. I believe that overall it is an important signal that unilateral interests to the detriment of the environment are not supported here. This signal is important towards lobbyists who imagine it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28273	The next item is the speech by Mr Rädler. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28295	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I must say, Mr Kogler, that even if you are so fond of looking at this time, it is already a frivolous game that has been run by the Greens in this debate. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] It was not very nice to say in the debate that it was a shame to Parliament because this law was dealt with in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and not in the Committee on the Environment. Good. This is a shortened procedure. – I don’t know, do you want to walk to the red now, or what do you have to do? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Don't be irritated! Just keep talking! Tell me what you've always wanted to say!]] Next: Mr Brunner meant we're going over there. - I don't know. Where did we go? You weren't even in the committee! You really are about a view, you want to present it medially as if the EIA only depended on the greens. I'm sure it's not that way! The areas of responsibility are clearly regulated. And I think we have an instrument of order with this novel, with which we can all live in the future. I am here at the Clubobmann Cap, who meant that it is really about the people expecting us to make decisions here and stand for clarity and that we can offer future investors the opportunity not to negotiate a project in long procedures, but in clear and manageable procedures. And of course, that's what the novel of this law stands for. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The clarity can be seen from the fact that at the first instance, at the national level, we have introduced an comprehensible time frame, also at the federal level, and that there will also be a simplified procedure to call on the environment Senate. I believe that all those who have followed the debate today have seen what the opposition is all about and who stands for it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: To the environment!]] That's what we're saying, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28370	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. Also 2 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28391	Mr President. Estimated members on the government bank! High house! This amendment was also necessary, among other things, to strengthen climate protection at the EIA by presenting an energy concept. And: With the UVE, the environmental declaration, the project operator has to present an energy concept. This includes energy needs, planned energy sources, energy indicators and energy efficiency measures. Mr Brunner believed that this would not happen with the novel. I can assure you, it's contained in the novelle. If you had participated in the committee on Friday, after we had been preparing for three days, you could have also discussed it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to tell you the following: Most of the population outside will not discuss the fact that this issue was discussed in the “false” committee, but that the opposition has refused the discussion three times. That's going to be discussed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Are you part of the ÖVP?]] I am convinced that the citizens concerned can and will be able to take an insight into this area in the shortest possible way, including through the Internet. The transparency of the process through publication on the Internet automatically ensures the quality of the projects. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Finally admit that you belong to the ÖVP!]] What is it really about? It is about the balance between economic development and environmental protection. It is important that all public interests such as water and nature conservation, energy supply are treated at the same level. The argument for security of supply should not be a criterion for approval. In other words, the supply aspect is not a free letter for approval. But, and I'd like to say this: I believe that the balance of interests should play an essential role here, especially when it comes to achieving certain objectives, such as the 34 percent of renewable energy that is being sought. I would like to point out that this is not a general prevention law. Another positive aspect with regard to the duration of the procedure is certainly the monitoring of the proceedings in order to determine who is actually responsible for it when it is delayed. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is a very useful innovation and ask for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28462	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall first proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, to refer the draft legislation on environmental impact assessment law 2000 to the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs in 271 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this referral request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 271 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. Schultes, Bayr, colleagues and others tabled an additional amendment or amendment. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I would like to refer to the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment or amendment that has just been made by Mrs Ing. Schultes, Bayr, colleagues. Whoever joins this bill, I ask for a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also decided by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Brunner, colleagues and colleagues on improvements in export guarantee award for ecological, social and culturally sensitive projects. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neubauer, ladies and gentlemen: no nuclear waste storage in the Czech Republic close to the border. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[20:20:01]] Votes on agenda items 9 and 10
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28558	We shall now come to the vote on agenda items 9 and 10. First of all, the present referral request must be voted on. With regard to the draft law in 273 of the Supplements, there is a referral request from Dr. Strutz, colleagues. I shall immediately vote on the draft law concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Code and the Public Prosecutor's Act, in 273 of the Supplements to the Justice Committee. I would like to ask those members of the House who are in favour of this in order to have a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the criminal code, the criminal code and the public prosecutor's law, into 273 of the supplements. For this purpose, the following additional or amendments shall be made: Mr Fichtenbauer, colleagues and others, and Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by these supplementary or amending proposals, in accordance with the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Fichtenbauer, colleagues and Members of Parliament, Mr Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues have each submitted an equal amendment which has a change in the title and index of contents of the draft law and the resulting renumberings. If you are prepared to accept these amendments, I would ask for a sign on this point. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Fichtenbauer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment to Article 1(74) para. 1 point 4a of the draft law. I call on those Members of the House who give their approval to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Magn. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues, who also referred to Article 1(74 paragraph). 1 point 4a of the draft law. Whoever joins this request, I ask him for a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Mr Fichtenbauer, colleagues and Members of Parliament, Mr Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen have each submitted a similar supplementary or amendment, which has the following supplements or amendments to the content: the introduction of a point 10a in Article 1, amending paragraphs 11, 12, 15 and 16 in Article 1, the introduction of a heading in Article 2 and amending points 1 and 8 in Article 2. Whoever gives his approval to these supplementary or amendments, I would like to ask for a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on and received as part of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 274 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[20:25:19]] 12. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (159, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on External Legal Relations of the Evangelical Church, the Federal Law on Financial Services to the Old Catholic Church and the Federal Law on Financial Services to the Israeli Religious Society (256 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28704	We're coming to the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28731	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At its last meeting, the Teaching Committee dealt with several applications, including three dealing with Church and State. A request was made by Mr Stadler with the aim of abolishing the church contribution in his form of duty and on a voluntary basis and providing for a dedication of purpose for the contributions. In other words, the donor can then also say what the funds are to be used for. In addition, Mr Stadler's request calls for the removal of the possibility of complaint and execution. This request has already been discussed in the context of a short debate here in the House. We have already raised legal concerns about the form which was introduced at the time, and Mr Stadler himself has supported and requested the delay in the Committee. I assume he's going to comment on this today. The second point to which we should vote today concerns recurring achievements to churches and religious communities. It is primarily about the Evangelical Church, the Old Catholic Church and the Israeli religious community. As a result of National Socialism, churches and religious communities were virtually stolen from their entire wealth from 1938 onward. Austria has committed itself in the State Treaty of Vienna to the legal status of before 13. It is not possible to make financial replacements, either on March 8, 1938 or where this is not possible. In order to implement this commitment, the asset agreement with the Holy See and the existing legal regulations were created in 1960, which were previously valorised five times. Valorization takes place if the loss of value exceeds 20 percent. This amendment aims at the legal implementation of the inflation levy by reducing the monetary depreciation effected between 1996 and 2007, which is exactly 23.95 percent extra costs. These additional costs amount to € 284 372 and are already taken into account in the 2009/2010 Federal Estimate. It is also important to note that the present benefits are not subsidies but legal obligations as a substitute for income that cannot be generated anymore due to the loss of assets. A third area will continue to occupy us this year in relation to the Church to the State, in the wider sense. In fact, the Coalition Convention agreed that there will be a survey on ethics teaching, and there will be a central question as to whether the school tests for ethics teaching should go out or what form of ethics teaching should be finally introduced. I believe that this is a great challenge for us, and I therefore invite all interested Members to participate in this survey. Another area, which was also dealt with in the Teaching Committee and which was assigned to its own Subcommittee, deals with the National Education Report. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to this National Education Report, which is really a lexicon for every person interested in education, anyone who is interested in education or, although only in the worst, has to do with education. He is indeed an important achievement for political discussion, for our daily political business in education policy, and I am already looking forward to intensive discussions in the relevant subcommittee. [[Abg. Neubauer: What topic are you talking about?]] Not only do I want not only the coalition partner, but in particular also our minister not only to the National Education Report, but also to the successful agreement that it will finally be possible in Austria to organise the mature exam centrally, to ask the questions centrally, says: congratulating the introduction of the central matura. I think it is another important milestone to have central requirements for the Matura in addition to the school standards in the fourth and eighth levels. I am convinced that this will increase the studyability of our young people and also bring objectivity. I am pleased, and I very much congratulate the Minister for this great success. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28768	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28789	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Today we decide to increase almost 24 percent or adapt the state contributions to the Protestant Church, to the Old Catholic Church and to the Israeli religious community. This percentage, this adjustment corresponds to the already contractually fixed increase in payments to the Catholic Church, which has been necessary since 1996. As we all know, from 1938 onward, churches and religious communities were virtually taken over by the National Socialist regime. In the State Treaty of Vienna, free Austria has committed itself to restoring the legal status or to providing financial replacement. The asset agreement with the Holy See and the legal regulations for it were created in 1960 and has since been valorised five times, with a valorization only due to a loss of value of 20 percent. In this context, I think two points are particularly worth mentioning: first of all, the fact that the additional cost of approximately €284,000 for this adjustment, which has become necessary, has already been taken into account as own budget items in the 2009/2010 budget estimate. Secondly, this is not a subsidy, but a legal obligation as a substitute for income which could no longer be generated due to the loss of wealth. I should like to ask you for your consent and would also like to ask Mr Strache for his approval, but he is not present here, as has been so often in recent times. [[Abg. Kickl: You're here for that!]] I'm sorry that he, who seems to have discovered the religious now, is a Neo-Firmling, who is not present on this ecclesial topic. But it's not that way. He may have been here for two and a half hours today, but he calls himself Klubobmann. They have spoken of FPÖ today, as so often, about the dignity and reputation of the House, but if a clubman is there so little, then he gives himself a blush. But you won't care. But it's not good for the High House. Let us take a look at the committees he is in! [[call to the FPÖ.]] He's only in the main committee. So it would be good if he paid back two thirds of his salary. He has been in the Vienna municipal election campaign for months, during which he is driving around in the city, at some sausage stands or in discos. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28832	Next, Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Fixed speaking time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28853	Mr Lettenbichler, one can criticize my colleague Strache a lot, but if a Member receives a sacrament late, but still another, then one should not make that ridiculous – especially from the ÖVP. This is one thing you should respect. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We will agree to this law because it is a correct adaptation. There are, I believe, no differences in opinion at all. The postponement of the requests made by Mr Mayer was therefore important to me because negotiations are under way with representatives of the Roman Catholic Church on the question of the possibility of dedication of the Church contribution. Now I say very soberly: No matter where it is said, the Catholic Church should not be worse than an association with regard to the complaint of its membership contributions, although – and that is the clasp of argumentation – in a Each member of the association through democratic participation in the institutions can ensure how the funds are managed, who manages and spends them and how these expenditures are controlled. You can't do that in the Roman Catholic Church. This is why the comparison with the club is somewhat deficient. Conversely, it is said that the Catholic Church should be stopped to widen the scope of dedication and not, so to speak, to reduce itself to what is in the Ordinary Mainstream. So if one is willing to reflect the full range of opinions in Catholic bondage even in the ways of dedication, then it should be so that the complaint is also maintained. If that is not the case, then I am really in favour of eliminating the complaint. Believe me, there is hardly a levy that is so unpopular as the church contribution, and there is much even the Catholic Church itself to blame for being so. [[OBJECTIVES]] So it depends on how ready you are to talk about broadening the ways of dedication. A final sentence to you, Mrs Bundesminister: One person or another will wonder why this is discussed at all in the teaching committee. The background is this: because the Federal Minister for Culture is responsible. Now it's a department that's almost never noticed in the ministry. It's a department that doesn't really belong to your ministry's career-like departments, if I can make it elegant once. It is a very quiet ball that you push there, because basically the whole is only formal acts that take place there. But you've made it a habit to take things too easy. Ladies and gentlemen, it has now been said here in the direction of the Roman Catholic Church: All church contribution requirements in recent years, if not even decades – I have not examined how far back-reaching it is – but at least all church contribution requirements within the limitation periods do not have sufficient legal coverage. Why not? – One has made it a habit to take only more note of church contributions in the Ministry of Education in the Department of Cultural Affairs and not, as stated in § 3 para. 2 of the Law on Church Contribution from 1939 provides to approve it. Now you can say: This is an unnecessary formalism! But that is how it is in the rule of law: An approval, ladies and gentlemen, is not a notice! If I need a building permit, it is not enough if I inform the mayor and his wife of the construction project and say: This is what Mr. Mayor and his wife discussed at home with Kipferl and coffee! The mayor took note of it anyway! If Mr Bezirkshuptmann has to grant an operating permit, it is not enough if Mr. Bezirkshupt has taken note of the project. It's the same with the church contribution orders. Mr Mayer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, still speaks of approval, and the amendments must also be approved. But nothing will be approved – for years and days! After all, yesterday I represented such a case in front of a District Court and I know: Since year and day only more is noted. And the bishop of Linz – I want to say it elegantly now – has not been afraid to present the document where it is inside I would say that the Ministry has approved it anyway. Then I said, Where's the permit? – Then came the answer: Yeah, I'm aware of it. Ladies and gentlemen, taking note of it is not approved! That's why I'm saying: If the Church wants to be hard on its own, I prove that the church contribution regulations have not had a sufficient legal basis for years and days – at least within the period of limitation. We will also go up to the courts of public law, if it is hard to do so, to prove that we cannot handle it in such a sluggish way, even in the ecclesial field. If we demand money from people, at least the legal bases must fit. Otherwise, no one in this country has to demand anything. If one is forced to demand anything, then the legal bases must also be in line with the law. Otherwise, there is no basis for compulsion. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I appeal to the ladies and gentlemen of the ecclesial representative bodies to be precise when one gets into the bag with the citizen – also to you, Mrs Federal Minister, because you should also take it more precisely in the ministry. If the citizen is put in a bag and then he is still interested in procedural costs on the way of execution, then the legal bases must be in place. But they don't fit right now! Therefore, my appeal, especially to the Roman Catholic Church, to be reasonable and to take into account the fact that one must also provide a certain width in the possibility of dedication. If you go hard, you can also have it hard, but then I prove to the representatives of the Church that they have not had a legal basis for compulsory collection of church contributions for years and days.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e28964	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would ask that at least one sentence be given on the matter. [[Abg. Jarolim:... with what Mr Stadler said? We cannot ignore what Mr Stadler said! How do we deal with this?]] [[Abg. Singer: We take note of it!]] The next speaker was Mr Walser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29008	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr President, I assume you will be pleased that I will be the first to comply with your wish and say at least one sentence to the existing law: We agree. It's, I think, a clear matter: The Republic of Austria is essentially only fulfilling its contractual obligations, so it is no question to me that we Greens are, of course, “on this ticket”. However, an exciting discussion has been made just before, Mr Stadler, because these considerations are clearly understandable, and I believe that we have to consider in total what the relationship between the state and the church is going to be, perhaps even more fundamental: We are in favour of a clear separation of state and church, but at the same time we are of course also in favour of not hindering the work of religious communities in this country, but, of course, of course, also being supported where it works positively. Nevertheless, it is quite clear that a grey area has occurred here, and we all have to ensure that the legal provisions are actually enforced. The basis of this law is, by the way, the State Treaty, and on it is also sought, Article 26. In this context, I should like to remind you that, not least, we Greens have repeatedly advocated the real implementation of this State Treaty, and, in this respect, Mr Stadler, have You may be less happy with my remarks – I would of course also like to remind you of Article 7, which has not yet been implemented. [[Abg. Kickl:... free association!]] These are the rights of the Slovenian and Croatian minorities in Austria: in Carinthia, Burgenland and other federal states. The topic of ethics teaching would of course also be exciting! I do not want to make any further comments on this as Elmar Mayer did, but I am looking forward to the corresponding debate, because here too, at the heart of this question: What is the task of the state and what is the task of religious communities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29048	Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Schmied spoke on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29069	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to take a brief look, Mr Stadler, at the fact that we are going to discuss the subject of church contributions in the teaching committee. On this point, I can only say that the proposal for a law has happened unanimously to the Committee, which I am very pleased about – this is a legal adaptation – and I am sure that the good order will continue to bear in mind that the additional costs, rounded the € 285,000, have already been taken into account in the Federal estimates for 2009 and 2010. – Thank you for your broad support.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29100	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29121	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comply with the President's request and briefly address the matter of these laws. The changes are intended to adapt the state contributions to the evangelical Church, the Old Catholic Church and the Israeli religious society to the devaluation since 1996 – it has already been mentioned that, in accordance with Article 26 of the Austrian State Treaty, churches and religious societies are compensated with these recurring benefits for the withdrawals of assets held by the Nazi legislation. For the implementation of this obligation, the asset agreement with the Holy See and the current legal regulations were created in 1960. In 2007, the new desire towards the Republic of Austria was asserted, due to the change in monetary value in the way of negotiation which has taken place since 1996 increase the fixed amount accordingly. These negotiations led to the signing of a sixth additional contract in March 2009, and this amendment is aimed at the legal implementation of this inflation bill. The amount was already mentioned at 23.95 percent, and this corresponds to the already contractually fixed increase in payments also to the Catholic Church. I would like to say once again that this is not about subsidies, but about a legal obligation as a substitute for revenues which could no longer be achieved due to the assets that were withdrawn at the time. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister and congratulate her on the National Education Plan. And as an AHS teacher, I welcome the central matura as an important part of the educational reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29166	The last speaker to speak was Mr Stauber. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29188	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! On this point, it has already been mentioned all the important data on content. I would also like to express my positive opinion once again that this point should be adopted unanimously in this House, because it is really just a implementation of a law, an inflation tax, and no subsidies to religious communities. A word very briefly to Mr Stadler, who made the request to abolish the church tax in the Committee and that we should not complain about what happened: I think you are quite right that this would fit a lot of people, but I think the request, as you have put it now, in this form, is not quite that one could accept it at once. There would be a lot to discuss, but we are quite prepared to hold this discussion. I think that at the moment he still has a lack of substance, and he is also a bit unconstitutional, but in the discussions in the Committee we can still bring it, and then, I think, we will come to a unanimous decision. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29221	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 159 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also unanimously adopted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:4:00]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 660/A by Mr Mag. Christine Muttonen, Silvia Fuhrmann, Mag. Heidemarie Unplatzer, Stefan Petzner, Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues in a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Price Binding of Books (298 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29287	We shall now proceed to item 13 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Muttons. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29315	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about the book pricing law – to be precise: an adjustment of the law that was required after a judgment of the European Court of Justice. In a judgment of April of this year, the ECJ found that the import arrangements need to be amended in order to ensure that there is no competitive disadvantage for foreign book providers. The new regulation applies to all economic operators wishing to sell books in Austria, thus ensuring equal treatment. In short, books imported into Austria should be treated in the same way as books moved in Austria in the future. The main objective of the scheme is to ensure books as cultural goods. This has a large impact and means that the diversity of the publishing and book landscape in Austria is protected, thus ensuring that the population is provided with books. An incredible range of books from all areas is offered when you go to a bookstore – from beletistics to counselors and specialist books to children's and youth literature – and it is indifferent whether you live in the city or in the country: Also in the most remote places it is possible to buy books at the same price! The sale of bestsellers and often requested titles requires less concern, but in works, especially in the field of quality literature, many authors depend on the fact that their works can be moved and offered away from economic pressure. The award ceremony enables publishers to avoid risks with the proceeds of bestsellers while supporting new authors and literary experiments at the same time. Thus, a price battle can be avoided on the back of the publishers and bookstores. Ladies and gentlemen, without book price fixing, which has been indirectly confirmed in its core as an instrument by the ECJ, the diversity of the domestic offer of German-speaking books on the market would therefore be at risk. That is why it is all the more gratifying – we have already found in the Committee on Culture – that all parties represented in the House support the proposed adaptation, so that we can bring it in as a five-party request. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add another point, which is currently very busy for all of us, namely the water damage in Albertina: It is really a great happiness – and I believe we are all very happy about this – that the art treasures have not been damaged! Now, however, it is important that complete and rapid examination is made of how water can break down and where the errors lie. [[Abg. Petzner: And how do you want to do this?]] The ball is now with the responsible headquarters team, which has begun to explore the causes as quickly as possible and as thoroughly as necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29351	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann speaking. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29373	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My previous speaker, Mr Muttonen, explained exactly what the book price fixing is all about, so I can take a very short look at it. The model of book price fixing has become apparent, and this shows the ECJ judgment, despite all this proven. In other words, the ECJ judgment did not question the model of book pricing as we have introduced it in Austria, but merely stated that adaptations are necessary as regards the equality of importers and foreign publishers with national publishers. This means that foreign publishers will have the opportunity in future to recommend a final selling price for the Austrian federal territory and to respond to the Austrian market conditions. The Austrian model of book pricing is in principle the right way, I would like to stress once again, and I am therefore very glad that we have managed very quickly to come up with a good solution with all the actors concerned to present the law today. As my previous speaker said, I think that the most important thing is that we keep the goal in mind or put it in the foreground, and these are the cultural diversity and the preservation of the structures of book trade. As far as the opinion on Albertina is concerned, I can only fully agree with my colleague, Mr Muttonen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29410	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Inconsistency. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29431	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying that in adjusting the law, all parties could agree on this solution as quickly as possible in the sense of the Book of Cultural Goods. The value of books is a very special one: One can not only measure it materially and economically, but of course it is also a spiritual and a cultural good. The present regulation continues to protect this value and also allows foreign publishers to determine and determine the last selling price. This is important because we have a common language area with Germany and many books or a significant part of the books come to the market from Germany, which is of great importance to us in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, it is also appropriate to point out that, as you all know, large chains dealing with books and operating almost monopolistically are restricted by this law in the course of price dumping. With this innovation, the publishers and thus also the authors are given the opportunity not to waste their books or to have them put on the market under their worth. I've already mentioned the book as a cultural asset. – Under this premise, the intervention into the market system, which constitutes book pricing, is to be welcomed, although this must already be admittedly lost economic opportunities for all those involved in the value chain. The setting of the book price on supply and demand as well as the possible price struggle among the publishers and bookstores is undermined, and this ensures that even small and unknown works have an opportunity to publish – that is what my previous speakers have already mentioned. In short, the innovative regulation continues to include the protection of books as cultural goods as a requirement of general interest and takes into account the interests of foreign publishers and domestic importers in this objective. . We welcome this price policy and therefore welcome this innovation. Since my previous speakers mentioned the Albertina, I also do that – I think the topic will concern us even longer –: I think it's going to take some time until we really know everything and solve it all. We know that the things that are in the Albertina include some of the greatest arts of humanity. It is really important that we clarify this, but also – that is crucial! – that we draw the consequences so that such a scandal can never happen again.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29480	The next speaker was Mr Petzner. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29501	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The issue today is actually a five-party request, or there is the five-party agreement after a judgment of the European Court of Justice of 30 July. On April 1, 2009, Austria has to make a new regulation in the field of book pricing. There is the five-party consensus that the regulation that is now being taken is in order and thus the objectives, namely the protection of books as cultural property and, above all, the protection of small booksellers and small entrepreneurs outside, are ensured. That is to say, this regulation, as it stands here, is out of dispute and is carried by all five parties, and thus of course also by the BZÖ, by the Alliance Zukunft Österreich. – This is the one theme complex that is out of dispute. If you talk about the protection of cultural property, then the books are protected, but in the “Durer-Hasen” for example – I always ask the question: Where is the “Durer Rabbit”? - I'm not so sure. I am therefore at the Albertina theme complex, where I say at the outset that I already feel it strange that all previous speakers mention the Albertina complex in their statements, but on the part of Parliament's management, a corresponding request from the BZÖ concerning the establishment of an internal investigation commission in the Federal Ministry to clarify these causas was rejected with the reference that this was not the subject or the subject of today's proceedings. I think this is a bit strange and I would like to hold it here. In other words, I cannot put forward this motion for a resolution, but like my previous speakers, I would say at least that this is the case. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] ==References== In June 2009, the Albertina informed the public that water had penetrated into the main storage site of the Albertina. There you argued very carefully and spoke of a water damage. Little later it turned out that it was not just a water damage, but – I quote Schröder, director of the Albertina – a flood-like water intrusion, which subsequently led to the immediate total evacuation of 950 000 works of art, including the Dürer-Hasen, works by Rembrandt, Rubens, Schiele and so on. This evacuation is running, it is still not completed until now, because – and this is the second peculiarity in this Causa – the high-tech system, the high-technology in this depot, which has cost over €5 million, has prevented the evacuation, since the power supply was put out of battle by entering the water. That means you have built a depot of €5 million in which it rained – and no one is responsible for it, no one knows what's to blame! One has to evacuate the invaluable works of art, even because the robot system is tricking itself – and no one is responsible! No one is responsible for this unprecedented scandal, for this waste of sponsor money and tax money, everyone cleans himself and says: I have nothing to do with it! I also found with Mrs Mutten that she wants to shift responsibility to the mayor, and that is to say, to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, doing what everyone else is doing, namely referring to the others, but not wanting to bear any responsibility. That can't be it, but it must be explained this Causa without any rest! We therefore call on the BZÖ to set up an internal committee of inquiry, which will review all those responsible. From the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the head of the museum, the building supervisors and the building contractors to the construction companies, all belong to the buildings, all of them illuminated and held responsible in the case of the case. If it has to be, the director must also resign there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is not unusual, but I would point out that four years ago there was a similar incident in the Tiroler Landesmuseum, a water entry that was associated with the immediate consequence that the entire board of directors, the entire management of the Landsmuseum, had resigned. This national museum still has to fight with the mold there today. At the Albertina one tries to cover it up, the public wants to misinformation and hide the whole thing. It can't be! In order to protect these priceless works of art and also in the interest of taxpayers and sponsors, a comprehensive information must be provided. I call on you, Mrs Minister, to arrange these immediately and to meet your responsibility as Minister of Culture accordingly. I trust and hope you do. [[Call at the SPÖ: It is always the same with you...!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29551	Mr Zinggl. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29572	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is all said that we need, I think, to mention nothing in addition to this proposal for a law. The Chamber of Commerce and also the officials of the Ministry have done all the work there and the necessary protection of books for the next years, I would say once, guaranteed, or we all believe that it is guaranteed. It's like this: Five years ago, on the very day five years ago, we decided on the book price fixing. Five years she's kept more or less, and now she needs to be innovative, maybe again for five years. I don't remember one thing in the whole action. I wonder if we could not have been a researcher with the ECJ, for a simple reason. The UNESCO Convention provides a much greater protection of the cultural heritage than it is now more or less represented by the ECJ. The ECJ argues: A book is not only cultural goods, but also goods. In my opinion, however, the UNESCO Convention is not fully interpreted, because it applies to all cultural goods. That's the same thing with the movie. Each cultural property is either goods or services and would then be subject either to the GATS or GATT agreements and thus to the rules of the free market. But there is the UNESCO Convention, and it would contradict it to almost 180 degrees. To play harder would have been important in order not to make similar judgments follow in the future. Furthermore, in the context of the opinion that Mrs Ferrero-Waldner would not be the ideal Director-General of UNESCO, because she represented this liberal economic course of the government of Schüssel – in the “time in the picture” interview she spoke of the colleague as a “Bundeskanzler” Schüssel – and thus represented exactly the opposite of what the UNESCO Convention suggests to us. I don't want to talk about the lack of protection of a theater group at the Genoa demonstrations. A final sentence on Albertina: It's going to be checked, okay, we've heard that now. And that's all good and beautiful. But who's checking? – It checks the main team of the castle! In my opinion, however, the main responsibility for what has happened is the Civil Society team. It examines, as it were, the one who is really responsible himself. I think that's the wrong procedure. I would ask you, Mrs Minister, also to examine somehow the links to the responsibility of the Head of State in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29605	It has now come up with Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29627	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Law on the pricing of books is being modernised; this happens very quickly, and it happens through a five-party application. This is important, and I am delighted as Minister of Art and Culture. It is about the diversity of book trade, and it is about the cultural property book. As I said, I am very pleased that this broad agreement is successful. A few sentences to the current Causa, to Albertina: Mr Petzner, we have also talked about this in the Committee on Culture. For me it is out of dispute, first of all it is about securing the works of art, safeguarding the treasures of art. In this respect, I have also switched on the Federal Monument Office, which is now the current storage, the intermediate storage, if I may formulate it in such a way, that this also happens carefully and that the valuable works of art do not happen. The second point is that I agree with you, Mr Zinggl, and with you, Mr Petzner, we need complete clarification of the causes. We need that for a number of reasons. This is what we need for insurance reasons, we need this for reasons of liability, and, of course, thirdly, because we have to answer the question of the future: How's the depot going? How will safe storage take place in the future? I can only assure you that my ministry, the headquarters team, the Albertina, the Federal Monument Office are now in regular, daily contact and exchange and that I am fully behind it. It is now not a question of personal debt allocations, but it is now a question of complete clarification of the causes to make the right decisions for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29663	Now comes Mrs Mag. Cup with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29684	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! I would perhaps like to join with my previous speakers in so far as: They all expressed their joy at the rapid treatment of the book pricing law, and I also think it really went very quickly. At the end of April, this ruling of the ECJ was passed, and today we adopt or adopt this new law unanimously. This also shows the high level of responsibility of all members of the Committee on Culture. The provisions of the ECJ judgment shall be handled as follows: For the books published in Austria, the local final selling price will be fixed by the publisher, and for the books moved abroad, the importer will be bound by the last selling price recommended by the foreign publisher for Austria. With the maintenance of book pricing, the diversity of the local publishing industry and the support of the smaller publishers is also ensured. As far as Albertina is concerned, I would also like to say a few words about this – although the Minister has already explained that a rapid and complete investigation is necessary. I think crisis management has worked very well here and is running very efficiently. The Minister has already reported on this in the Committee. Experts are currently working on careful test drilling... [[Abg. Petzner: So if the professional crisis management was, I don't know...!]] Absolutely, Mr. Petzner! That's absolutely professional. There will be a report, because it is of all interest to the fact that this is quickly and completely clarified. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Petzner.]] If the causes become known, an external opinion is also planned after the internal investigation has taken place. Then you'll see that. [[Abg. Petzner: We will look at that too!]] These measures, which have been launched, ensure that they are quickly clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29742	Mr Pack is now speaking with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29764	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! On this subject, it must be noted that there is a consensus in all the institutions of the European Union on the fact that books are not only a commodity but also cultural values and guarantee freedom of expression and freedom of teaching and research. Not only in Austria, but in most EU Member States there is therefore a price fixing of books. The Austrian model was used many times as a model. As mentioned by my previous speakers, there is the conviction that only price-bound books can ensure that the number of publications of books is not reduced and cultural diversity is preserved. Publishers are encouraged not only to publish successful commercial books but also to bring culturally valuable smaller editions to the market. In addition, pricing in particular ensures a comprehensive supply of books to consumers, as a higher number of bookstores can claim to be on the market. Price fixing will enable smaller and specialized bookshops to survive on the market in particular. The price fixing is important not only for dealers and publishers, but of course also for writers. If there was no bond, some young writer and some young writers would have even greater problems finding a corresponding publisher. We have always known that the whole history of EU competition law is problematic, especially when it comes to securing common areas of language. In the final effect, this was also the reason for the creation of the book pricing law in 2000. Mr Zinggl has already mentioned it. It was not today five years ago, but tomorrow five years ago to get that to the point. [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: That was not 2000 but 2004!]] No, I said five years ago. In 2000 we started with this for the first time, and tomorrow five years ago we recorded the book price fixing without notice. We have always said at that time that we need to look at Brussels and see how the situation develops further. At that time, we were still hoping for a directive that would allow us to impose prices on common languages. Now this judgment has come in a different way. Nevertheless, by acting quickly, we have continued to allow importers and publishers to be equal, thus truly to be able to prepare the market for Austria and to create fair conditions for both foreign and domestic publishers. I would just like to say one thing to Mr Zinggl: The reservations he has towards Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner must be rejected. It is certainly best suited for the task she has applied for!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29798	Mr Jury is now speaking. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29822	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! I'm not talking about the Albertina, I'm talking about the book. As regards this book pricing law, it is contrary to Art. 28 of the EU Treaty, it is good that there has been a five-party agreement to place this law on a broad basis and to ensure book pricing for the future. But when you talk about books, you also have to talk about reading. There are latent weaknesses, latent weaknesses of our youth. [[Abg. Grosz: Also by Members!]] There are EU surveys on Austrian pupils from 2000 to 2009. In 2000, it was shown that ten-year-old Austrian folk students could not read meaningfully at 14 percent. This percentage has increased by one third over the last nine years to 21 percent. That's where the alarm bells shriek for you! [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Minister! They are not only ministers of culture, but above all also ministers of education. I would like to congratulate you on your initiative of the New Secondary School, which will address this problem. There is a ‘G’riss’ around New secondary school, and if you know in Carinthia that you started with five classes in 2008, have 60 classes in 2010 and will have 80 classes in 2011, then this is a success story. Mrs Minister, I think you agree with me when we start an initiative in autumn to remove the 10-percent limitation of this New Middle School, to get the ten-year-old youth into the New Middle School and to drive this Austrian educational reform for research.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29862	Next, Mr Sacher, speaking at a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29884	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! This does well if you have such a consensual agenda item today as the book pricing law! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, I should like to congratulate all of us, especially the Federal Minister, on this joint success. It's not that way everywhere, ladies and gentlemen! In California Governor Schwarzenegger wants to abolish the schoolbooks, or he's already done it. In Austria we go to God thanks to the opposite path: We do everything we can to promote and preserve the book as a cultural asset. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Arnold would do that...!]] I just picked up a few headlines of the past few weeks that were found in the literature landscape about our literature and about the books: Bachmann Prize for Jens Petersen, Graz Literature Award for Alfred Kolleritsch, Bruno Kreisky Prize for the political book for Robert Reich, women.Literatur.Preis der Stadt Linz Linz für Angelika Reitzer – just a few headlines around the book, around the literature that proves what high importance the book has with us, and as a pedagogue I say: also in schools! I can also agree with the colleague Jury here: We must do everything we can to promote and increase readability. Especially a well-functioning book market where the reader receives a good, fair price for high quality, is a concern to us with today's law. This helps to maintain the importance of the book as a cultural property, and to maintain it, especially for all. Finally, I can congratulate Mrs. Dr. Schmied on dealing with the problem of Albertina. Mrs Bundesminister, we do not want to give a preliminary ruling here. The opinions will show: Perhaps it's technical failure, maybe it's a technical scandal. But one, my colleague from BZÖ: Let's not talk about a political scandal, as you might try! This will prove true culprits will be found.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29926	Mrs Mag. Aubauer. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29948	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied mentioned it and also my predecessor: the book as a cultural asset. Do we even need books today – in a digital world in which we all probably spend more time in front of the computer than with a book in hand? Yeah, I mean, we need books more than ever. Why? – Because books stimulate our imagination, because they can comfort with words, because they delight because they wake up memories and because books – which is especially important; that is already true – expand our vocabulary. In times of e-mails and text messages a large and indispensable plus. That means for me there is no either-or: either computer or book, but both. Both have benefits and appeals. It is an extension of the possibilities – and not a restriction. Why do I do that? – Because the cultural goods Book also has to survive economically and be financially secured. It is therefore a new regulation of price fixing. We need fair prices for the authors, for trade, for the publishers. There we all agree – and that's a nice thing: We want to maintain and preserve the wide range of offers in our bookstores, our excellent books.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e29984	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30005	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We all agree: The book price fixing in Austria ensures the diversity of the offer. A study published by the main association of Austrian book trade shows that most books in the German language area are read with over 11 titles per year in Austria. According to the Internet and television, the book is third-place as the most important medium of the respondents. However, reading screening tests at the fifth school level show that not all can read comprehensively – and in contrast to the BZÖ, we do not believe in reading funding only between 10 and 14 years of age, because reading screening tests show us that reading funding has to be carried out especially in the folk school age. In the People's school age is a common school, and we see in the fifth school level that there is already an adequate need for re-examination and further efforts. Whatever we need is a further development of the funding tool for the publishers, in addition to the existing funding, because indirectly it was always the case that more possibilities were given to Austrian authors through the school book publishing system; the school book is an indirect improvement in the common cost structure of the school book publishing. As we know, as a result of mergers, many school book publications are no longer located in Austria, but are also internationally. All the more so, for the Austrian publishing industry – in addition to the existing instruments – I would like to see further development of the funding. I know that this schoolbook funding tool is not in your department, Mrs. Federal Minister, but I think we should consider what measures it is possible to continue to leave the cultural springboard of Austrian publishers in Austrian hands, so that the Austrian language variety and the Austrian culture can continue to be promoted independently – in addition to the German-speaking offer.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30054	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 298 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:25:03]] 14. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (219 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Security Police Act and adopting a federal law on the establishment and organisation of the Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption (300 d.b.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on the Interior of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 243/A(E) by Mr Harald Vilimsky, ladies and gentlemen, on the information obligation of the Office for Internal Affairs to the persons concerned (301 d.e.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30118	We now come to points 14 and 15 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Vilimsky's speech with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30151	Please, don't laugh: I was not lazy somewhere, but in the committee. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President. [[Abg. Riepl: How's the left toes? Healthy again?]] – Fine, but we can talk about it outside in detail. Today, we are in a situation where corruption is a broad, important issue and where, from our point of view, it is also good to take appropriate measures, to create appropriate authorities or structures to combat this corruption in the best possible way. But what is now being set up, namely a Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption Prevention, is not, in our view, the great throw that we would have expected. We would have imagined a genuinely independent and non-profit-making authority consisting of financial and judicial investigators as well as executives; Investigators who can follow all suspicions accordingly and operate without political control. We have also proposed that there is an assessment competence, namely that it is up to us here in the House to be able, as elected representatives, to control the activity of such an authority in a committee set up for this purpose. However, this has not happened in this way. Nevertheless, an office has been created to combat corruption and combat it. . In this respect, we will therefore not deny our consent to the liberals. In this context, however, there is also a matter to be considered, from my point of view, with great concern, that this – still! – The Office for Internal Affairs is to be transferred to this authority and Mr Kreutner is in charge of this Internal Affairs Office, with all of us in the Committee of Inquiry having experienced, or has been involved in, Mr Kreutner's activity, acting independently and possibly in a party-political manner. And now it's almost in the room that this Mr. Kreutner is supposed to be the head of this setting-up authority. We liberals have made the request that all those people – all politicians in particular – who have been against the BIA since 2000, at least in the post-war period, should be informed of the fact that they have been identified against them. We have heard in the investigation committee that a supposed list of politicians against which the BIA has identified should exist – but to this day we do not know what accusations against which politicians were identified by the BIA and what all of them were documented. That is why we believe it is very important for these people to be informed, at least in post-democracy and in a clean way, that these politicians have been identified against them by the BIA. That was the subject of the request, which is also the subject of the debate here; a request that your majority has not yet found, but everyone can become smarter – and perhaps you give your democratic heart a boost, a back and agree to it, so that at least those people, those politicians, who may not have been made in a more sham-like way, will have the right to be informed about it in retrospect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30194	Mr Kößl is now speaking with a desired speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30215	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vilimsky, these are suspicions and accusations against Mr Kreutner, who have not been confirmed in any way. In general, one has to express clearly and clearly: This is not a takeover of the BIA in the sense, but rather the establishment of an independent Federal Office to combat the abuse of office and power, as well as the prevention, prevention and control of corruption. At the same time, however, the Security Police Act must be amended in order to meet international requirements and obligations. In line with these international obligations, this unit of organisation is to be set up, which can also fulfil these tasks. The new Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption will thus be a successor organisation for the BIA and with 1. January 2010 is a supplement to the corruption prosecutor's office. ==References====External links== January 2009 installed, and we know very well that, in the context of court proceedings, the Public Prosecutor's Office is approaching the police to carry out such surveys. And in this area, in the prevention of corruption and in the fight against corruption, the new Federal Office will be used to support it, or it will be installed in addition to it and then also directed. The Authority shall be bound by the Ministry of the Interior; this shall be done in the same way as the Public Prosecutor's Office, in which the Minister shall also have the final decision to take. It must be made clear clearly and clearly that the legal protection officer, who is installed in the Ministry of Interior, is included in the installation of this Federal Office. It is clear that the legal protection officer will have the Quasi control over this new Federal Office. I believe that we have very, very good experience with the legal protection officer. The decision that is now being made is very important, and the installation of the Federal Office, I think, will lead to the satisfaction of all, regardless of who is in charge of this Federal Office as Director.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30262	Now comes Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30283	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We reject the Federal Office now planned to combat corruption, because in reality nothing other than a turn of doors: The BIA is getting away, and it is now different, something with “corruption. ” The structures remain the same, and the errors of this office remain the same, Mrs Minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller.]] If you look at the call criteria for the head of this new Federal Office, that is like the CV of Mr Kreutner. [[Abg. Grosz: That's it! Post chess!]] The call for proposals is tailored to the training, function and CV of Mr Kreutner. What you're doing here is a Kreutner extension action – with name change. They are not called BIA 1 to BIA 10 – they do not speak with first names there, but with numbers; Mr. Kreutner is BIA 1 – but they probably now call K 1 to K 11, which also sounds very good, or KB 1 – that would be even better – until KB 11. Mrs. Minister, what you are doing here does not correspond to the intention of your predecessor. Because your predecessor, Platter, has come to realize very precisely which “authorities” – between quotation marks – he actually has to carry as a burden, which does nothing else and is there for nothing else, but to be the extended arm of the ÖVP and to stifle opposition politicians. [[Abg. Grosz: A Hydra!]] That is the truth. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller.]] For years, the BIA has been staggering opposition politician – from the Kärntner Landeshauptmann down to BZÖ politicians in Carinthia. That's what I'm going to give to Mr Vilimsky. Put it on the table, what happened! Until the last weeks and months in which opposition officers were also monitored without knowing that, without withdrawing immunity, without making a request on justice, but the BIA has simply carried out phone records of delegates' phones, of opposition officers. [[Abg. Grosz: But not really? Unbelievable!]] That's a huge scandal! And Kreutner is now rewarded with a new office. That's incredible what's happening! Mrs. Dr. Fekter, you're gonna be fine here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Investigation Committee! That's incredible!]] But don't make the bock a gardener by entrusting the previous BIA chief who has had these methods to this function. Come now Again with the excuse: We are only acting on behalf of the judiciary! – Mrs Minister, you must not act on behalf of the judiciary, if it is wrong, but your authority must also assess what she is allowed to do and what she cannot do. [[Abg. May. Stadler: She must represent it...!]] And you have it to represent. If Members of this House are illegally persecuted, monitored, illegally collected phone records, and what else do I know, then this is a scandal that you need to clarify before you even start installing such a new authority. That's what we ask of you, Mrs. Minister. [[BZÖ and Abg. Mayerhofer.]] You can also have all of this in writing. I have the entire act of calling data, the illegal collection of telephone records by Members of this House. I'd love to put this on the table. They also want to create an authority which is not independent at all, with a commitment to the Minister – and they themselves decide who will become the head of that authority. There is some advice that can be given to his mustard, but the Minister makes his decision. After five years, the head will be ordered, and I really wonder: Where is the non-binding, the independent authority? - Nowhere. This office is again the extended arm of the ÖVP, and we reject it quite extremely and decisively, Mrs Minister! We don't accept that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] All this is confus. There is a corruption prosecutorship that is not at all linked to the new authority. There is only bureaucracy created, but in reality that does not matter. You will therefore understand that we do not, of course, agree today. However, we agree with the FPÖ's proposal, which we think is reasonable. That also corresponds to our intention. If you are a politician of this house or others, we want to know at least that, because then we can see if BIA 1 to BIA 10 is sitting somewhere in our backpack, standing in front of the apartment or standing in front of us with a telescope – is everything possible – or whether our mobile phones are being heard again, how this happened in a case that I have also called you, Mrs. Minister, and where I have been looking for information by you and about which I have already informed the prosecutor's office. That's not how it is! As long as this is not clarified, you have the damn duty to take care of order here and to read Mr. Kreutner once the Levites or to draw other consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30421	Mr Pendl is now speaking. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30442	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At least those who were here, Mr Grosz, know what we and I have personally criticized here in recent years, namely that the office, according to our opinion, was not based on any legal basis. Mr. Westenthaler, I rarely experienced that the preparation for a law was as intense as it was in this law: a long review period, all experts invited, internal experts from the Federal Service, also external. Rarely, I can say, so much has flown in here. Ladies and gentlemen! At the last five-party meeting, we have still received wishes, which have in fact been positively assessed by us. So now to stand here and criticise this new Federal Office so, that is not fair, Mr Westenthaler, I tell you, because either you do not want it or you have not looked at it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What do you say about the intrusions?]] This office has a proper legal basis in accordance with the new organisational structure. There is a much improved legal protection that accompanies the entire process. We've never had that before. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's where you're going!]] We must be careful not only about the whole public service but also about it, Mr President. It is now the case that there are clear laws. This is not a matter at all, I say in public, but we cannot have any specific rules for each department or authority. We have five years of awarding time in the top range. This does not have to do with Parliament or with a Parliamentary aid body, which is a normal service, and we also wanted to know how to deal with it in the same way as all the other departments. We have a clear structure there: There is a director and an alternate. On the basis of a request expressed in the party discussion, we have still received the proposal of the Director's hearing on a call for tenders, all of which are based on legal basis. So, in summary, I can say: This law has been discussed on a broad basis. A few days before the Committee, a five-party meeting took place. I would also like to make it quite clear that we have also agreed in this party discussion that we are enacting in our law precisely the provisions relating to the Procuratorate of Corruption. We also said it could be very late. Everyone was for it. For this Federal Office, we have not only taken over a very limited possibility of directions one to one from the public prosecutor's office, but have also taken over other points. As these have been completed so late in the field of justice, I now have to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can invite all of you to give your consent to this proposal and to this amendment. I believe that this is an excellent Federal Office, which will surely fulfil its task in the interests of the Republic, but above all also of our citizens. I do not wish to know what the calls will be made, to the one who will be in charge, and to those colleagues who will work in this office already in advance a lot of success, a lot of creativity. Criticized is easy, colleague Westenthaler, but someone also has to work.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30529	The amendment just tabled by Mr Pendl has been explained in his broad outlines and will be submitted in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GMOs are distributed to MEPs and are therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30638	Next, Mr Pilz, Mr President, will speak with a desired speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30675	Ladies and gentlemen! I can only be caught up in the enthusiasm of Mr Pendl. Yeah, it's right, it's good that there's an office. An office is always better than no office in Austria. However, I do raise certain concerns. The call has not come from the leaders of the Austrian anti-corruption – to which I do not necessarily count the Minister of the Interior sitting behind me – but the call has come from the OECD, the Council of Europe and the United Nations. What did the ÖVP do to support the SPÖ? – An office with individual teeth, which will have relatively little room on the leash of the minister. The Constitutional Service – and this is the most important point for me – has pointed out that there is now no constitutional provision that guarantees freedom of guidance from the anti-corruption office and has urgently called for such a constitutional provision to be incorporated into the law. They have not followed the Constitutional Service and know as well as we do that the first appeal will come either from the OECD or from the Council of Europe or from the United Nations. None of the three will say we've done our homework, but you've allowed something to fight corruption because you didn't have to allow everything to fight corruption right now. The problem is a double one: We're missing laws. The authorities will continue to be able to combat corruption only to a limited extent. We do not have reasonable laws for the fight against corruption in party funding. It is still legal in Austria when the ÖVP washes donations via the Industrial Association. If it were to do so in the Federal Republic of Germany, a penalty of three years would be imposed on it due to German criminal law. Austrian companies that make public contracts are still allowed to pay donations to parties. Public companies are still allowed to pay donations to parties, and so on and so on. There is a list of a Swedish scientific institute on the sharpness of anticorruption legislation. Austria is located there, for example, on a level with Bangladesh. There is no European State comparable to Austria from the legal level of anti-corruption. Now we get the Federal Office, and behind it is an ÖVP minister who has so far shown that she is ready to do a lot to fight corruption only if it works either against the SPÖ or against the FPÖ or against the BZÖ. We are leaving it at least until now, because there has been no occasion for us as the only party to date. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pilz! Who's been looking into your computer, too? Remember!]] When it comes to the ÖVP, the short leash of the Minister is likely to be applied. This, of course, makes the whole story quite difficult, because in the last ten to fifteen years about 80 to 90 percent of politically motivated corruption cases are clearly attributable to the Austrian People's Party. That is to say, the majority of the fight against corruption will fail the Minister of the Interior and her law, her control right, her human rights and many other rights. The corruption attorney will work hard, and it will be very much up to Parliament to enable the work of officials and officials to be done in the Ministry of the Interior by exercising its control rights. This is the only thing I would like to say to the Westenthaler and also to colleagues from the FPÖ: No, it's not the officials in the Internal Affairs Office. Apart from two specific cases, a case without any political reference in the Styria and the so-called TIWAG case in Tyrol, there is no reference to targeted false identification by officials of the Office for Internal Affairs. I have been expecting from my colleague, Mr Westenthal, for many months now that he is finally putting the evidence for so-called targeted illegal telephone surveillance on the table. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Already on the table!]] If these are on the table, I am, of course, prepared to talk about it here in Parliament and also talk about consequences. But to condemn officials first and then to say that we provide the evidence, Mr Westenthaler, that has no connection with the rule of law, nor with the fight against corruption on the part of the Austrian People's Party. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30738	Next speaker: Mr Hornek with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30760	Madam President. Highly esteemed Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Our common goal must be to make Austria the safest country in the world. [[Ironic cheerfulness with FPÖ, BZÖ and greens.]] A major contribution to this will be the Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption. The Federal Office will work closely with the corruption prosecutorship in order to combat corruption effectively. However, the fight against corruption must take place early. The Federal Office will therefore also do intensive preventive work to combat corruption at its roots. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are one of the Pradler Ritterspiele!]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the new Federal Office for Corruption, we will have an excellent facility at our disposal. We now have a powerful institution in Austria, which can work in this area. The Federal Office will be the central national liaison body for police cooperation with similar international institutions, because international crime must also be combated by cross-border cooperation. The The Federal Office will always take action when crimes occur in the field of corruption. In addition, the Office may be entrusted by the Public Prosecutor's Office or by the Court of Justice in the case of offences relating to corruption. The Federal Office will also be responsible if the staff of the Ministry of the Interior make themselves punishable. In order to ensure the necessary transparency, a special Commission, which is also the member of the Ministry of Interior's Legal Protection, will be set up to monitor the necessary activities. Ladies and gentlemen! This law is an important mosaic on the way to the safest country in the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30802	Mr Rosenkranz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30824	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Hornek first said that Austria should be made the safest country, that the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs has concurred, since she has mentioned it more often. Welcome to the capital for car thieves – “Kurier” of tomorrow: “It is stolen as never before.” – So it seems that the “safest country” or the vision you are carrying is looking forward to. That's where I have to say, you're obviously a little blind before reality. But there is at least one effort here that we will also support, namely the establishment of this Federal Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Corruption. There have already been some doubts about this, namely the suspicion that it is only an institution, that it is an office that replaces the BIA seamlessly, not only as a substitute for another, perhaps better or better legal basis, but also as a human being. That's what we're very excited about. There are suspicions – and they have also been said – that a tender directive is already provided in the law alone, which will also be presented to the former head of the BIA as future head. I think one will see if that will actually be the case, or if all of this has been just pure, pure light-seeing of the opposition, if it happens to be really Mr Mag. Creetner should be. I do not think it is because the text of the law is contrary to that. The text is that the head can only become someone who has worked for five years in a profession for which the degree of law or economics is a professional prerequisite. And officials or contract- In principle, it is not something where you need to study, but rather the classical legal professions. The fact is that it will probably be difficult to argue. The Federal Minister – and that would in itself be something really nice – was asked by Mr Vilimsky and others to announce who was identified against. That's not a question we want to put on a law now, but I think it would be a good thing if you said, if the BIA was dissolved: We complete the chapter BIA. For this purpose I am willing to announce this and that. I am in favour of a transparent authority, and that is why I inform you. That would be a request. In the Federal Republic, with Stasi-acts, it is made there. And it shouldn't be with us? I believe that this would be a state-of-the-art and democratically valuable position you could take here, which we would then praise from our side.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30875	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is now speaking with a desired 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30896	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The new Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption is not a one-to-one successor to the BIA, Mr. Rosenkranz. But I am still glad that the criticism points of recent years have been fruitful and that we are putting the Federal Office on a legal basis today with this presentation. This has always been a criticism of the SPÖ in recent years, that the BIA has not been based on any legal basis. Who the We all do not know today that we will become the head of this Federal Office. I think that even the opposition party on this side can't know today, otherwise it would have hell-seeking abilities. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: I do, Mrs. Colleague! I'll tell you!]] The structures have also been explained relatively precisely, and I also think that there will be a continuous transparency, because written calls are needed to start investigations. This is a significant improvement compared to the present state. A major improvement is also the establishment of the Legal Protection Commission, which I am very pleased to see as a SPÖ member, because in the future the Legal Protection Officer will certainly make the investigations even better and more transparent. The Federal Office is obliged to support the Legal Protection Commission to provide this information, and in this case it will not be able to carry out its duties, and the Legal Protection Commission will have no instructions, but it can work completely independently. And precisely these points are great improvements compared to the previous state. The Legal Affairs Commission will be able to make recommendations to the Federal Minister and there must be an annual report to be discussed in the Subcommittee of the Interior Committee. Part of it will also be accessible to Parliament, to all of us. That means that we will all be able to talk about it and discuss it. I think these are clear improvements to the BIA. The Federal Office and the Legal Affairs Commission will do good work, I am convinced. There is greater transparency, greater legal certainty and, above all, there is also a committee that ensures that everyone concerned can contact the Legal Affairs Commission. I think I'm a good law, and invite everyone to agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30933	Next speaker: Mr Hagen for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e30954	Madam President. Minister! High house! I have to make it fast, three minutes, we don't have much time. Therefore, I would just like to take a look at the organization of the anti-corruption authority and Mr Kreutner, I would like to say once and tell you why Mr Kreutner is not suitable for the post. And now I'll explain to you how the BIA works. Ladies and gentlemen, you know the case of the police officer in Vorarlberg, who is supposed to have mistreated his colleague. And this police officer has been sentenced, better said, it has been determined. The BIA let this be – not a criminal offence – handed it over to the LPK Vorarlberg, which then determined. Suddenly, then, a criminal offence was committed. The fact was that LPK Vorarlberg failed to detect it. The official concerned was disturbed in court and acquitted on all six points. The prosecutor brought an appeal, the whole thing went to the Oberlandesgericht in Innsbruck. And there's something coming up, an e-mail from an official who saw that this official was wrongly accused. I then asked Mrs. Fekter in the Committee on the Interior whether it had been properly identified and why this has not been done by the BIA from the very beginning. She said it wasn't a criminal act behind it. And at the Oberlandesgericht Innsbruck this new proof of discharge has not been approved. I saw the mail myself. I then asked the Minister of the Interior why the BIA did not determine this. As a result, the BIA suddenly started to find out again. And now the Krux is coming up: The BIA found out, questioned those discharge witnesses who sent this mail that showed the accused wasn't. So, now the BIA has been investigating, the whole thing has recorded. And what didn't it do? – The accused officials who were supposed to have committed this body injury, only as witnesses, did not agree as accused, and the victim was not even accepted. Now the defective result has been sent back to the prosecutor's office in Feldkirch. The same prosecutor, who made the appeal there, because it had to be a political judgment, had the whole thing stopped again. That means that was all for the cat’s. – This is the work of the BIA, that is the work of the Lord Kreutner, and that is why this person is not suitable for this function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31001	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Kapeller. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31024	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! – I have a hard time, my dear colleague, Mayerhofer, but, my dear colleague, Hagen, you made it even harder for me. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: You have a hard time, gal?]] I didn't fully understand this now, but be it around; let's do this. I do not know exactly why on this issue everyone is shooting at the current head of the BIA. No one knows whether he will be appointed as the new head of the office or not, but I would like to tell you now, Mr Westenthaler: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bets? Do we want to bet?]] I personally understand that, as a legally condemned Member in this House, you have a problem with police investigations, with the judicial system and thus with the rule of law. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very cheap!]] [[Abg. Booker: Don't you have anything else?]] I don't want to suggest to you the resignation, there are others, but I understand your intention that the police, the justice, the prosecutors, even the BIA, even the Creutner are not all your friends. I understand, but whether You are really right here, the right representative to pass laws on this rule of law, I would like to question that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's what the voters decide!]] Because it is always spoken of by the Office and because the evil at this office is the continuous authority of the Minister, I must say to you, Mr Pilz, that: I believe that if an illegal instruction from the Federal Minister to the colleagues in this office were to be given, the officials would act in the same way as the B-DG does. [[Abg. Grosz: We had this already in the thirty years of the last century! Angelbert Dolfuss!]] [[Further call to the BZÖ:... determine who is sitting in Parliament!]] The officials will not accept an illegal order, but they will not follow it and immediately report to you so that it can go to the newspaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31144	Mr Mayerhofer is now speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31166	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We will vote in favour of this Federal Office and this law, subject to the right to the person in question. In principle, this law is the way towards the desired direction, so there is agreement. So far, so good. We may be excited how effective this Federal Office will be. Of course, the success of this project is largely related to who is in charge of this Federal Office. Thus we would be at the “Lord K.”. For example, if already in the ministerial draft of the XXIII. A period of law is printed in which only the blood group is missing, and then you automatically come to Mr. Kreutner, then this is an impertinence and a naughtiness that seeks its own, dear friends of the ÖVP, whoever has staged that – perhaps the one who wants to have the office. It will, of course, be associated with a much higher salary, so it may also be that he strives to do so, Mr Kreutner. This is possible, of course. But it could also be that his closest friends want this because he does certain things for a particular group especially precisely. I say now that this procedure already carries in it the germ of corruption. [[He-Rufe des Abg. Hornek.]] - Yes! And that's not good. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If this harmful tendency has been rewritten into the now valid template, then, I must say, you lack the necessary fingertips, and if you believe that the opposition is falling down this naughtiness, then you have been seriously mistaken. Mr Kreutner is a creature – and that must be said – the most unsuccessful Minister of the Interior that this Republic has ever experienced. After One I believed, nothing worse can come, but nevertheless, and this man has born those creuts and has been raised into these offices. – We would like to say that too. An old peasant wisdom says: Like the Lord, so G’scher! That's why I don't trust this man anymore. That's what I want to say. [[Abg. Grosz: “As the Lord, so his G’scher!”...!]] - Yeah, you know that anyway. We are all well anchored in the people and in the people, where these sayings still have and will be pronounced. The person in view should rather look around a job at the ÖVP. He might feel even more comfortable there. If I may make a comparison: This man is suspected of having committed, as I should say, a gross failure to do so, but that was all without consequences, complete and complete. No disciplinary attorney, no media have turned on, nothing at all. But the little cop is wearing a wrong uniform jacket, and you're going down to the Disciplinary Commission, with $150, gell? They've been able to do that. They were still in a position to do this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to express here the hope and am good things that this new office is truly a great opportunity to keep away from the economy the great damage that corruption has done in this country, and has added value abroad in so far as the security authorities, if we are able to fight corruption crediblely, would gain substantial credibility, and they really need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31220	Mr Mayerhofer, I would just like to say: There is agreement here, also because of the comments made in the Rules of Procedure, that the word “fragil” is not used here in the hall. I'm just paying attention to that. In the event of a repetition, I would also resort again to the means of the call for order. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Yes, yes!]] The next speaker was Mrs Lueger. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31252	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to point out why we have this template here on the table: Because the activities of the Internal Affairs Office, whose head was Martin Kreutner, were the focus of the attention of the last committee of inquiry. There were a number of criticism points and activities at the time, and the main criticism was actually the lack of this clear legal basis. Now we are trying to end this state with this template. At the same time, international anti-corruption requirements are also met by the establishment of an independent body to effectively prevent, prevent and prosecute corruption. The Federal Office itself is supposed to work closely with the central prosecutor for the persecution of corruption. The internal compositions, e.g. the appointment of the Director and his alternate, have already been discussed in detail. I would like to comment on the blog that Mr Pilz put on the web this morning, in which he writes: "Although the Constitutional Service has required a constitutional provision for the freedom of instruction of the Office, the Minister of the Interior remains hard." At the same time, in your statements, you repeatedly refer to what the OECD and the European Commission require and what the Constitutional Service requires in its opinion. I would like to quote something from the opinion of the Constitutional Service. On page 3, the preliminary remark states that it is a security authority that is “to achieve the necessary independence while maintaining the political ultimate responsibility of a supreme body”. – So Mrs. Minister is very well in the boat. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Read on!]] Secondly, you always refer to OECD. There I can read to you: ‘Whatever ‘independence scale’ is sought is not recognizable.’ [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Read on!]] It is necessary to ensure independence, and the undue influence must also be assessed in the state itself. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Read the complete text!]] – If I were to read the full text, my speaking time would have been exhausted at Weitem – you know exactly which area I am referring to, namely, independence, and you are referring to that too. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Read the paragraph from the Constitutional Service!]] – This is the paragraph of the Constitutional Service concerning independence. I also think you should always stick to the truth in your blog. I believe that this law has a good chance to create legal frameworks. That is why we will vote in favour of this draft law on the part of our group.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31342	Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti is now speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31363	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to take a supplementary look at the reporting point. I think it is very important that there is a reporting obligation and a reporting right. This must always be filed in writing, i.e. if a crime becomes known, it must be reported in writing and no federal official may be prevented from reporting a suspicion or accusation to the Federal Office directly and outside of the service. – I think this is very important. To my previous speaker, Mr Hagen, I would like to say that precisely because you mentioned this example, there is now a Legal Protection Commission with a legal representative and two members. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] That's very, very essential. But because a Member before me – I believe, Mr Rosenkranz, that was you; You've gotten this a bit ridiculous – about Vienna as the capital for car thieves has spoken: Our fellow citizens also have a little self-responsibility. Now let me give you an example: In Graz, a few days ago, three houses from my third floor opened an apartment at lunchtime. All were very excited and horrified. Then I asked for a little bit. Why was it so easy for the thieves? – The door was open and not locked, although there is a lock! That's when I'm wondering: Should we put thousands of police on the street, or should we not be a little more careful ourselves?- Oh, my God! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31423	Mr Plessl has now come to speak. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31444	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! As some of my previous speakers have already said, we are taking an important step together here and today in the fight against national and international corruption. In the international corruption comparison index of 2008, Austria is in the safest place Among the top 15 of 180 states – exactly in the twelfth place – and in the European comparison among the top 10 – of 31 states exactly in the eighth place. Nevertheless, we are determined to implement the international anti-corruption rules as best as possible into national law. Therefore, today's decision to recast the provision of anti-corruption law in combination with the corruption prosecutor's office and the establishment of the Federal Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Prevention under the current item on the agenda also constitutes a coherent package. The new office will be established throughout the country and will be responsible for preventing, combating and preventing corruption. At the same time, the Federal Office will cooperate closely with the central prosecutor for the persecution of corruption and thus lead the fight against all forms of corruption efficiently and decisively. In addition, through the simultaneous establishment of the independent and procedural legal protection commission, we also create greater legal certainty and prevent arbitrariness and abuse. Any person concerned may contact this Legal Protection Commission. This protection mechanism has been established by a committee. In my dual role as mayor and parliamentarian to the National Council, I am very glad that today's decision to recast and clarify the anti-corruption rules is being made. I do not want politicians, colleagues here, ministers, state secretaries, national leaders and so on to be routinely condemned, criminalized and suspected because of unclear legal definitions of individuals. Today's innovation eliminates this ambiguity and replaces it with clear and transparent rules that do not have to hide an international comparison. Therefore today is a bad day for corruption and a good day for the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31491	Now comes Mr Mag. Stadler. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31512	Madam President. I address you first and foremost. Today, by the speech of Mr Westenthaler – and I was also new to the case – we have heard that the public prosecutor's office in Vienna on 14 November. August 2008 has illegally monitored Mr Westenthaler's phone records with regard to all text messages, all telephone calls, inputs and outputs. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: As a witness!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Scandal!]] It is not about calling scandal, but I say that this ministry obviously has no new in Kumpanei – that is not new – with the public prosecutor’s office – nor is that new –, obviously even approved by a judge – even that would not be new – no genius has the reputational data collection of a Member of this House, because opposition representatives do not carry out sanctions without a corresponding extradition without the corresponding withdrawal of immunity. [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter, with the Abg. Amon speaks) Listen, Mrs. Minister!]] Mr Westenthaler learns this officially – not somewhere between door and Angel, but officially! ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website [[Abg. That's a scandal!]] – To this day, Dr. Schneider has not tried to answer at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not an answer!]] Madam President, following my speech, I will now hand over this letter from Mr Westenthaler to Mr Dr. Schneider – in front of the whole House – and I would ask you to protect the rights of the opposition members of this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[He also welcomed BZÖ and FPÖ, as well as representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If one believes that one can eliminate the right of immunity by agreeing only as a witness to a Member who is determined, even though he is actually treated as an accuser, that one can only depend on being a witness, then unless it is a case of immunity, then the game has taken place, ladies and gentlemen, for then in the future, as long as one wants to act against the law, a Member is treated simply and simply as a witness. Then you can do everything, and if you have enough together, you treat it as an accused person, and then you first approach Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I say again and again, this is another proof that the right of immunity against the opposition is being used, ladies and gentlemen, High House! It is once again a proof of this – I say this now in the direction of the Austrian People's Party – it is again in your area – as the right of immunity is used at the expense of the opposition, ladies and gentlemen. Get rid of it if you use it like that! We can bet on it if it only serves to combat the opposition, ladies and gentlemen, the High House! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] All of this shows the abuses in the Ministry of the Interior. That's not new either. I have once had another Minister of the Interior from another group up there and I have shown him what kind of sauna he had together. But now nothing has improved. In the meantime, it is no longer possible to even pioneer Members illegally, ladies and gentlemen. This has a new quality. Stop that!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31641	Mr Stadler, I would just like to say at this point that I always believe that I am achievable for you – and for all other 181 Members – to do everything to ensure that the laws are complied with. I can't do anything if I don't know. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now you know!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I don't throw it before you either!]] [[Abg. Grosz: (in the direction of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter) That's where the failure is!]] I just wanted to hold it at this point. Now I know. But it sounded a little as if there had been a lack of time on my part, and I want to make that clear at this point. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Were you even a Member of Parliament during this period? When was the investigation?]] [[Abg. Grosz: August 2008! That's incredible! "Was it even a parliamentarian?" That's the defense? Now you're going from the government bank...!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No, but you can still know facts! You can know the facts! I wanted to know when that was! I didn't know when that was!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The next speaker is Mr Pack. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31759	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Fighting the abuse of power and the prevention and prevention and control of corruption are important tasks. I think all the previous speakers have underlined this very thick and bold. It is necessary that the fight against corruption includes not only past sins, but also preventive measures in advance. This proposal for a law takes account of this intention. The new Federal Office will receive this task and will not only become a purely aid to the judicial system. The public is particularly interested in the activities of such institutions. This draft therefore includes, by my previous speakers, a legal protection commission. This Commission may act outside and in addition to the current legal protection system. There is a full independence of this Commission, which can perfectly control the activity of the Federal Office and thus fulfil its mandate. With all the emotion that has now emerged briefly in this debate – you will clarify everything – it is important, I believe, that both the SPÖ and the liberals as well as the ÖVP agree with this law, because it is a correct and important step in the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31792	Mrs Fekter came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31813	Dear High House! Madam President. On the allegations which Mr Westenthaler has just raised against me, I can only say: He showed me a letter a short time ago, perhaps six minutes ago, in which the public prosecutor alleged to have arranged a telephone record against a mobile phone to be assigned to him. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In the Committee on Travel!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I only have a cell phone!]] I cannot verify this now, since I have only learned this in this clarity today, but I can assure you that the immunity of the House is also highly appreciated by my investigative officers, and I can assure you that, as a former Member, I know what is associated with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31863	The next point is Mr Obernoster. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31885	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The submission to the anti-corruption law is on the table. We know she's been looked through by all the experts, all the opinions have been brought in, she's been in review. I say quite honestly, I trust this law and hope that it will be approved here today. It protects us from abuse of power and power. I think that's the most important thing; everywhere, only people work. I am, in fact, very surprised about the discussion that has been held here today, especially from this emotional side, also from the opposition parties. To what Mr Westenthaler has just said – Mrs Fekter has just replied – I would just like to say: I myself have been, as I have said, a Member for three years, and something has always been quite clear to me: that my life and all that is connected with the mandate of a Member of Parliament play in the shop window and everyone of me can know what I am doing, where I am or what I am talking. [[Interruption calls at BZÖ, including Abg. Scheibner: Where did you come from?]] Why I am so surprised by the Lord Westenthaler just now, I would just like to say that His party was always the one who said: [[new calls to the BZÖ]] Every Member must be glass, the party must be glass, you should see everything. [[Abg. Stitch: A Spitch State! You want a tipping state!]] But that doesn't mean that this thing... [[Abg. Strache: You want a marginal state! What's this announcement? That's incredible! This has nothing to do with a democracy that you do best!]] I didn't say I liked it. I didn't say that! [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't care what you want! It's a joke! That's great!]] - I didn't approve of that!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e31962	Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to be moderate again! [[In the case of the ÖVP for the Abg, leaving the speaker's seat. Obernosterer.]] Mr Pilz spoke with a desired speaking time of 1 minute.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32002	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! After the just said it will be a track longer than 1 minute, and this for a very good reason: No one will give me a deep political friendship with Mr Westenthaler – who dares to do so, he will have to do with me – but nevertheless, I will just tell you what I have experienced. [[Cheerfulness in Greens, SPÖ and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Keck: Was that a dangerous threat now?]] When I allowed myself to publish the relevant e-mails of the former Minister of the Interior Dr. Strasser – that is, the abuse of power in the greatest possible style in the Ministry of the Interior – the prosecutor wrote a letter to the Office for Internal Affairs, and officials were so nice to give me a copy of this letter. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Jö! Ah, that's how it goes?]] I also gave him to the Minister of Justice. This letter reads: The prosecutor calls on the Office for Internal Affairs to refund ad that he has the opportunity to order the seizure of my computer. But please do not make the office responsible for internal affairs, but the prosecutor. In the case of Mr Westenthaler, who should be very carefully examined, we must also look at how a prosecutor can apply for such a measure and how a judge can approve it, because this is a problem that we have experienced several times, a problem which is obvious. The court finds out against a Member of this House, obviously from different political groups, that he is not leading him as an accused person, but as a witness, in her opinion it is wrong, in my opinion, because it is an accused-like status - the immunity procedure and looks at it coming to the computer, to the phone, to something else from the honourable Member. [[Abg. Grosz: But as witnesses!]] [[Abg. Grosz: This can happen to any of us!]] [[Abg. I can't believe it.]] And this is not a private problem of Mr Westenthaler or of me or anyone else, that is a problem of our house. [[Abg. Strache: This is a house problem!]] [[General condolences.]] I never understood that beyond all accusations to BIA or prosecutor or judge, we didn't even say: We urgently need to discuss how we can protect the important control activities of Members of all political groups so that the confusion of witnesses and accusers and some others – let us say so – does not create confusion of very difficult situations which we cannot bear! I urge you to discuss this as soon as possible, because our control activities, as I believe, are just as important – not more important, not less important, but just as important – as the control activities of editors and editors who are rightly protected by the secrecy of the editors. – This is the one point we urgently need to discuss. Second only the completeness in the direction of the colleague of the SPÖ: The Constitutional Service has written two opinions. In the first opinion, it is said – and you have not quoted that – that I have referred to it several times in the committee and in all the public, I quote: However, ‘from this question of ‘independence’ is the concept of independence in the sense of freedom of guidance (Art. 20 B-VG). A simple legal exemption and thus a breaking of the link of instruction to the Federal Minister is only subject to the conditions of the Art. In paragraph 20, point (b) is replaced by the following: 2 B-VG; in addition, the constitutional arrangement is required.’ And now comes the recommendation from the Constitutional Service, quoted by me: “The present draft should be revised against this background” – i.e. a constitutional revision in order to allow for this break-through of the link of directions based on the Federal Constitutional Act and to exempt the Office. This is a recommendation from the Constitutional Service, which the Federal Minister – from her point of view probably good, in my view less good reasons – did not follow. That is also the reason why I believe that neither OECD nor the Council of Europe, nor the United Nations will agree with the current law on decision-making, and we will get this proposal back to Parliament again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32128	Mrs Fekter came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32149	I now have a brief information about the fact that there has been a call data recovery. Westenthaler said in August 2008. She has been ordered by the prosecutors, and colleague Westenthaler was witness and not accused. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: illegal!]] The defendant was a police officer. . I will immediately talk to the Minister for Justice about whether the Immunities Act should be re-adjusted in view of this situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32189	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. May. Donnerbauer) You would make a call data collection with a witness? Is that right, Mr. Justice Officer?]] – Mr Westenthaler, please let us come to the vote. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Security Police Act and adopting a federal law on the establishment and organisation of the Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption, including the title and entry into 300 of the supplements. Mr Kößl, Mr Pendl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment to the amendments tabled by Sections 4 and 5 of the Rules of Procedure. 2 refers. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Members Kößl, Pendl, and colleagues. Whoever gives him the consent, I ask for an important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its 301 report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[22:33:01]] 16. Point report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (160 D.B._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Contract Service Act 1948, the Legal and Public Prosecutor's Service Act and the Federal Staff Office Act (278 d.b.) 17. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Request 670/A by Mr Fritz Neugebauer, Mr Otto Pendl, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Servants Act 1948, the Federal Law on the establishment of a Bundespensionskasse AG and the Pensionskasse Act (1. Service law-Novelle 2009) (79 d.a.) 18. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Federal Law, which amends the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Contractual Service Act 1948, the Law on the Legal and Public Prosecutor's Service, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law in the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Laws on the Law in the Laws on the Law in the Laws on the Laws on the Law in the Laws and the Law in the Law in the Law in the Law in the Laws and the Laws and the Law in the Law in the Laws and the Law on the Law in the Law on the Law in the Law in the Laws and the Law in the Laws and the Law in the Law in the Laws and the Law in the Laws and the Law in the Law in the Law in the Laws and the Laws and the Law in the Law in the Law in the Laws and the Law in the Law in respect of the Law in the Law in the Law in the Law in the Law in the Law in respect of the Law in respect of the Law in respect of the Law in respect of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Pension
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32256	We now come to points 16 to 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Windholz. I put the clock at 2 minutes, as desired, but I would draw attention to the fact that your group's total residence time is 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32287	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Agenda items 16 to 18 will be approved. I'm allowed to go into it very soon. Finally, a field described as a grey area is actually regulated: the use of information and communication technology, the use of Internet and e-mail – so far a grey area. In this regard, the text of the law reads: “Principally for service purposes only. ” The word “principal” means, of course, that exceptions are permissible. There will be a regulation setting out detailed principles of use. This is absolutely welcome so that there are rules of play for public servants as well. It is also very good to take precautions so that it does not result in excessive and disproportionate control by the service provider or is held back. For the field of the state teachers the opening of the Bundespensionskasse takes place. This is a first step, which hopefully a logical second will follow, namely that a transfer will take place for all the national teachers to the Federal Service. I have made a request to the Minister for Education concerning payment amounts of overtime for a school year. – There is €193 million, but only for the German teachers; for the national teachers, they could not provide any information at all. I think this is a condition that should be terminated as quickly as possible. I can still look into the new possibility of caring for a disabled child living in the common household until the 40 is completed. In the case of a person who is close to his family, the pension scheme shall apply in the case of a pension scheme. This adjustment also applies to ASVG insured persons. Finally, I should like to make a very brief comment because the Minister is there: We need a new right of employment and remuneration as quickly as possible and urgently as possible. I should like to ask you once again about this speaker's vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32335	Mr Pendl is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32356	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A clarification on the previous item on the agenda was also received: Twice, at least not for long periods, we have sent a letter to the Court of Justice on the President to inform the judicial authorities of the immunity law. Those who were there all know that. It's like it doesn't matter who's hit it right now or who it's about. I would urgently ask, and on behalf of my group, I also ask - we distance ourselves - that we clarify this question, because I believe this is about the House, here is the reputation of all the Members of this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Complementary with SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Now on some point or other in a short time. First of all, I would like to thank everyone very much, very much, for the outcome of the negotiations – which is the basis of the social dialogue. It was a difficult trial, I say. I am glad that, in this ICT matter, even in the light of the Data Protection Council, that is to say, separation has also come to this legal certainty of telephonery, a common service provider. I think that's in everyone's best interests. In the Constitutional Committee – for the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment – we have dealt with the improvement of care in the family from the age of 3 onwards only in the case of ASVG insured persons. What goes down completely – and that surprises me; I congratulate you once again, for I think that is to the delight of many –: There is the first federal law that is opposed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Whoever has done this, has agreed to negotiate, the Federal Staff Representatives Act – I also congratulate you on it. I think that's a milestone. A law must be the first, I say now, and if this is just the Staff Representative's Act, that's also something beautiful. However, I would like to take the opportunity to thank our colleagues for their service to the Republic, for our people, very much on the subject of public service. [[Admissibility with SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Madam President. I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's management, for we never watch the clock – and they have to work for us. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32426	I will also allow myself to pass on this thanks and recognition to the employees of the House in writing. [[Abg. Scheibner: But of all of us!]] – Of course, this is what Mr Pendl said: on behalf of the whole House. Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 2 minutes desired speaking time; the Greens have a total residence time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32457	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! In principle, we welcome the fact that the sensitive area of the use of information and communication technologies is addressed by these civil servants' service law novelle. Nevertheless, we see some problems and are therefore critical of the current draft. The draft law assumes that personal data will be stored on an ongoing basis. This is not questioned at all because the nature, extent and duration of storage are not regulated in this law. And if you don't control this, it's likely that these data will be available on an ongoing basis. - That's the first point. The second point is that there are undetermined terms of law. It is spoken of “risk” and“ injury ” without defining what is “risk” and “damages” in this law. Now I already know that there are general assumptions of what one understands as “risk” and “damage”, but a concreteization remains. The next point is that the control measures should only be arranged if organisational units involving at least five employees are affected. This is what we consider to be too narrowly defined, because these are almost still personal control measures. We would suggest that the organisation unit is defined with 25 people, then the margin would be bigger, then it would be much more targeted and then, I believe, the goal behind it would be achieved. The last point – that is always the crucial and exciting question – is: Who can arrange the control measures? – Even there we are not satisfied with the law. We have already discussed this in committee. We would have considered it useful that the Disciplinary Commissions are involved. In this sense, I believe that the law's claim to regulate this sensitive area in principle is correct, but there are still some questions that seem to us to be lacking. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32498	Mr Sonnberger has now come to speak. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32519	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to make a brief comment on the matter. Westenthaler come back. I think it is in the interest of all Members here in this House that, if the facts are so, they must be carefully identified and examined. It really can't be that Members are being heard – and nobody knows anything about it. This can affect everyone in this House, which is why, in my opinion, is absolutely necessary in this matter of information. [[General condolences.]] To the Civil Service Law Novelle I may say: This creates a legal basis for the admissibility declaration of private use of ICT in the public service. The law also allows private use to a limited extent. Regulation will lay down principles of use here. There are also control principles and participation rights of staff representatives. This is, I believe, also very important, in the form of an agreement with the staff representatives. I think there has been a very useful regulation. I am therefore seeking the adoption of the present draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32561	Mr Herbert has now come to speak. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32583	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing before: My group, too, will agree to these provisions of service in question. I briefly explain what our motives are: On the one hand, due to the increasing equipment and equipment of the services and services in the public service with Internet technology, it was urgently necessary to create clear and clear rules here, where the distinction is clearly drawn between the comprehensible presence of the service provider on the one hand, to keep the private use of service Internet technology as low as possible, and on the other hand to avoid a far-reaching and disproportionate control of the servant by the service provider. I think that this government template is a good approach, a good compromise, which has also taken into account the wishes of the Data Protection Council, the word “except for telephony”, which corresponds to these wishes, therefore creates clear legal certainty and includes the service available via Internet technology. The access of the state teachers to the federal pension funds is also to be welcomed as an additional pension fund provision and we also receive our consent. Of course, from the point of view of service law, the extension of the leave of leave for all federal staff and also national teachers for the provision of care-needed members from the age of 3 on account of social and also for human reasons is absolutely welcome. I think we cannot refuse this legal request and the government template. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32620	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32641	Madam President. High house! I would very much like to agree on some of the amendments that have been tabled. I think that a functioning public service requires optimum conditions, but also service conditions, which we must constantly develop. It was a lot of uncertainty because there were very many different regulations as regards the private use of computer devices by federal servants. We now have a clear legal basis, a regulation will follow. This happened in cooperation with the Public Service Union, with the Data Protection Council. Thank you very much for – in this case – the very good cooperation. Of course, the control measures by the service provider, which are thus created, are a good condition for this partly private use of the computer systems in the Federal Service. Of course, it is also important to establish a balance, a fair balance, between the interests of the staff and the service provider. We have also taken this into account with regard to the fact that there are staff representation elections in the autumn, and we have taken the opportunity to implement some technical adjustments, such as the harmonisation of targets or procedural acceleration measures. As Minister of Women, it was of course also my concern to formulate the legislative text of this Staff Representatives Act in gender-friendly language. The last point – it was just mentioned by my previous speaker – is: The involvement of national teachers in the Bundespensionskasse is also a possibility that if they want to, they will be included. In this context – perhaps no longer an opportunity – I should like to thank Mr Pendl very much for this – in your name, I believe that the public service works so well, even under the conditions under which he has to work now, especially in times of crisis, with the measures we have put in place, with the establishment plan, with the budget that we have created, that we have decommissioned planning points and will nevertheless try to remain very service-oriented. And this is always in cooperation with the Public Service Trade Union, also with regard to the autumn service law novelle, which is still outstanding in order to get the best out for our officials in the public service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32690	Next, Mr Magistrate. Maier speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32711	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to hold on to one thing: I assume that such a case as the case of Peter Westenthaler, who can affect all Members, will be clarified in all our interest. This concerns issues of privacy and data protection, but also our rights as Members of Parliament. [[General condolences.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever read the “profile” on Sunday or Monday could learn that a company in Upper Austria carried out video surveillance with its employees in 2003, perhaps also in 2004 has recorded health status and carried out an e-mail check. There are private regulatory deficits. Similar problems – and I would like to say this very clearly here – we also had in the Federal area. Some of you can still be remembered: in 2004, when it became known that the Federal Chancellery has purchased a spy software, and when it became known that illegal logfile evaluations were carried out in the Ministry of Finance without the agreement of the Public Service Trade Union. There was then a very intense discussion, and this discussion had led the Austrian Data Protection Council to work to create its own federal legislation. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the chairman of the Austrian Data Protection Council, Dr. Wägerbauer, very much, for the initiative for this legislative innovation – together with other members of the Data Protection Council. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It was a difficult way – I say it quite openly –: This law has long been blocked by some senior officials. Only because of the instructions of the then Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer in 2007 did there come to be a working group and ultimately exactly to this bill. It is a joint success of the Data Protection Council with the Public Service Trade Union. At the time, Mr Neugebauer very clearly criticized this procedure, calling it an immense one, and the trade union in the Ministry of Finance has sent a statement of facts to the public prosecutor. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This law lays down principles of use on the one hand, but also principles of control on the other. They have been developed together with the Public Service Trade Union. We now have regulations for the Federal Service, but not – and I emphasize that! – in the individual federal states and not in the municipalities. My group and I expect similar provisions for the countries, but also for the communities, to be created in this way to protect officials in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32768	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to make it clear here once again – some speakers have referred to the previous item on the agenda – that I am of course fulfilling my role as President of the National Council and that I am going to send a letter to both ministers – the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice – in which I urgently call for clarification of the facts relating to the return of telephone data concerning colleagues in Westenthal. I will also inform the clubs about the results and answers. You will hear from me that you will receive the answers from the two ministers. Next, Mr Donabauer will speak at a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32793	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Some important legislative instruments exist, have also been extensively discussed, namely those relating to the Federal Pension Scheme, where within the framework of the Service Law Novelle, every federal state can now accede to the collective agreement and the Federal Pension Scheme Treaty. I think this is a right approach, which is also broad-based and finds its necessary support. Secondly, a social policy measure. This government, at the beginning of its work, has clearly stated that adjustments will be made, in particular in the Federal Insurance Fund, in such a way that all those who do care work will find a better perception and appreciation in the future. Thus, in the Federal Civil Service Law Novelle now refers to the Civil Service Service Law, to the Contract Service Act, to the Legal and Public Prosecutor's Service Act, to the State Teacher's Service Law, to the Land and Forestry State Teacher's Service Law with the following content, that all those who have a child up to 40. Care for and care for a close relative from the age of 3 onwards, who receive the pension contribution from the federal government. In the care of a child, this money will come from the FLAF, otherwise it will come more or less out of the federal budget. I think that we have thus set a milestone in the social policy orientation in our country, and that we are doing one thing here in particular, namely to bring to the families and family members who have to fulfil this task yet a recognized and appreciative attitude.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32829	Mr Kunasek is now speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32850	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since we are now also debating the civil service law, I would like to make the following request on a given and current occasion: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have had dramatic weather situations in the last few weeks and we have again experienced that our comrades of the volunteer fire brigade have done very good work and have performed very important tasks for our people. [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] We have experienced that the fire brigades have not only helped the victims quickly, but they have also prevented worse in thousands of hours. I'm... These firearms have not only deserved our thanks, but they have also deserved useful measures to ensure that the performance is maintained and ensured in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, we must note that the day-to-day preparedness in the fire brigades is no longer working the way it should work. Especially between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m., there are massive difficulties with the corresponding manpower. I would like to remind you that the Landfire laws also regulate the duty of members to assist. If a servicer now wants to fulfil his duty, he must do so on a holiday or time-consuming basis. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that is a satisfactory solution. I would therefore ask you, with the regulation we are calling for, to strengthen the use of firearms, but on the other hand, to send a positive signal to our voluntary assistants at the fire brigade. I would therefore ask you to support this request accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32929	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e32987	Mrs Lueger has now come up with three minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33008	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As more and more jobs are being equipped with modern information technology, the extent and the way in which control is permitted by the service provider is again and again raised. The present draft law precisely regulates the private use of information and communication technology provided to public servants by the service provider. This draft is intended to compensate for a very diametrically opposed problem – on the one hand, with the fundamental interests of the staff, on the other hand, with the interests of the service providers regarding the possibilities of use and control. This draft law is very likely to be seen in the context of the regulation, which precisely defines the actual extent of private use. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It ensures the establishment of control principles so that there is no excessive and disproportionate control by the service provider. It's supposed to be stopped. In fact, it is thanks to an initiative by Jacky Maier within the framework of the Data Protection Council that he has revealed through his numerous requests that many departments, as far as the nature and extent of the control is concerned, do not act uniformly or are not uniformly regulated. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, it is now very, very positive that the staff representation is now also involved, which was not involved in advance, and that this draft has been carried out in close cooperation with the Public Service and the Data Protection Council. Mr Pendl has already mentioned this, and I would like to add that it was the initiative of our women's minister that the Federal Staff Office Act was totally opposed, and I am very pleased. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is an essential contribution to the agreement between the profession and the family, in the same way as the one in the second place. Social law amendment law took place in the ASVG, which is also used for the further implementation of our government programme, that federal officials and state teachers are given the opportunity to care for a disabled child or a close relative, at least with the care level 3, a karenz- to take leave against the loss of benefits, which is accounted for as a whole for the rest of the life, half for the advance. I am convinced that these colleagues are in a difficult situation when they take care of this care, and that we will provide them with a financial and legal assistance to meet their task. That is why we shall also vote in favour of these three agenda items.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33079	No further words are available here. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Civil Service Service Law, the Contracting Officers Act, the Legal and Public Prosecutor's Service Act and the Federal Staff Representative Act, together with the title and receipt in 278 of the Supplements. If you agree, I ask for a sign. - That's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you agree in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, colleagues, on the exemption from duty of officials of the public service who are members of the voluntary firearms. If you join him, I ask for a sign of approval. – The request is rejected. We shall also vote on the draft. Service Law Novelle 2009, including title and entry in 279 of the Supplements. If you agree, I ask for a sign. - That's accepted. I can also ask you to give your assent in third reading. – The draft law is also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Civil Service Service Act, the Contracting Staff Act, the Law on Justice and Public Prosecutors' Service and other laws, including title and receipt in 280 of the Supplements. I would ask you to give me an acceptable sign. - That's accepted. I would ask you to agree to this at third reading to give us a sign on this. – The draft was therefore adopted at the third reading. [[23:03:33]] 19. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 678/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Dr Peter Sonnberger, Mag. Daniela Musiol, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on Conjugation, BGBl. I No. 64/1997, and the Reference Act, BGBl. No. 273/1972, amended (282 e.g.) 20. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law, with the Income Tax Act, BGBl. No. 400/1988, as well as the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, BGBl. No. 200/1967, amended (283 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33186	We come to points 19 and 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There has been no oral reporting on point 19. As rapporteur, Mr Sonnberger, I would like to speak to the rapporteur to make a print error correction on point 20.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33210	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Report and request of the Constitutional Committee of 30 February 1989 on the reform of the law of the European Union. In June 2009, in 283 of the supplements on the draft federal law, with the Income Tax Act, BGBl. No. 400/1988, as well as the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, BGBl. No. 200/1967, as amended. In the title of the legislative text annexed to this report and application, the word “the income tax law” is missing before the word “the income tax law”. The title is correct: "Bundesgesetz, with which the Income Tax Act, BGBl. No. 400/1988, as well as the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, BGBl. No. 200/1967, amended’.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33229	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. We are going into the debate. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Grossmann. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33256	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With the new legislative period of the European Parliament, the new Statute of Deputies will also enter into force, which lays down the general conditions for the exercise of the mandate. But not only that: The Statute for Deputies also contains provisions on pensions and pensions, thus replacing the existing national pension schemes. In any case, this applies to the new Members of the EU. And the good side effect for us as budgeters is also the fact that the compensation under the EP Statute is now being disputed from Community funds. Members who have been a member of the European Parliament can now choose between the new European reference system or the stay in the national system. This right of option is to be made possible through today's amendment to the Federal Remuneration Act. Today, however, there are still other absolutely necessary accompanying changes in the area of income tax and health and accident insurance for decision-making. In concrete terms, all Austrian Members of the European Parliament are included in, or left in, officials' health and accident insurance, and also the necessary frameworks. to create conditions relating to contributions. As far as tax law is concerned, double taxation should be avoided. All in all, then, everything is quite reasonable and sensible, and I am pleased that you all share this view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33301	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Sonnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33333	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In addition: It is also about the retention of progression, and above all it remains a mandatory insurance of Members according to the BKUV. The other was finally said. Therefore, I can only make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I request the adoption of the request.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33378	The amendment is because it is read and properly introduced, with negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33445	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33466	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The proposed amendment to the Income Tax Act or the Income Tax and Civil Service Health and Accident Insurance Act for Members of the European Union is mainly a consensual matter. That's why I'm going to be short. My group believes that this is a useful adjustment in terms of income relationships for all EU Members – starting with the next election period. Not only should there be a uniform system of remuneration for EU Members, it also has the positive effect that the payment of these incomes is no longer the responsibility of the national budget, but it is borne by the EU. For this reason alone, we support this proposal and consider it to be a correct and appropriate step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33493	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. Your group's remaining speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33515	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! No visitors... – Oja! Dear visitor to the gallery! We are pleased that our initiative, which we introduced a few weeks ago, has now come up with an adjustment to parliamentary status, has now, as it were, come across your initiative and that we have been able to make this request together. Unfortunately, this was not possible three weeks before the EP election – it is now possible. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to address any other adaptations, such as the reform of the rights of participation, parliamentary rights in the area of EU and State Treaty. President Prammer has announced both in the Presidential Conference and in the media that there is a working group at official level which has been working since December 2008 on the extent to which and what adjustments will be necessary here in the area of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution with regard to the Lisbon Treaty. I hope that this working group will come up with initial proposals in the direction of autumn, so that we can discuss first legislative and constitutional adaptation proposals in autumn, and I am already excited how quickly this can work.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33551	There are no more words available. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Remuneration Act and the Relevant Act, in 282 of the Supplements. For this purpose, MEPs have Dr. Wittmann, Dr. Sonnberger, Mag. Mr Musiol, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. 1 of the draft. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall leave the draft law with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Dr Wittmann, Dr Sonnberger, Mag. Mr Musiol, ladies and gentlemen. When consent is given, seek an important sign. - That's accepted. I invite you to agree to the draft law at third reading and to give a sign. – The draft was therefore adopted at the third reading. We come to the vote on the draft federal law in 283 of the supplements concerning the amendments to the Income Tax Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, taking into account the print error correction presented by the rapporteur, including title and receipt. If you agree, I ask for a sign. - That's accepted. If you also agree to the draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft was therefore adopted at the third reading. [[23:13:42]] 21. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 278/A by Mr Mag. Harald Stefan, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG), BGBl. No. 1/ 1930, amended (281 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33619	I'll call 21. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33647	Mr President. Dear Mr. Procurator! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Appreciate High House! Ladies and gentlemen! The present request by Mag. Stefan, Dr. Fichtenbauer and other Members of Parliament were therefore introduced because we believe that there is an urgent need to strengthen opposition rights, particularly in those matters where agreement with the main committee is to be reached. The reason for this was the meeting of the EU's main committee on 13 November. July 2007, where the nomination of Mr Hubert Weber as a member of the European Court of Auditors was discussed and where further on the question of the further candidates, the further nomination was refused the notification of these persons for data protection reasons. I think it is precisely in a matter in which the law or the Rules of Procedure has to establish agreement with the main committee, but which retains important detailed information from the main committee here, that is already the question of the extent to which action exists here. That is why we have also tabled this request. I would therefore ask you to agree to this request in the sense of parliamentary life and also of parliamentary culture, but also of the rights of the Austrian Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33685	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33706	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! If you read more precisely the request you have made, you already have the question of how the statement of reasons fits the text of the law, because it refers to very different content than to the request. That means I'm not sure if it's as coherent as you think it is. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The other reasons are already known!]] If one now assumes that you believe in this request that exclusively the names of the members of the opposition to the European Court of Auditors may be called, that is, the rejection of a principle that we have in our constitution, namely that each Member has the same rights – every Member of a government party, but also of an opposition party. And there is no distinction between the rights of an opposition party and a government party, but only the Members who exercise a free mandate. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We already know this from the People's Procuratorate!]] We should maintain this principle. If one had said that it could also be called names by the government parties, then it would have been an equality of views on the part of Members. We could really discuss this, but just as it is that a privileged vote by a member of the opposition is established here for the first time in the Constitution, I think this is a rejection of a principle in the Constitution, and this is strictly rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33763	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. 2 minutes remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33785	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We shall vote against this because we are in favour of the fundamental request of the liberals. It is the rare case that once an opposition request comes into the House at all and not how 99% of the other opposition applications are postponed to some point – after all. I do not want to discuss the legal situation now, but only about the fundamental intensification of the request that the High House has a stronger right of participation in the orders in which Austria can participate in relation to the institutions of the European Union. This is to be supported, not only in the area of getting more information about the candidates, but also in other areas. Es There are now also orders from Commissioners. It would also be very interesting here, I think, that the Austrian National Council not only has a discussion, but also a decision-making right, which Austria sends into these important positions. This request is an important part of this fundamental intensification and is therefore supported by us.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33821	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33842	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I should like to add my colleague Wittmann's comments here. I would just like to say that I consider the habit that has now led to the appointment – namely: the government proposes that the main committee should deal with it – to be sufficient to be informed accordingly and to make decisions. I would also like to say that no one knows, since the Court of Auditors' period lasts six years, a legislative period with us five years, at which time it is in the government or in the opposition. I think the present has proved itself. It should therefore be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33870	Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33891	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! [[In the direction of the last audience still present at the visitor gallery:]] Dear visitor! We agree with the request and have also agreed to the FPÖ's request in the Committee. As a result, we will reject the negative committee report. The essential part is the question of whether this agreement rule should be implemented in its existing form, and here we approach the argument of the FPÖ in the reasoning of the request, which reads as follows: The agreement rule comes to the farce that not even the other candidates are announced. Of course, this is a sensitive problem for data protection, especially for people who are in upright service conditions, to have to announce here medium to very public that they are applying for another post. On the other hand, there is also the possibility of declaring that committee meeting or that part of the committee meeting confidential, so that this can only be known to a limited number of persons. Against this background, we support this request, although, of course, we do not want to conceal the fact that an even further request, namely a request aimed at the election in plenary, as well as the President of the national Court of Auditors, is elected here by the plenary, would create an even greater legitimacy. But the first step, namely this request, is to be supported by us.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33927	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33951	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! To conclude: In the introduction lecture to the right and state of his time by Professor Winkler, he was very referring to a very important work of literary history at the beginning of the lecture cycle, namely “Animal Farm”. The first sentence reads: “All animals are equal, but some” – the piges – “are more equal than others.” – They are all equal, but some are more equal. And that's the real constitution! And a small intention to actually provide this equality formula with real reality contains this request. I remind you: At the last "press hour" of Mr Pröll's Vice-Chancell, he said absolutely uncanny: SPÖ and ÖVP have made the exchange business: the SPÖ receives the ECJ director, and we get the Commissioner. That's it. Out, out. – You can't pretend to be away from the noble doing and life. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is, of course, part of the political real constitution! But you don't have to take that! By the way, Kreisky has shaped the beautiful sentence: The carnickel never has a joy with the vivisection. – Why, then, should a Member of the opposition silence this performance of the political constitution?- Oh, my God! It is also not a real argument from the point of view of the balance of justice that we should not do so. There is no register in it: A number of MEPs – government parties; stupid Members – opposition parties. In addition, where the roles have changed over a few years. So it would be nice if you gave your heart a blow and the attitude we offer with this request to turn your back. It would be politically and democratically appropriate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e33997	A further word message is no longer available. The debate is closed. If all the ladies and gentlemen have taken their seats, I may invite them to vote. We come to the vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 281 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's accepted. [[23:25:41]] Reading of part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e34033	I have the written request of 20 Members, the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda item 19: Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 678/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Dr Peter Sonnberger, Mag. Daniela Musiol, colleagues in a federal law that amends the Federal Remuneration Act and the Relevant Act, in 282 of the Supplements, as well as in Agenda item 20: Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the Income Tax Act and the Civilian Health and Accidental Insurance Act, 283 of the Supplements, so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I will therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol: ‘TO point 19: Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 678/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Dr Peter Sonnberger, Mag. Daniela Musiol, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on Conjugation, BGBl. I No. 64/1997, and the Reference Act, BGBl. No. 273/1972, amended (282) TO point 20: Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law, with the Income Tax Act, BGBl. No. 400/1988, as well as the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, BGBl. No. 200/1967, amended (283 of the supplements) Deputies Dr. Peter Wittmann, Dr. Sonnberger, Mag. Musiol, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 19/1. Deputies Dr. Sonnberger brings in the print error correction Supplement XX/1. Votes: To TO point 19: The draft law is adopted unanimously, in accordance with the Committee's proposal, in 282 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment amendment Annex 19/1 at second and third readings. To TO point 20: The draft law is adopted unanimously, in accordance with the Committee's proposal, in 283 of the Supplements at second reading, taking into account the print error correction Supplement XX/1 and at third reading. There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on Agenda items 19 and 20 (Annex XIX/1).’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 as approved by the Joint Committee at the end of this meeting. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:28:31]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00029_d8e34128	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 697/A to 706/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2631/J to 2650/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 23.29 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
