ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e4984	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. Before everything will follow for this meeting, I can remind you that, in agreement with my two colleagues in the National Council Presidency, we have today launched a joint action on the occasion of the International Day of Human Rights, where Members are invited to sign the UNIFEM Action and the United Nations Action “Do NOT Say to Violence to Women”. This appeal is, above all, also addressed to the Members of Parliament. Please also provide your signature in the column hall during the day. Thank you for that! [[Congratulations on MEPs from SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] The Official Protocol of the 48. 3rd meeting of 3rd meeting In December 2009, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented are reported on today's session, Deputies Faul, Mag. Gaßner, Ing. Hackl, Ing. Hofer, Jannach, Mag. Unspoiled, Mag. Korun. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5030	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Maria Fekter. [[09:06:42]] Members have spoken on business matters. First, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5069	Madam President. High house! With regard to the agenda, I request that item 38 be taken from the agenda. This is the proposal or the report of the Constitutional Committee on the inclusion of children's rights in the Constitution – a very important and proper matter, which it is worth considering here. However, the Committee itself has a problem: There is no two-thirds majority, and there is the impression that due to the two-thirds majority of those who have been put into the room because of the Committee of Inquiry or its results, they are not to be reached, one tries to put the opposition almost under pressure. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You can give them!]] [[Lively ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP.]] After all, one has not even negotiated with the opposition why only nine of the 45 points arrived here, one has not at all had a conversation – and that is very bad parliamentaryism! And if you're in a mood like this: Keep your laughter back! Why did you not do so with the Services Directive? – Same matter, the same majority required, but there you do not. But with children's rights, do you want to do it? – Bad parliamentarism! I am looking for a debate on this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5118	Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5139	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is perfectly right. For the sake of completeness, we also request that Agenda items 38 to 40 be deleted – so that this is clarified. It was fully implemented and justified in terms of content. I don't understand the laughter of the government parties at all! I do not understand that they are making fun of the important right of children's rights here in the House. That's a blasphemous action! We call for a debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5169	Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5191	Ladies and gentlemen! We too raise objections to the agenda with reference to item 38. And one important thing for me is: The fact that this two-thirds majority does not exist today has nothing to do with the Investigation Committee, but you come here and present us with a Constitutional Act without pre-negotiation. [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP]] And it is not that when you come, Parliament "jumps", but it needs a proper discussion process. And that's why: The decommissioning of the agenda and a further discussion in the Committee so that we can achieve a solution that really serves children's rights!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5227	Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5248	Obviously, the three opposition parties today had a general assembly, where they discussed all of this again, and concluded: The junkimization of the investigation committee and two-thirds of the majority is bad in the public, is understood as a refusal to work, is foreign. There are experts outside this house who have also criticized this publicly and also on television and in newspapers. And now you're trying to row back...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5267	Mr. Dr. Cap, I must interrupt: Please do not explain and explain long and wide at this point. We will come to an objection debate anyway. So I ask you to be extremely brief.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5293	But I was just so beautiful in the river, so I didn't find an end. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – And therefore, I think, this objection is unfounded.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5337	Please, Mr Linder.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5358	Madam President. I am not aware of the fact that we are called child-skins by the ÖVP series. I'd like to make this clear. That's an unheard-of statement from the ÖVP that we'd be kidish! That's not how it is! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5388	Mr President, I have not heard this statement. I'm going to have the stenographic protocol transmitted. That would actually be a very reprehensible form of expression. – As I said, I have the minutes transmitted. Now, Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5458	Madam President. High house! Of course, we will not agree to the request for an amendment to the agenda. We believe it is very important that the anchoring of children's rights in our constitution takes place as soon as possible, and we see no reason at all to change the agenda. The opposition has also failed to argue the final. That's why we stay with it: We want the anchorage of children's rights in the federal constitution to be voted here today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5493	You have heard the objections to the agenda. I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. Debates and votes on the objections will take place after the current hour. [[09:12:17]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5523	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Vision Zero – the central concept of transport policy for fewer accidents, fewer dead and injured in road transport” I announce that the meeting will be transferred live by the ORF by 12.30 a.m. First of all, Mr Heinzl. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5557	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, Mrs. Federal Minister! Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Transport safety is an issue that is very important to all of us. Mr Westenthaler, it is nice that you are here in Parliament today. Obviously there is no football game in the morning. It is very important that you also devote yourself once to your work as a Member of Parliament. Listen, because traffic safety is a subject that should be very important to you personally! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all of us here are drivers, cyclists or pedestrians, and we all read daily in the newspaper about light and heavy traffic accidents. Many of us have already been victims of accidents in the circle of relatives or friends or have even been witnesses of accidents. Some may have already First aid was provided or were used as firemen or paramedics in the accident. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, too often the helpers are confronted with the dead or the seriously injured. Unfortunately, it is a fact that in 2008 alone 678 people died on Austrian roads, so almost two people a day. If you look closely at the statistics, you quickly realize that most people have to die from everyday traffic sins. Unfortunately, the main cause of the accident is the quick driving – “unadapted speed” as it is so beautiful in the trade jargon. This fast-moving, this shaving costs 237 people life – almost 35 percent of all deaths. A further 35 percent die in case of priority injuries, because of a short inconsistency of the driver, such as by calling, or when overtaking. Our small everyday transport sins therefore cost around 470 people in 2008. The best electronic helpers or airbags are not adequate protection at over-speed, shaving and pushing. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, some drivers in everyday stress forget that the provisions of the StVO, that is, the regulations of the road transport system, are not arbitrary shocks, but are for their own protection and for the protection of others. Some people see higher penalties than government money acquisition at the expense of drivers. I don't share this opinion. In road transport, it is precisely rules that serve the safety and safety of others. It is quite clear, of course, that people who risk innocent behaviour must expect sanctions. However, what was rightly incomprehensible to many people in the past was the different penalties in the various federal states. It is really not understandable why speed drivers in Vorarlberg were punished differently than in Vienna, for example. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister Doris Buresund also the good cooperation with the federal states were united the penalties for speedy travel throughout the country. In addition to fasting and calling while driving, there is unfortunately the fact that too many people drink, often heavy drunk by car. Especially now the Christmas season is increasing the number of alcolenkers. Every two and a half hours, in Austria, an accident with personal injury occurs due to alcohol. As reported in the “time in the picture” on the holiday, controls on one day – not even on plan quadrates, but on normal controls – were now reduced by 100 driving licences for driving in alcoholic condition. Although the number of alcohol accidents fell by 8 percent in the first half of 2009 compared to the previous year, its share of total accidents has nevertheless increased over the same period. Even the typical alcohol regulator has been showing the same profile for years: mostly unfortunately young, male – it is true, only 15 percent of all alcohol accidents are caused by women – between 20 and 24 years old. As the age increases, the number of alcohol accidents also decreases. If you look at this profile, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you don't get to the conclusion that obviously young men pay too little attention to the promille limit while continuing, according to the motto: Nothing will happen to me! and just then drink by car. Therefore, it is important that targeted awareness-building is carried out on the one hand. At the moment, a campaign by the Ministry of Transport against alcohol at the wheel is in progress, and those of you, ladies and gentlemen, who have already seen the mockery, will certainly remember that in it young men and the same attitude, which corresponds to the motto “I will not happen already!” will be addressed in concrete terms. From my point of view, however, it is also particularly important to be able to offer young people alternatively to the journey by car. A regular taxi is often inexorable for many young people, especially when they are at home in rural areas. With its numerous projects, such as night taxis or disco buses, municipalities and countries make a decisive contribution to road safety. And for that, I think I also want to express a warm thanks. Consciousness and the creation of alternatives to one's own car are the one side of the measures. On the other hand, drunken, drunkened, heavily drunkened drivers must also expect to be caught by the police and properly punished. Planquadrates and priority actions prevent numerous accidents each year with the dead and seriously injured. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is often the weakest road users who are particularly affected by accidents. In the European Union, every 17 seconds, a pedestrian, cyclist, moped or motorcycle handlebar is an accident. I think it is clear from this point alone that there is a clear need for action on the part of policy. Because of the high number of injuries among moped drivers, the moped driver's license was reformed and the moped training was redesigned. No more moped drivers may be on the road without his driving practice. 60 percent of all moped accidents occur in the first half of the year of moped driving practice. Ladies and gentlemen! Another very crucial step in road safety is that every moped driver is now obliged to complete a training, an examination. Like moped drivers, the children are among the weakest road users. It is bitter and at the same time a shame that, in the meantime, most dead children die in road traffic in the car and not because they will pass over. Most die because they were not at all or not properly strapped. Every mother, every father who doesn't catch his child in the car, needs to know that he's putting his child at risk and risk that this child can be seriously hurt or killed. It doesn't matter if the accident happens on the short way to school or to the grandma. For the child who is not picked up because of convenience, there is a great danger of delay. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think there's a consensus that every traffic kill is too much. Safety in road transport is an issue that requires us not only as a parliamentarian but also as drivers, cyclists and pedestrians to keep on working. Mrs. Federal Minister Doris Buresist has been in office for a little over a year. During this period, numerous steps have been taken to increase road safety, which I would like to recall briefly: higher penalties for high-risk drivers, longer driver's license withdrawal for car drivers and much more. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Final sentence: I would like to conclude by thanking our Federal Minister for Transport for her tireless commitment to increased road safety. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5669	Mrs Bures has now come forward for an introductory opinion. The speaking time should also not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5690	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's almost exactly a year since I was praised as a transport minister. I have been able to gain a lot of experience in these last 12 months. Much in this important place has passed to me in flesh and blood. But there is one thing that is on my desk every week, namely the weekly accident statistics and the figures that are reflected in them. I can tell you that I will never get used to it and that this is always terrifying when you see how high the number of fatalities in Austrian road traffic is and how many people are seriously injured in Austrian road traffic. ==References====External links== November 2009, which is located on my desk, read: 17 victims of death last week, 5 victims of death in the weekend. When I hear these numbers, I often think that there is probably hardly anyone who knows someone who is not in his family, in his environment, in the circle of friends, in the place where he lives, who has become the victim of a traffic accident. I think it's important to remember this because statistics on how many people lose their lives in road traffic get a face. Behind that are fates that must be avoided in the future with all the measures we can take. 17 The victims of road traffic in a week, 17 families have lost someone: the spouse, the child, the parents, the grandparents. I believe that a world will collapse for these families in such a situation and that their lives will change and probably never again after such a dramatic accident as it was before. I believe that it is therefore important – and I would like to thank once again the honourable Members in the House who have decided by a vast majority on the transport safety package – that we do not leave anything untry that we are putting in place all the measures that are possible to actually reduce this suffering on Austria's roads. The figures show us: Two people die every day on Austrian roads, 138 people are injured in Austria every day. Last year 679 people died, and 50,521 people were injured in road traffic. These are numbers you don't even have an idea of. So many people have been killed in a year as if six Boeing 737 had been crashed. Imagine the insurrection that would come when six planes, filled with men, women and children, crashed! But so many people die every year on Austria's streets! Or imagine: Over 50,000 people are injured every year in road transport. That's like the population of the whole of St. Pölten – my previous speaker is from St. Pölten! – injured and thus a whole city, so to speak, victims of accidents. I believe that if you take a closer look at this, it is clear that you cannot go to the agenda. Some say that a package is still too little, and there may be some who say maybe this is a bit too sharp. I believe that these figures show that regardless of all political views, it must be our task to do everything in order to reduce our suffering in the future, so that we are less injured so that we will have fewer deaths on Austria's roads. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] We have therefore put this transport safety package with great care and with regulations that have made us more penal, because we want to express that alcoholised driving and lawning are not a cavalier offence. However, we have also found rules which are not only concerned with increasing fines and demanding cash benefits. Often, the length of the driver's license withdrawal is much more effective than fines. The most important thing in this context is to me: I have the objective of not taking any sanctions to be paid by Alcolenker or Raser, because everyone in road transport behaves responsibly. That's why I started a consciousness campaign. As far as the high-risk controllers are concerned, we've decided harder laws to show, it's not a cavalier crime. We have – and this is very important to me – but also the focus on the smallest and weakest road users, namely our children. I do not want to accept what is still a reality today, namely that every fifth infant in the car is not sure that more children are injured and killed in the car than in the school road. Therefore, there are additional measures in the transport safety package – child safety seminars, adult training, and in the baby boxes, information is distributed to the emerging parents – in order to give children the protection they need in the car. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References== We also made improvements on September 2009 with regard to the youthful mopedledlers. 60 percent of all moped accidents have young people in the first six months after receiving their moped driver's license. This shows that they lack driving practice. Therefore, we have increased this very practice of driving and in the training of driving licences for mopeds since 1. ==References====External links== I am convinced that it is a good and right package of measures that we have jointly chained. But laws – you know all too well – are, of course, only as efficient as they are then controlled. It is therefore very important that traffic controls are carried out. The Minister for the Interior has agreed to: Increase traffic controls by 20 percent. I support the measures by which police officers are relieved of bureaucratic office work and can thus be used on the street because these controls are so important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, as I said, it needs a different attitude. We need to change something in consciousness. I'm just telling you: It is so that the alcoolers, which then – you can't see so quickly! – become the perpetrator, 90 percent are men. That means that's a question of attitude. It is also a question of access. Therefore, together with the Wiener Städtisch, the Kuratorium für Verkehrssicherheit and the AUVA, I have launched a awareness campaign in which we show that it is often too much a glass, which then leads to such dramatic and catastrophic effects. It's about pointing out that it's not about a marginal group of heavy alcoholics, but it can be far too fast that you're going to be a perpetrator and each of us can also be victims of an alcooler. I say it quite openly, also during the punching season and in view of the many Christmas markets that are now in place: It's not about not going to a Christmas market and drinking punch. I'm not about company parties taking place and drinking a glass of wine. I'm talking about keeping things apart, that if you drink alcohol, you don't drive a car, and if you drive a car, you don't drink alcohol. This mixture – drinking alcohol and driving cars – is the deadly mixture that we must prevent and fight against. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there are many accidents that are said not to be avoidable, but: Accidents occurring under alcohol influence are avoidable. These are accidents that we can claim the fight, by being quite closed against combining drinking alcohol and driving with one another. We must fight this together. Then we have the chance that we will actually prevent suffering on Austria's roads. With this campaign, I would like to raise awareness once again. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Every person who is injured in road traffic every day in Austria, every child killed every week in Austria in road traffic, is one or one too much. That is why I will do everything I can to prevent this suffering in the future. I invite you, together with me, to take this path to greater road safety and to support me in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5828	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of the following participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. First of all, Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5852	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Safety in road transport is one of the main priorities of Transport Minister Doris Bures. The last transport safety package has taken important legal measures to improve road safety. For Raser and Alkolenker, there is a drastic increase in the penalties, the withdrawal of driving licences from 0.8 per mille as well as a total increase in withdrawal duration and transport coaching in alcohol offences. These two high-risk groups are the greatest risk in road transport. They dangerously endanger themselves and other road users. And these alcohol accidents have even increased slightly in comparison to other areas for years. In 2008, there were 53 dead and 1 561 injured by alcoholic handlebars. First of all, it's male young handlebars. On these legal measures, the wide-ranging campaign "Alcohol at the tax" was launched in November, in time before Christmas celebrations and punchstands began. Could you live with it?" as a TV and radio spot and ad in numerous media, especially in the new media started. Second most prominent crime is insufficient and incorrect safety equipment for children. In this respect, the Ministry has also taken new legal measures, but also focused on increased information and prevention work by trained staff, multipliers and leaflets and folder. Children should be offered the greatest possible safety. Today 15 children have been killed in road traffic by the end of November, to 3 children more than in the previous year. In particular, transport experts point to the special responsibility of adults, whether by means of defensive behaviour in road transport, by informing them of road transport risks and, above all, by the special importance of the role of adults in the model. Ladies and gentlemen! Traffic safety is to be understood as a very complex process. Successful programmes are only possible through long-term, methodology and a detailed action catalogue with evaluation. Reduction targets are defined and provided with appropriate financial resources. The Austrian Transport Safety Programme 2002–2010 sets out the halving of the number of road fatalities in Austria as a rather ambitious target by 2010. Towards the end of this programme, all forces are to be pooled again, the catalogue of measures has been expanded, for every single human life that can be saved, and every prevented suffering of affected relatives and friends is worth an effort. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the new 2011–2020 transport safety programme, with the guidelines for the coming years, Minister Bures places particular emphasis on the fact that all road users – whether two-wheeled, four-wheeled, motorized or not – are taken into account. The aim is to ensure better and safer co-operation between all those involved in road transport with Focus, especially on the weak road users. Our motto is and must continue to be: Each individual in road traffic killed or injured is one/one too much!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5915	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5937	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Mayor, yes! [[Abg. Bucher: Mayor!]] In spite of this serious issue, allow me to first express my joy that it is possible, together with the SPÖ, to have visions against the statement of a former Chancellor and not to need a doctor and talk about the vision of reaching zero deaths. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – I don’t save myself that! It was. “Learn history!” said Mr. Bundeskanzler Kreisky once. It was. Despite these calls: We are overlaid every day by images that medially deliver the pig flu and all forms of epidemics to the house, and we no longer remember – we were aware by my previous speakers today – that every year about 800 people lose their lives in road traffic, that 50,000 people are seriously injured and suffer long-term damage. The economic damage is not to be estimated and the personal suffering difficult to judge. A few more figures: 11 million people are killed in traffic accidents in ten years, and 50 million are seriously injured all over the world. It is therefore necessary to discuss measures. The Federal Minister has referred to and presented a package of measures, but what we need is implementation in practice. In Lower Austria, for example, we started the action Protective Angels because of an initiative by our Mr. State Captain Dr. Erwin Pröll. In the context of this action, 80 000 children, in writing, have been alerting to problems in school within 10 years, to traffic problems, and it has been possible with the country of Lower Austria to overcome these traffic situations. For example, we have equipped more than 370 railway crossings in Lower Austria with warning signals and thus contributed to road safety. We still have a lot to do. There are several possibilities, whether it be the debated possibility to introduce a new park shape, the baby parking lot or meeting rooms in a kind of pedestrian zone, which will also be extended for vehicles in the central zones. These are many things that lie ahead of us, but some of them have to be implemented quickly, and I am not your opinion, Mr Heinzl. You have once said that we need a parliamentary survey for the introduction of a rescue road if I can cut it now. ==References== In December of this year, between Graz and Lässnitzhöhe, a terrible accident with a tank car occurred, a flamenine ferno, and the rescue forces were unable to press for 10 minutes. It was not possible because the pan strip was not free because there was no passing. And today we experience the same thing. As we heard in the morning on the radio, the South motorway between Graz and Laßnitzhöhe is locked again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you are committed to the fact that we are discussing very quickly and not only in a survey on the introduction of a rescuing road. In Germany there has been this for 30 years and in Switzerland too. We're just talking about it. I have been discussing with your Minister of Transport and current Chancellors for three years about the need to introduce a speed limit to 100 kilometres at the changeover. Uphill we have them, downhill it was not possible because the officials in the Ministry of Transport have said that this does not do anything. Today, after a year, we have the report: two thirds of fewer accidents, two injured at the change. Everyone who has to go over the change knows that. And you talk and talk and talk. We must implement, we must act quickly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You can use it to put in place a joint motion for a resolution which will ensure that the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs very quickly initiates an examination of this Rescue Street, and I hope and hope that a report will then be submitted to the National Council. This would be in the sense of our forces standing on the road every day and deserved it, and in the sense of preventing further road fatalities.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e5992	Mr Vilimsky is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6016	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, let me make it clear: Transport safety is a very important issue, and transport safety needs a great deal of space in parliamentary treatment. In connection with transport safety, I have already tried in the last legislative period to go to the then Minister of Transport Werner Faymann and tell him: If we sit together, we make a round of parliamentary transport speakers, and we develop cut quantities where improvements can be made in the field of safety. The then SPÖ Transport Spokesman – I think Kurt Eder was that – came to me and said: Look, this is a failed proposal. I'll talk to my transport minister – back then Werner Faymann – we'll do such a round. But what is happening is – three times you can guess – nothing to do with it. I have also made this offer to the Federal Minister to put us together, apart from the major gaps in the debate, to develop cut volumes in the area of road safety in order to really achieve something for the people. Nothing's happened! I have recently been allowed to discuss with the Federal Minister for Transport Safety on TV, also with Mr Heinzl, who has founded the current hour today, and with representatives of the ARGE two-wheel in terms of the implementation of measures on road safety in the area of motorcycle safety. Nothing is happening to this day. But before I come to your concept, which you have put to the discussion today, “Vision Zero” – I don’t know if you all know what this is; maybe one or the other means that it’s a competitive product to come to Coca-Cola zero – you’ll allow me – that’s going towards SPÖ – to wash your heads in a little parliamentary way. If you are looking at what is happening in the context of today's debate: yesterday the Committee on State Debt, the situation for Austria is frightening, the words of Mr Felder, when you look around Austria, whether Spain, where unemployment is 20 percent, the markets are shaken, to Great Britain, which has come into massive difficulties and is now being overtaken by the former colony of India, to Italy, where huge problems are, to Portugal, where huge problems are, to Hungary, where one is already talking about a civil war, in a situation where the Irish, as exported, are fighting for naked survival, where in Austria the situation with a bank is very dramatic, that is, a system-relevant bank, the sixth largest in Austria, must be saved. And in this whole environment, where people are afraid, in Austria unemployment is as high as never before, the insolvencys and bankruptcys are as high as never before, the social poverty is as great as ever before, with all these problems also about distribution justice and all that people are interested in, it would be a command for you as chancellor fraction of the hour that you use the time, if you have available a current hour and this is also broadcast on television, to call people your access to these topics and your solutions for it. You're not doing it! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Bucher.]] They do not, but talk about a twelve-year-old concept that comes from Sweden called "Vision Zero" to finally do something about road safety. For years we would have had time to implement measures here. The measures are all on the table. But nothing happens. Nothing happens! You have to hold that one down. The only thing that happens and is trying to sell traffic safety is to increase the penalties and say that this is a great measure of road safety. I may have to talk to myself if the penalties are increased in the case of gross traffic safety offences, if you take these funds to do a transport safety fund, and if you use this transport safety fund to implement transport safety measures. But this does not happen, this money goes into the general budget. Instead, one prefers to turn the government's advertisements and then sells them as a great measure. That's not the road safety I think it's useful to people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are so many possibilities that don't cost much money, but you'd achieve something. The Minister now wants to introduce Alkolocks. Before you start the car, you have to blow into a tube. Every scientist in the international studies tells you that this does not do anything at all, because it is very vulnerable to abuse and the co-driver, who has not drunk, blows into the tube. It would be a great mistake to finally make public transport in Vienna cheaper – to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ – because many drivers in Vienna, who have been drinking a little, do not want to switch to unattractive transport, which also costs a lot, and also not to a taxi that is completely overpriced, and therefore to drive by car. These are the problems! We need an integrated transport concept that serves people, and we must not always focus on spending more and more on money. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say: Thematic error today! Yes to road safety, but shame about you that in one of Austria's most difficult hours, you can only discuss over a twelve-year-old Swedish transport concept!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6098	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6119	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister, we are always a constructive partner – for this the BZÖ is known – when it comes to creating more security on Austrian roads. However, one thing is clear: Only with higher punishments They don't make them safe anymore. Whenever we talk to experts, whenever we talk to executive officials, we hear the demand for more executive organs, which also serve on the streets, for fewer executive organs that are locked in the offices and overcrowded with bureaucracy. More executives on the road, that would be the right instrument for you to come to more traffic safety. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, how significant is it if a government party releases the current hour entitled “Vision Zero”?- Oh, my God! For all those who are not powerful in English: zero visions. “Null Visions”, that is the topic of SPÖ, which they currently want to discuss here in this House. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is symptomatic of the SPÖ's perspective: zero visions of traffic safety, zero visions of what the government's work is about! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] I would like, Mrs Federal Minister, to focus your attention briefly on a part of your responsibility, namely the ÖBB, because the ÖBB were once a demonstration company of the Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Also in many other countries, not only in Austria. What are the ÖBB today? – A privilege stage of the very first quality; not to overdo privileges, special rights, special business agreements. If I only think of the number of works councils, what was to be read about last week in the headlines. Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖBB has 42 000 employees. Of the 42 000 employees, 830 are works councils, 160 are unemployed. 160 works councils of the ÖBB are exempt from duty! If we were to use the Labour Constitution Act, all of which have to follow in the private sector, then the ÖBB would only have 14 works councils. 14 Works Councils according to the current Labour Constitution Act! [[Abg. Haberzettl: That's stupid what you're talking about!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Whether this was heard by the President?]] Mr Haberzettl, you are misusing the ÖBB for your trade union activities, and that must end once in this Republic! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is immense that the union took over the ÖBB for itself and bended the laws as it needs. [[Abg. Haberzettl: That's stupid!]] This goes on into all areas, we think only of the ticket benefits of the ÖBB. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, only to illustrate, because it is important for me to make it clear once what consequences normal workers in the private sector have to suffer and what circumstances they have to deal with, while the benefits of the ÖBBs take on growth which is no longer acceptable. For example, the ticket discount: A family ticket that costs Austria ticket for anyone who wants to buy it 2 640 €. ÖBB staff receive this ticket at €5.26 per month. €5.26 a month, the ÖBB staff pay and receive a family ticket! 220 000 people in Austria, those are the 42 000 ÖBB staff directly employed, their families plus the pensioners, 70 000 in the number formerly employed by the ÖBB, 220 000 people in Austria who benefit from this credit rating! Yes, you should not be surprised that the ÖBB argues, then you should not be surprised that the taxpayer has to pay more than €7 billion a year in the company so that the ÖBB can make just €2 billion in turnover. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Finally, take care of order and finally eliminate these abuses in the ÖBB, so that we find a company that is powerful, which is performance-friendly, which finally responds to the needs and requirements of the railway users, the railway customers. We have the rusted trains, which are no longer equivalent to the performance standards of the present and the future! Invest in the future and ensure that these abuses are finally eliminated! Another thing is the early retirement of thousands of ÖBB staff. I expect a Federal Minister to make it clear when this accusation is put into the room that 1,000 ÖBB staff are still being sent to retirement in December, which is finally being made clear. These are questions that you, Mrs Federal Minister, have to address, and you should give an answer to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6222	Mrs Dr. Moser is now speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6292	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, also at home in front of the TV screens! I am sure that people who have been injured in traffic accidents and are now in the hospital will really follow this debate with interest, because – Mrs Minister, I fully share your opinion – human suffering, added by traffic, is really avoidable. And that's why I'm on this "Vision Zero". For me, she's a vision, not a vision. Yes, Mrs Minister, this is also the accusation: You or your predecessors fixed this vision for traffic programmably, but unfortunately we are far away from the goals, unfortunately it is said, traffic safety: Target missing!, unfortunately it is said, we are on the spot. I can do this to you, and I would like to deal with this subject a little more intensively, because it is also very important for me personally to make avoidable human suffering really offensively political as a programme. What you, Mrs Minister, said here today was largely a confession: Confession to the goals. You have pointed out that you have implemented a little bit, but the only measure you have announced pro futuro, for the future, were plus 20 percent of staff, more police on the road to traffic control. Yeah, that's very important. We need an intensification of control, otherwise everything in this paper will not be useful, or what you have presented to us today. Control is about and about, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us put it to the figures. This paper, which was decided, partly also by Parliament, would suggest that we already reduce the number of fatalities to 537 in 2009, this year. The current state of play, date 6.12.2009, is 593. So we're clearly above that, Mrs. Minister. As far as the number of accidents is concerned, we are in the lower middle of the European Union. We have enormous numbers of accidents in Austria. As for the number of seriously injured, it has even increased in part. And that, although we have a better rescue system, although we have better emergency services, this, although car technology is getting better and better. All the protection mechanisms, airbag, Kneuchzone, electronic mechanisms et cetera, do not help us to massively reduce the numbers as it should be. And why, Mrs. Minister? – You know it just as everyone here in space: because human behavior unfortunately does not focus on the safety aspect. We have also heard of the shavers, the alcoholics – I now deliberately say the male form, although there are also female shavers or people driving under alcohol influence cars – and there we have to put on stronger, because, Mrs. Minister, the punishments alone are useless. I have also mentioned the control, but remember that we also need a reform of the pre-eminent system. Ladies and gentlemen, the most effective instrument for reducing the number of accidents in Europe is the priority system, combined with controls. But lawns, speed crossings are not a major problem in Austria. Nothing, no! Mrs Minister, there is a need for action! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No matter how little alcohol is a preeminent crime. No, you have so far failed to integrate this more effectively into the most effective instrument. In the first quarter of 2009, the number of accidents, especially in the case of alcohol drivers, increased by 25 percent. That's where the alarm signals have to ring. Mrs Minister, not only does a campaign help – please, your efforts in honor – but concrete measures need to be taken, and finally we in Parliament have decisions to take. For example, it's easy: Reform of the primary system, more controls. And the best measure is even if we shift routine traffic to public transport. That is why, Mrs Minister, I am now giving you something that serves both transport safety and climate protection, as well as the quality of life of the donors. I packed it up for you. They are the collected signatures of commuters and commuters who want them to get to work safely with public transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6373	Word has now been reported... – One second! – Mr Keck, please. [[Abg. Grillic: Who?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: After who?]] [[Abg. Bucher: The Haberzettl, hopefully!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6471	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bucher, “Vision Zero – the central concept of transport policy for fewer accidents, fewer dead and injured in road transport” is not to have a vision, but rather to have the “Vision zero” zero accidents, zero injuries and zero deaths in road traffic. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A zero vision!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But you have a zero vision!]] I think that is a truly good vision that this government has set itself as a task, and with the help of all the parties here in Parliament, this would be possible. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen! Some 5 million driving licences are currently issued in Austria. Most of the vehicle drivers are correct and considerate road users; however, this picture is destroyed by a group that is apparently uninstructable, namely the Alcolenker. If the headlines are: Car race in school group!, vehicle handlebar wipes out whole family!, or: Drivers race unabated in music chapels!, then almost always they, the Alcolenkers, are the cause of human disasters taking place on the road. In 2008, alone, Alkolenker caused 2,632 accidents in which 3,628 people were injured. In the least cases, ladies and gentlemen, the Alcolenkers themselves were affected by injuries, in the majority of them were the innocent third party – passengers, innocent pedestrians or cyclists – who were injured or even killed in these accidents. All in all, this in 2008 has brought us the highest proportion of alcohol accidents among all accidents in the last ten years, which is 6.7 percent, ladies and gentlemen. Even more shocking are the death tolls hidden in this sober statistics: 52 people lost their lives in the event of accidents in 2008, in which the alcohol has played a role; for the past 15 years, this means a maximum of nearly 1,200 killed people in accidents where alcohol was in play. Only excessive speed, priority injuries, inadvertentness at the wheel or failed overtakings cause more road traffic deaths than they pass through alcohol. Unfortunately, this figure will continue to grow, because since 2004, it has not been significantly reduced: While the rate of death in all other areas is going down and the modern car technology with ABS, with ESP, airbags, more stable bodies or better light can help everywhere else, this only helps little if the brain of the handlebar is influenced and switched off by alcohol, then accidents are caused. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore welcome all the measures taken by Transport Minister Bures to prevent further human disasters. I am pleased that the necessary and meaningful measures from the driving licence law novelle already with 1. September 2009 entered into force, as from now on, the minimum penalty for alcohol at the tax is €300, in the maximum, 5 900 € must be paid. And even repeaters are finally punished higher: Those who are caught twice or even more often must expect a driver's license withdrawal for at least six months, and in addition, the duration of the driver's licence withdrawal finally refers to the respective degree of alcoholisation. However, the most important innovation, ladies and gentlemen, is the mandatory transport coaching, which needs to be completed from 0.8 per mille alcoholization. I think of our younger and male road users in particular. For example, only last weekend a 23-year-old alcoholic with 0.86 permill blood alcohol from Leonding in Upper Austria transported the four inmates who were sitting in the car to the hospital, but therefore transported to the hospital because he injured them by an accident. He was in full agreement with the statistics: More than 85 percent of the incidents are caused by men, one fifth of them is up to 24 years of age and another 10 percent are under 30 years of age. Ladies and gentlemen – this is really also addressed to the opposition! – I think we all know the problem, and I am grateful for having a minister in office with Transport Minister Doris Bures, who is facing these problems, seeking a solution and implementing this solution – like the driving licence law Novelle, which also serves road safety. Mrs Minister, thank you very much for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6533	Mr Singer is now speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6601	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the High House and in front of the screens! In the first half of 2009, Statistics Austria reported around 17 000 accidents involving personal injury; 22 000 were injured and 287 were killed. Compared to the first half of last year, there were 5.3 percent fewer accidents with personal injury and 25 less fatalities – in principle, but this applies, and this has already been said several times: Every death victim, every seriously injured woman, man or child, in road traffic is one and one too much. The government programme of the government parties therefore paid particular attention to road safety and declared the "Vision Zero" to be the long-term objective: the complete prevention of road traffic deaths. This year, for example, the decision of the Transport Safety Package already adopted important measures to improve the protection of road users. I am thinking of the more intensive practical training of mopeds, I am thinking of the safety measures for children, I am thinking of the intensification of penalties for alcolinkers and the increased penalties for speed crossings. It is also important for me that the group of experts comes to positive results, because cyclists need special protection. In addition, it is gratifying that the economic package has decided to strengthen the expansion of unlimited rail crossings – an important reduction in special sources of risk. Ladies and gentlemen! Work on the 2011–2020 transport safety programme has recently been started in the Transport Safety Advisory Council. The ÖVP welcomes the fact that all road users will be taken into account in the new transport safety programme. The aim is to achieve a better co-operation between all those involved in road transport. Many transport safety measures are necessary to achieve this objective: improving road infrastructure, the use of transport control systems in and outside of vehicles, modern transport safety technologies, especially improving the awareness of the population and increasing public transport. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Please do it too!]] In concrete terms, I would like to address a proposal from Upper Austria, namely the establishment of zones of movement. In these zones the driving of vehicles at a much reduced speed as well as the holding and parking, for example in front of shops, should be possible, but at the same time the pedestrians in this zone are available to the entire traffic area, including the road. The common advantage of the road is not either-or, but it is an objective that is attractively designed in the inner city area for all needs. It is important for all these measures to be able to participate in the transport sector. I therefore welcome the involvement of every interested person in the transport safety programme through the online survey of the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology and the Board of Trustees for Transport Safety. In particular, I consider the involvement of the car club, the ASFINAG, the Transport Safety Advisory Council, the police, the Red Cross and fire brigades to be very important. Speaking of police, fire brigades, Red Cross: These contribute significantly to the protection of road users and thus to road safety. In addition to the principals, many volunteers are always in service, and we pay special thanks to them for the service to the benefit of our people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House and in front of the screens! Long-term objective is the complete prevention of road fatalities. To achieve this goal, we must all – all of us! – make a significant contribution. By responsible driving, by taking into account the other road users, we have it in our hands whether we are guilty of injured people or even of dead people. Let's think about it: It could meet our family, our friends, ourselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6667	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6688	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the TV devices! So far, after the speeches of the members of the government groups, we have been able to accept: Well, actually, everything is satisfactory and everything in best order, but we still have 800 to 1,000 deaths a year. These have 2,000 to 3,000 relatives, parents, children, and these rightly ask: Was all this necessary, and is really done enough – really enough! – to prevent that in the future? We have heard today that there has been this slogan of the “Vision Zero” in Sweden since 1997, so I do not want to go closer to the slogan, but to what we have in Austria. Some measures, such as sanctions on alcohol offences: Mrs. Federal Minister, I recommend you, contact specialists for laboratory medicine once and listen to what they tell you from practice when people come to the CDT test, who know exactly that alcohol is found in the blood – and yet is drunk. We have a little problem with some drivers and of course drivers, as Mrs Moser has said, because they are inconspicuous. That's where we have to step! In addition, the pre-eminence system: The evaluation of the evaluations is urgent! Or traffic control systems for flexible adjustment of speed: We only know all of this from this unnecessary IG-air limitation, as we have it in Linz, for example, with the “air-hunderter”. But other things also include: Weather changes or road conditions are planned! And a little towards the SPÖ: I do not hear today any increased hecticism to make it clear who, for example, was in charge of BMVIT, who was the Minister of Transport when these things, the premise system and the traffic control system were introduced, but we can also think about this, not only as always when it comes to whether Socialists were in the Ministry of Transport. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinzl and Mr Keck.]] What else do experts say? – They say that we need multi-stage training not only in the car sector, but also and especially in the field of moped/motorbikes. And it's also talking about the bicycles. The VCÖ always tells us, just a cyclist, bike-friendly and so on, the cyclist is already almost the one who seems to be the nonplusultra, but we also have to take into account that some cyclists are among the most aggressive road users: where really the blood sprays when they go into road traffic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also need to take into account that there is the ÖAMTC. For example, the ÖAMTC speaks of a tunnel test, and it also recommends a construction site test. He also recommends that cars do something with fire extinguishing systems or when expanding driver assistance systems. – These are things that we should tackle even further urgently and where we should do something. The ÖAMTC also says that it is not only the quick drivers who cause something; we should also take a look at it, whether people who use hat instead of helmet put in the car and then drive at 40 km/h are as dangerous as the lawns. We also have to sit there! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, what else would I wish for: The gigaliners with 60 tons and 26 meters of length have lost nothing on our roads! Mrs Federal Minister, prevent You're using them! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: This has already happened! That's already done!]] In addition, the principle should: Get away from the street!, be really thought through. There are decisions of the National Council last year, for example, the “7-Euro-Senioren-Ticket” or the “Austria-Ticket”, which will not be implemented! Mrs. Federal Minister, not only do you implement things that fit you ideologically into the system, for example, do you implement all the decisions, because in the final effect, the relatives, parents, children, and victims of traffic will ask us what we have done, and we should tell them that we have done something, and above all that we have tried to achieve fewer victims in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6759	Mr Hagen has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6780	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! When I look at the gallery, I see a lot of young people. For you, this policy is being made here – I will come back to it later, in connection with the “Vision Zero”. It has already been mentioned here: Vision zero. “Vision null” reminds me of the last week’s speech of our Federal Chancellor to a year’s Federal Government, ÖVP/SPÖ or SPÖ/ÖVP: zero ideas, zero solutions, zero visions, ladies and gentlemen! That's how it looks! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] I would also like to suggest that I consider the campaign of the Federal Minister for Alcohol to be the only positive one. I can fully support this campaign, but it does not go far enough, because it is only about alcohol. We all know that in road traffic a lot of drug drivers are on their way. This too must be countered, as the conscience needs to be sharpened. There must also be intervention, Mrs Minister, that would be the right way! The BZÖ was already a pioneer in road safety, in the transport safety campaigns, at that time, during the FPÖ and later BZÖ government. [[Abg. Heinzl:... 100 km!]] Looking back, it was a transport minister Reichhold in 2002 who took the first steps and went in the right direction. [[Abg. Heinzl:... drive faster!]] The result: From 2002, when there were 956 road fatalities, last year, the year 2008, the number fell to 679; in road accidents, it fell from 56,684 to 50,529. – So something has already been done and a proper step has been taken in the right direction, under a different government than a SPÖ/ÖVP government, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add further important measures in this campaign under BZÖ government participation. ==References== In January 2003, multi-phase driver training was introduced so that young people are accompanied in the first time of their driver's license, so that they are guided on the right path so that their boundaries are shown to them. There has been an important step! Also, January 2003: Blood test for drug drivers – a very important decision –, introduction of fast testing devices. Since July 2005, there has been the driving licence preference system, with which Moser has already mentioned that this is an important step. That's how it hurts when you're preoccupied – Germany shows it. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But there it is much more systematic and correct!]] And then in December 2005 alcohol testing equipment – also an important step in road safety. Ladies and gentlemen! As executive, I tell you that more and more controls are needed to really take a right step towards road safety. Only higher punishments, that's the wrong way! This is just about disposing, about stopping the budget holes, and we do not support this from the BZÖ. [[BZÖ and Abg. Mayerhofer.]] And when I see that the executive is missing the staff, and then Mrs Bures says as before, the police have to leave the bureaucracy, they have to get away from the desks and out on the streets, I can only say: Yes, that's well meant, but in the last few days I've heard that the PAD has been reintroduced, which the officials are even more attached to the desks, that there are hardly any more possibilities of questioning by the ZMR-new, if any letter is entered incorrectly, then the system is no longer working, and these are disabilities and no progress, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ and Abg. Mayerhofer.]] An electronic pre-order will then be introduced, which will take up to 30 minutes instead of 3 minutes. How do you want to get people on the street? You're going the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! That must be changed! When I see where you could get the money, I come to the following – quite simply! –: 4 million € in newspaper inserates by the ÖVP/SPÖ federal government during the elections in Vorarlberg and Upper Austria – 4 million! This could make a lot for safety, so that you could do a lot of educational work, so that you could hire many executive officials. – This money would be better used there! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] At the second pipe in Vorarlberg the passage has finally succeeded, finally a step has been taken. You said that there was nothing heard from Transport Minister Gorbach. The steps I mentioned earlier were all taken under Minister of Transport Gorbach. The second Pfändertunnel tube in Vorarlberg was also enforced under Minister of Transport Gorbach – a demand that I had raised for over ten years, even the ÖVP had to admit that it had been enforced ten years too late. Ladies and gentlemen! We were on the right track. If you continue this our way, then you are right, Mrs. Federal Minister, and act in accordance with the BZÖ requirements! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6874	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6895	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators here in the hall and at home! The theme of today's current hour is already a bit of an invitation to consider it ambiguous or differentiated. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But it is already a difference between ambiguous and differentiated!]] The “Vision Zero”, that is, zero traffic fatality, should not only be a vision, but also an essential goal and a matter of course, because every dead person and every dead person on Austria’s streets is one and one too many. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But if I look at transport policy, then I think it's rather “zero vision” because what you're doing in transport policy is not to promote pedestrians and pedestrians, cycling and public transport, and thus to get people away from the road, but rather to invest €15 billion in other crazy motorway projects and thereby force people on the road – that means there are more accidents. Mrs. Minister, the number of victims you mentioned is very dramatic. But what you have forgotten is – and this is just as dramatic – the many victims and the dead through fine dust and noise, because they are even more numerous than those victims we have to complain about directly on the streets. As far as road safety is concerned, I think transport policy is very visionless. However, I also consider them to be visionless and completely incomprehensible in terms of climate protection. The Transport is one of the main causes of CO2, especially in Austria. Transport CO2 emissions are even increasing in Austria. It is precisely the climate conference in Copenhagen, where the whole world is discussing how we can rethink how we can get out of the fossil energy economy, how we can reduce CO2 emissions, but you do not seem to touch it at all, because you unfortunately do not change your policy as much as the Minister of Agriculture responsible for the environment! We also need a rethinking in the transport sector at last! I can show you a concrete example of what your climate change policy means, namely, the example of the S 7 in the East Styria and the South of Burgenland, a senseless transit route. S 7 has the effect of creating more CO2 emissions per capita per year in the affected areas. This is almost as much carbon dioxide emissions as the value we actually need to reduce. The total CO2 emissions of the people living there are, as it were, consumed by this absurd project. Climate protection is therefore necessary especially in the transport sector – but not only for climate protection reasons, because climate protection also means transport safety. So you could hit two flies with a flap. That is why I do not understand why you continue your policy of continuing to invest in road construction, rather than taking other measures, such as creating more space for pedestrians and pedestrians as well as cyclists. This would result in climate change and increased road safety. Or: Temporary reductions and introduction of a truck toll as well as expansion of public transport, including increased climate protection and greater road safety. Above all, we need an ecological tax reform, which would ultimately also lead to more climate change and more transport safety. All these measures could prevent at least three million tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. This would not only contribute to greater road safety, but would save taxpayers a lot of money, because we would then have to buy fewer emission certificates and make fewer fines. We have heard this week and also in the weeks before Copenhagen that Austria is unfortunately one of the world's climate sinners. I actually feel this is very painful, because I was always proud that Austria was an environmental model country. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: (in the direction of ÖVP) You were still in school when that was!]] Unfortunately, we are not. We need to change something about this, and we need to rethink it. You too must make a contribution to this, Mrs Minister. It is time to rethink transport policy. Unfortunately, this is not recognizable at the moment. There is just as little willingness in the SPÖ transport policy as in the Ministry of Agriculture of the ÖVP, which seems to have given up environmental policy. That is why I would like to conclude by saying that I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6970	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:25:55]] Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e6991	We are now entering the announced debate on the objections to the agenda. The objections came from Dr. Rosenkranz and Mag. Mr Steinhauser concerning the abolition of item 38 from the agenda and from honourable Members' books concerning the abolition of items 38 to 40 from the agenda. A statement could be agreed between the presidents of the club. First, three founders speak with 4 minutes each. First Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7021	Madam President. High house! It is a very transparent attempt that SPÖ and ÖVP put on the agenda today the issue of children's rights and their inclusion in the Constitution. They want to distract them from covering and hiding in the investigation committee. And they want one in particular: an unloved law, for it has been on the agenda for 20 years. Just now one wants to turn it as if the opposition – Mr. Cap even meant that it was the united opposition, but we have such an organisational penetration, I can tell you that we have not yet blocked it. But then, if Parliamentaryism is in danger, it is very likely that it will be the opposition which takes various measures; so is this request, because children's rights are important, and we want to know them discussed. One thing is not right: there is no two-thirds possible in this House if it is necessary for the country and its citizens. Examples from the recent past, such as the Ecostrom Act and the Environmental Senate, show that with freedom of support, because it was something wrong, two-thirds were generated. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But here one proceeds with a “fresh bird or death tactics” by saying: We are putting this law on the agenda – even if it is a bad law in our view – we do not allow a discussion between the parties, we are simply piling this matter of law through the committee! But now Parliament wants to know that this is the typical refusal of work because a two-thirds blockade of the opposition has been announced in the Committee of Inquiry. You know that a two-thirds majority would be possible, one would discuss the law, but this law is a bad one because you only provide 9 out of 45 points for implementation. [[Call to the ÖVP: It's a good law!]] That's the problem you have. In reality, you just want to distract! You want to distract from what you have to cover up in this Republic! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They also want to divert themselves from the fact that FPÖ can be the only party here and succeeds as a child-friendly party and family party in that country. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We will see at Agenda item 1 of which you obviously want to distract, where the interests of the children in Austria are still well removed and are to remain. We will have a clear view of this at Agenda item 1. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] For those who do not know our agenda: Agenda item 1 sets out the issues on the life partnership of genders. – Here the FPÖ will clearly position itself. We believe that children's rights are so important that they need to be discussed in detail. They should not be the issue because the government parties believe that they can take a tactical advantage of it by putting it on the agenda today, so that they can point it out to us with their finger if we do not go along, and to be able to assume that we are refusing to work. – No, we do not, but we do not agree with that for purely content reasons! We do not want to allow parliamentarianism to abuse us here with the “fresh bird or death tactics”, which is not true – even if one has heard unheard-of intermediate calls from the ÖVP towards opposition that we are child abusers in the event of our rejection. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That's unheard of!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7117	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Bucher. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7139	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason is, I think, known: By putting children's rights on the agenda, one tries to sidetrack one from being unable or unwilling to discuss with the opposition a sufficient anchorage of children's rights in the Constitution and to carry out a thorough consultation on the possibilities and measures in relation to children's rights. It is rather a signal that children's rights are of no value to you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, because how else is it to explain that you suddenly think that children's rights must be enshrined in the Constitution while we have been in 19 years – I emphasize: for 19 years! – advise here in the House on how we can achieve this. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Header]] I recall the many conversations that we had during the time when we still had government responsibility, when there were some attempts from our side to convince the ÖVP to finally anchor the children's rights in the Constitution, but the ÖVP has been blocked over and over again, while you can't go fast enough now, as if from 1. In January 2010, children's rights were suddenly at risk. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it is quite clear what you are actually doing here: As a matter of fact, you just want to distract from the fact that it has become too hot for you in the investigation committee you've turned off, even that you've arbitrarily turned off. And the SPÖ did you a shot at it. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] It is unprecedented in the parliamentaryism of recent years, how opposition rights are handled here. [[Abg. Head: What opposition rights?]] That's unprecedented! I believe that there has never been such a thing in the House: that a single party in this Republic determines where it is going long, namely the ÖVP. Then: Whenever it comes to ÖVP matters in recent years, it is premature or, better to say, in time before the investigation committee has been terminated and turned off in all the painterries, so to speak. [[Abg. Oils: Always!]] We do not want to allow this, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, not only from the BZÖ, but also from the Greens and the Freedoms, whom I would like to thank for their insight. In an alliance of opposition, we want to ensure – in a kind of emergency defence measure – that one does not look away that one does not accept what is happening here, without actively pointing out that opposition rights in this House must not be handled as shamelessly as you do in the red-black coalition. [[I should like to congratulate the BZÖ and the Greens.]] The background is clear, namely that you are not at all concerned with strengthening minority rights. [[Abg. Head: What minority rights?]] In fact, you are not concerned with this, although we have adopted a five-party resolution proposal which has the content of providing for further minority rights in the Rules of Procedure next year. But you want to stop that now, you want to stop it. In fact, you want to achieve by this measure that it is not at all possible to establish the minority right to set up investigation committees! This is the actual background of this behind-drivingness that you show. And we strongly reject that!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7257	Mr Pilz, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Pilz on his 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7279	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to creating a budget, a National Council holding it has two major tasks: Laws to develop and decide and control the administration and the government. These two major tasks are currently hindered by a minority in this Parliament – and this is the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Not only do we have a control emergency, but we also have a legislative emergency. And this legislative emergency is becoming very visible today: The ÖVP says that children's rights are so important, and so to speak, gives them up as agenda item 38 in the time around midnight. A “middle law” should give the Austrian children something! But what it's really about, I'm telling you that for a moment now. It is about six children's rights of 45 that the United Nations demands of us. But the most important rights in the UN Convention are those which the EIA does not want in the Constitution because it is the rights of poor and disadvantaged children! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Why – Explain Mr Cap and Mr Cheysson. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. – should not the right of children not to live in poverty be included in the Austrian federal constitution, although it is in the UN Convention? Why should the right to education not be included in the Austrian federal constitution, although it is in the UN Convention? Is it really about protecting only the typical children of the ÖVP, the children of the better, the children of the elites, the children of the wealthy by the constitution, or is it worth the hundred thousand children – a hundred thousand – who are still living in poverty in Austria today, namely, 30 000 of them, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, in red Vienna, the protection by the Austrian federal constitution, in particular? [[Abg. Steibl: You don't even know yourself! It's only Palaver!]] That is why it is possible to lay down rights for all children, in particular social, educational and anti-discrimination rights in the Austrian Constitution, rather than ÖVP children's rights! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] That's why we suggest: Take this back and negotiate once decently and openly with the opposition! You didn't negotiate with the opposition for a minute. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true! There have been several conversations!]] You said: We put it on the table, we sign it, we want the two-thirds majority of you! [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the times when the ÖVP has led the whole Parliament around the nose ring and controlled everything are over! The voters in their great wisdom have taken the two-thirds majority of SPÖ and ÖVP – and we now have the responsibility to deal with this two-thirds majority carefully in order to guarantee better laws and effective control! Today we will put forward a motion for a resolution which has the content of including all children's rights in the Constitution. And we will use the time of the government blockade, the ministerial blockade and the U-committee blockade from the ÖVP until the end of March to negotiate better laws with you, not only for children, but also in the area of data protection, ecology and in many other areas. Finally, take note of the following: This Parliament no longer belongs to the ÖVP! This is a Parliament in which the opposition is in the interests of the people! [[Abg. Steibl: Always makes a vortex!]] Our offer applies: Together we make better laws – but without a dictatorship from the Austrian People's Party! – and we are taking a first step today! Let us put off this completely unsuccessful initiative to exclude the essential rights of children from the Constitution from the agenda! Let us jointly negotiate the inclusion of all 45 children's rights in the Austrian Constitution! Give up your control blockade and your anti-parliamentary attitude and finally let this Parliament control and work! [[ongoing calls to the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7406	Mrs Lueger is now speaking. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7428	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! With regard to children's rights, I would like to look back very briefly at the story: ==References== In September of this year, Peter Wittmann and I jointly made a press conference on the inclusion of children's rights in the Constitution. We have publicly presented the expert paper of the Constitutional Convention at that time and have said that it should serve as the basis for the negotiations. There were then two rounds of negotiations with the EIA, in which we have drawn up a joint proposal, which we want to make a decision today. I would now like to address the Committee briefly. [[Abg. Scheibner: How many rounds of negotiations with the opposition?]] On the part of the opposition parties, especially on the part of the Greens, the Committee has been introduced, the right to education, the right to participation and the right to health are missing. A wide range of constitutional provisions already lay down the freedom of education, the right to grant public law and the right to education. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: Total school!]] Thus, the right to education is a subjective right in the constitutional order for each individual who cannot be violated by the legislator. This is a fundamental right that every person here in Austria has. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say that both in the State Treaty of St. Germain and in the State Treaty on the restoration of an independent and democratic Austria – yes, these are already very old laws, and yet – the Constitutional provision has already been made regarding a minority school system. – So the second point is also fulfilled. In Article 2 of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 20th century In 1952, no one was allowed to deny the right to education. – I think I have documented enough about education that these rights are already anchored. [[Abg. Oil: Ah yes! A "super" argumentation!]] Furthermore, in 2005 the Federal Constitution was published in Article 14 para. 5a: Children and young people are “to enable the best possible spiritual, emotional and physical development so that they become healthy, self - conscious, happy, performance - oriented, conscientious, musical and creative people capable of taking responsibility for themselves, fellow humans, the environment and subsequent generations. ” [[Abg. Oillinger: Now I understand why the cap didn't want to talk!]] Austrian legislation has also protected the health of children in social security legislation. This is anchored in the ASVG, the GSVG and the BSVG to name just a few laws. On the other hand, the Greens have always been brought together medially and also to various organisations, that they want to make an application for expert hearing, but apparently they have already taken the decision on opposition blockade before, because you never and nowhere have you put this request for expert hearing in any body. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: The Committee!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Learn the Rules of Procedure before you come here...!]] Three points were made on the part of the FPÖ: The concept of the family is missing. – In our opinion, this is contained in Article 2 of the proposal. The care is missing. – This is also contained in Article 2 of the template for the benefit of the child. And the “healthy Wach’n” is missing – but that, ladies and gentlemen, was abolished 20 years ago. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: speaking time!]] I am very sorry that you will not agree to this law today because of your opposition blockade.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7558	Ladies and gentlemen, your speaking time is over. [[In the case of the SPÖ and the ÖVP representatives, please welcome the speaker's report. Listen to me.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: The SPÖ as an auxiliary police force of the ÖVP! To get the hell out of here!]] Next, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7595	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! You are presented with something that does not provide for the theory of parliamentarism, but the practice is prepared to present you daily as an example of the view, namely the separation of elevated content of claims and the actual refusal of reality-related legal measures. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What?]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Pretty incomprehensible!]] Theoretically, it sounds to me to implement children's rights in the Constitution, yes, very beautiful, and the Freedom Party would have nothing against it, even if it was used for the ridiculously imaginative commenting of my own kind on the Green Club, if it had not been denied enough to negotiate it with the other parties of the House and to reflect on what simple legal level the children's rights enshrined in the Constitution are designed in reality, because at this level the majority of the House consistently prevents the improvements of children's rights related to reality. [[Abg. New gebauer:... cut language! Baroque!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Very Baroque!]] A point that is very important, namely the custody of child welfare – especially as it leads to conflicts when parental separation occurs – is consistently depleted. We have been able to experience in recent weeks that the European Court of Human Rights, as a result of a complaint from a father from the Federal Republic of Germany, to whom the rights of encounter with his child have been denied, has qualified as illegal to human rights. At the level of Austrian opportunities, we have taken several initiatives which have been debated in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs, which have also been debated in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs, in order to bring about the legal situation, that both parents should be drawn to care or that both parents should be concerned. Why? – A very large part of the dispute between children, especially the young children, is based on the fact that it serves as a conflict substance to which the two parents are entitled the care. Of course, it is true that in many cases there is agreement among the parents, but in many cases the child is abused as a weapon and the effect of years of judicial disputes being fought on the back of the children and that with ice colds, under complete neglect of the primary rights given to the child – that is the child’s well-being! – on the back of these innocent people who are defenseless, parental fights are carried out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In order to remedy this, there would be legal possibilities to turn the spear around and first to provide for common legal care and only in the event of absolute inconsistency may one of the two parents withdraw the obsorial right. – No, the majority of the house is not ready to do so, but you carry out great theoretical skyscrapers because a constitutional possibility that is desired is not introduced frontab. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7685	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7706	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The united opposition has taken place until the end of March to block all the laws requiring a two-thirds majority here in this House. [[Call the ÖVP – in the direction of the Greens in whose rows a poster is passed forward –:Reset posters! Yes, yes!]] Now we are finally so far that after years of discussion we have a bill in the house that would allow us to write children's rights – wanted by all – into the constitution and to anchor them in our federal constitution. [[Deputies Brosz, Oellinger and Windbühler-Souschill hold a poster on a board with the title "Child rights-Lotto – only 6 out of 45. We don’t do that!” in the height on which the logo of the Greens as well as 39 children’s symbols in white circles and 6 children’s symbols can be seen in larger, green circles.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is the famous "Brett in front of the head"!]] It is already evidenced by a strange concept of democracy, ladies and gentlemen, that with your blockade – with your package blockade – you prevent the anchoring of children's rights in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7752	Mr. Klubobmann, please wait a minute. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you have shown the poster, I may ask you to remove it again. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7785	Ladies and gentlemen! Your request for the removal of this item from today's agenda shows, on the one hand, the insanity of your behaviour and, on the other hand, your helplessness in which you have entered yourself with your total blockade. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is to say, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, there is still time for the vote on this point. I would urge you to reconsider your behaviour. We will also give the public the opportunity to see who is in the Constitution for the anchoring of children's rights and who in this House only speaks of it, but then at the end of the day does not do it, in whom acts and words separate, namely, from the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7868	Next, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e7889	Madam President. Mr. Klubobmann's head! Their statements today already have a lot to do with the arrogance of power. It's really incredible! Do you seriously believe, Mr Klubobmann's head, that there is a single freely elected representative in this House who seriously opposes the strengthening of children's rights and the writing into the Constitution? – You don't believe that yourself! [[Abg. Head: Then show it!]] This is a matter of course, Mr Klubobmann's head! That's ridiculous what you're doing here for the best. [[It was in favour of BZÖ and FPÖ, as well as of representatives of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Head: Painful!]] It's just a question of how. If you do not bring it together to write the essential points of the UN Convention into the Austrian Constitution, then you have actually failed today, and that is also the point. [[Abg. Head: Isn't that embarrassing to you?]] Take it pragmatically: Today's proposal and debate on the decommissioning of the item on the agenda will give you the opportunity of red and black – red is just looking away hard – to avoid voting down. You will lose the vote here in this House today, not because we have some alliance, but because it is simply bad what you have presented, because it is too little, and because, as Mr Pilz has quite rightly said, you simply have not taken into account in the Constitution the essential points concerning the poverty of some 150,000 children who are threatened with acute poverty in this country. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's what they want!]] That is why we reject the draft law today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But one thing is remarkable: that today you are taking this matter with a “dirty trick” – this is nothing but a “dirty trick” – the matter, the anchoring of children’s rights in the Constitution, as a distraction of your refusal to control and your refusal to carry out proper committees here in the House, because it’s embarrassing – it’s really embarrassing! – it is incompetent and it is really not acceptable that you simply turn off an investigation committee and not even produce a report on it. This is really a abdominal spot like the two government parties. [[It was in favour of BZÖ and FPÖ, as well as of representatives of the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Should children's rights wait until the end of the legislative period?]] The social democracy in its futility – Josef Cap is just reading “NEWS” under the bank – is all grudging. That's the vision zero party, we've heard today. Zero vision, therefore zero vision, as far as proper control in this House is concerned, and zero vision to truly lay down children's rights in the Constitution. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Vision Zero Party SPÖ: Klubobmann Cap has spoken out, has withdrawn his speech – it doesn't matter, everything doesn't matter. It is “not so important” that the control is no longer carried out in this House, because everything is turned off that is tricked in this House even in television broadcasts – next “dirty trick” – that there are only two hours of transmission whenever the opposition calls up a special meeting; otherwise we have three, four or five hours of transmission, but there is deleted. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You don't know how you get out of the blockade anymore! You don't know!]] Or: a parliamentarian from your party, who has recently come out with interviews showing that she has nothing better to do than think about promoting ungrateful members of the opposition with an occasion legislation from Parliament. – Congratulations, also “Wonderful”, such a Parliamentary President! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You don't know what to do with your blockade! You don't know!]] All that you are doing here is nothing but the systematic erodement of democracy and parliamentarianism, in which the ÖVP has historical experience – and the SPÖ is now taking part. That is the truth here in this House, and that is why we want to put this item on the agenda. Finally return to reason! Push You don't have any precepts on children's rights. The issue is far too serious to be abused by you as an instrument against parliamentaryism and control.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e8089	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e8111	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A sentence on the agenda, as it stands: I have already mentioned this in the presidency, and it has already been reported in the media today. It's always the same thing: Always in July and December, the agenda has been fully grafted, has nearly 100 points, so that the population knows how to work here, because the Austrian Parliament – which is going through like a red thread – is almost exclusively determined by the government, and the government always manages to wait until the last day and then everything – essentially without reasonable negotiations – comes into being here. This problem is going through. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of BZÖ and FPÖ.]] In this case – children’s rights issue – I think we need to note only more: There are enough children's rights organisations and children's organisations that warn against accepting this draft, as you have put it here. That means – remember this now at last! – there are also a number of factual objections to which you have not responded, just so that you can celebrate your strange game today that the opposition is to blame for anything. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You have to invent something!]] [[Call the ÖVP: A pretext!]] You know, this Parliament has the status of the Parliament of a developing country, and I will bring you a quote. In fact, it is the government that regularly carries out this spectacle with the help of the representatives of the government parties. And by the way, one last thing about children's rights: The ÖVP has managed to enforce itself again. They are actually rights for the children of the rich and rights for the children of their clients. This has nothing to do with poverty reduction, but that is the minimum that would be needed at this point! They also remain under Josef Pröll the party of the social cold. There you can switch so many ads to tax money costs, that will no longer help you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Unimaginable!]] But now on further demands and rights of the population. We've told you a couple of times and we're staying there: The population has a right to a functioning Parliament. For this we are elected, for which we are paid: that here with serious and self-confident – self-confident, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, as Members! – laws are made and, second, but also – and this is very important – parliamentary control works. [[Abg. Steibl: We have also been elected! We too, not just the greens! And that with a majority!]] You do this with feet, and that regularly – also again when this investigation committee is strangled. That's something! People just need to know what it's about: Post-chacher, party, political justice, influence of the prosecutor's office, party financing. – All of this would have gotten on the tapet now, so you got cold feet and ran away as fast as you could. But it won't help you! And you're also being watched elsewhere. I can quote an article from the “South German Newspaper”, by Michael Frank, an Austrian expert: ‘Austria as a prey. The parties of the great coalition in Vienna do what they want with state and parliament. (...) As regards understanding and practice of parliamentary control rights, Austria is still a developing country." That's what the "South German" says about what you're doing here, and the commentators are right. That's right – and not anything you tell me here. [[Abg. Großruck: This is a reader's letter from you!]] For this reason, the opposition parties have joined forces because there is an emergency situation in this Parliament: an emergency of transparency and control rights! But our hand remains outstretched! It's a total nonsense what you're feeling here: Regular discussions – if you want to, negotiations – are conducted on various materials, on very important materials – are held daily, and that is what you negate. We're just saying: We do not agree with two thirds until you are finally clear and once we open up the minimum control rights within the meaning of a transparent Parliament. [[Congratulation with Greens, BZÖ and FPÖ.]] – That’s the only point! That's how long we're going to fight, and we're gonna get through at the end. We will see what your signatures are worth, Mr Head, Mr Cap, that the committee of inquiry becomes minority law. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Nothing worth it!]] [[Abg. Head: Don't worry!]] – In three months we will know.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e8266	No one is reporting on this. We shall proceed to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the amendments tabled by Mr Bucher concerning the abolition of points 38 to 40 of the agenda. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the objections of Dr Rosenkranz and Mag. Mr Steinhauser on the assignment of item 38 from the agenda. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is also the minority. Rejected. The agenda for today's sitting, which has been communicated in writing, remains valid. [[10:59:38]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e8316	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e8481	The debate on points 1 to 5, 6 to 8, 11 to 16, 17 and 18, 20 to 22, 23 and 24, 25 and 26, 27 to 30 is proposed. 31 to 34, 38 to 40, 43 to 45, 47 to 49 and 51 to 52 of the agenda. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e8514	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 10 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 135 minutes, free 120 minutes as well as BZÖ and greens per 105 minutes. For the duration of the television direct broadcast after the current hour or now after the debate on the application, the following time was agreed: first round of speakers with 8 minutes per group, one member of the government of the ÖVP 8 minutes, another round of speakers with 4 minutes per group, one member of the government 8 minutes and another round of speakers with 3 minutes per group. Before the beginning of the final round, the President-in-Office, after consulting the presidents of the club, shall distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television period. There is also agreement that actual corrections will only be called after the end of the television broadcast. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:01:25]] 1. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (485, e.g._Other Organiser German Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the thethe Land and forestry law of state teachers' service law, the Land and Forestry Workers' Service Law, the Pension Law 1965, the German Law on Pension Pensions, the German Law on Pensions, the Law on Pensions and Pensions, the Law on Pensions, the Law on Pensions and Pensions, the Law on Pensions, the Law on Pensions, the Law on Pensions, the Law on Pensions, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the 2. Point Report and request of the Justice Committee on a Federal Act containing the Civil Engineering Chamber Act 1993, BGBl. I No. 157/1994, amended (559 d.a.) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Legal Affairs Committee on a Federal Constitutional Act, with which the Federal Constitutional Act on the Limitation of Remunerations of Official Officials, BGBl. I No. 64/1997, amended (560 d.a.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 18/A by Mr Mag. Ulrike Lunacek, colleagues on a federal law amending the General Civil Code (561 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment No 19/A by Mr Mag. Ulrike Lunacek, colleagues concerning a federal law establishing the Federal Law on the Civil Pact (ZIP-G) and the General Civil Code, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Seas of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the Laws on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the Law for the Law for the the the the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law for the Law on the Law
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e8610	We come to points 1 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e8643	Madam President, My dear Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today the so-called gay marriage is to be decided against the will of the majority of the Austrians. Of course, the actions of the former family party of Austria, the Austrian People's Party, which as a family party has completely resigned, are also particularly interesting in this respect and have also taken part in the history of the Zeitgeist. Of course, this one tries to present this differently today with dubious reasons, but this is a fatal social policy signal that you – as the Austrian People's Party – place here today. There was nothing else to be expected of red and green in the question, but it would have been expected of a supposed Christian ÖVP, and the bourgeois voters would have expected something else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] This is how we deal with the institution of marriage and the family so that we start to undermine and undermine them – and for this you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, will certainly get the bill presented by the voters. I can promise you today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the outset, I would like to make it clear: Sexual orientation and lifestyle are one thing. Everyone should do what he wants – this is a private matter as long as the partners agree and do not violate existing laws. Sexuality and love are private, and everyone should handle it as he pleases. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] There should also be no discrimination. Of course, everyone should be able to visit his partner in the hospital, no matter what kind of partnership he is in, and, of course, there must also be equality in terms of housing rights and other areas to be regulated. This is one thing, but it is quite another if a society is to benefit from a private life decision – in which case the cohabitation of homosexual couples – against other forms of living together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] This is reserved exclusively for marriage between husband and wife. At the Homo-Eh – and this is a kind of gay marriage that is decided today; They call them “enrolled partnership” – this is a similar privilege to other forms of non-marital living. At the outset, the essential question arises which special benefits justify the State against such special treatment at all. What has been the reason until now why the family – the marriage between husband and wife – had a special status? – This was not because two people love, love, or live their sexuality in the private rooms at home. No, that was not the reason for the privilege, but the special position of marriage between man and woman is therefore the result of which children can emerge and which is the social-political sense of privilege – and not that two people love or engage in sexuality and we want to subsidise sexuality or love. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] No, the state has made it quite clear that the privilege was therefore also enshrined by law, because it is about making children possible to promote it, thus giving our state and society the future and fulfilling the generation contract. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is very good without marriage!]] In the case of sexual relations, Mrs Glavischnig, it is not possible, in my opinion, to bear children – of course, this is not possible among the same-sex couples. [[Abg. Oils: Have an idea!]] But it is interesting that there are apparently still some representatives here who believe that this could be biologically possible. [[Call the ÖVP: Is this a biology lecture now?]] No, that is not possible, and that is why one should not compare or equalise inequalities. Sexuality is one thing, sexuality is private, and when homosexual groups today with the saying: Just as much right for the same love!, advertise, then that is exactly the error. This is precisely the error in the argument, because the state rewards with the legal institution of marriage not the love between spouses, but the intention – and, if one wants to do so, the contractual promise – to put children in view, which is made possible by marriage between husband and wife. The chance for children is improved by marriage. After all, marriage is defined in the Civil Code in such a way that two persons of different sex declare their will to live in inseparable communities and to bear children, to raise them and to provide mutual assistance. It is not about adopting children, it is about bearing children. This is how the Civil Code speaks, and that is the core of the decisive difference. That's exactly what we are experiencing today – that you want to undermine and undermine it! That alone is also the reason why in all societies, legal systems and religions there has not and does not exist a legal institution comparable to marriage. The State does not say: I privilege you because you love yourselves so much!, but: I privilege you – and so it has generally been in all the countries of the world – because I expect you to have the basic willingness to witness children and that is also biologically possible. [[Abg. May. Musiol: What about 60-year-old couples who marry?]] This is the background of privilege. Of course, there are also grey zones, of course there are also heterosexual couples who, despite marriage, do not want children or, unfortunately, cannot get them, but this moves in the promille area and therefore does not need any special legal consideration. [[Abg. Oils: Could 70-year-olds still marry?]] On the other hand, in the case of a gender partnership, it is from the outset such that there is no possibility of childbearing, no means of witnessing, and that is the decisive difference. It is always talking about discrimination, but what kind of discrimination is that supposed to be? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ollinger and Mr Grosz.]] A State is not obliged, in the opinion of the Constitutional Court or after the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, to enable marriage among couples of equal sex or to legislate other forms of cohabitation in addition to the legal institution of marriage. There is simply no discrimination, that is the truth. Of course, I would also like to remind ÖVP of the Episcopal Conference, where the Austrian bishops took a position on the draft law on the registered partnership, the so-called Homo-Ehe. It states, inter alia, that it is to be feared that ‘the present draft, in the event of its entry into force, provides the prerequisite for a development which, at the end of the day, leads to a complete equality of the ‘entered partnership’ with marriage.’ [[Abg. Grosz: There is also...!]] I also quote what the Episcopal Conference has written down: ‘The Austrian Bishops therefore consider that the introduction of a ‘Subscribed Partnership’ for homosexual couples is neither appropriate nor necessary because the existing civil law provisions give the corresponding guarantees.’ I would also like to quote: “The family is entitled to certain rights on the basis of marriage between husband and wife. This is not a privilege, because the family provides services based on marriage, especially with regard to the education of children. A transfer of such rights to same-sex couples is not justified.” Finally, the Conference of Bishops states in a press statement that there are fundamental issues and fundamental values of society, and encourages all representatives of the Christian faith to follow their conscience and make a careful judgment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we will vote for a nameable vote today to see how the former family party ÖVP – who has resigned as a family party – will vote on this issue and see how the new family party in Austria – the Freedom Party – represents a very clear position here today, namely a yes to the family and to strengthen a child-rich and child-friendly society. [[Call the ÖVP: Go, go!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This makes the difference, and my colleagues will still comment on the other technical problems of the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e8828	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e8850	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear spectators here on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! [[Abg. Weinzinger: Seers-ins mean that!]] Mr Klubobmann Strache, I can assure you in two points right at the beginning. First: We don't decide gay marriage. Even if you still emphasize and express this so often, it is not the case – the Austrian People's Party is clearly opposed to this too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Sure! At least it's up to you!]] Secondly, The Austrian People's Party to worry about is still the family party in this country and will remain. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Deputies Dr. Graf and Kickl:Ha ha!]] We will still have the opportunity to show who is on the side of the families and the children and who is not on the issue of children's rights in the Constitution today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP towards FPÖ: Take a look at it in your own series!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, with today's decision-making of this law on registered partnerships, we end and complete a long-standing process of many discussions, intensive negotiations, and also some discussions. [[Abg. Weinzinger: What does that mean “process”?! This is a request of the minority that is rejected by the population!]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: This is not a process!]] But I have hardly ever experienced a subject, ladies and gentlemen, and these calls, which are now very excited, show that – which was characterized by so many emotions, but also by both sides – by the most ardent advocates and the most convinced opponents – unfortunately, they have also been influenced by a lot of polemics. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I have hardly ever experienced a subject that has received such high public attention, in which a sentence could already become a headline or a top-notch on the radio, and I think there are also a few issues in our daily political life that are discussed in such a excited, even sometimes hysteria-bound form as this very simple question that we are answering with this law today. The question is whether two people who want to take responsibility for each other in the long term and want to be there for each other, including a legal framework, should be given legal protection. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Why not for the same sex...!]] This simple question, ladies and gentlemen, we are answering this today's law decision on the registered partnerships with a clear "yes" – just as we, for our conviction and for objective reasons, reject the opening of marriage for same-sex societies with a clear "no". In this way we also ensure marriage as a special institution, which serves the production and education of children and thus also provides an important basis for the survival of people and our society – and in the future we will continue to stick to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We do, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, with this law today, nothing more than fulfilling our role as legislators. This is to give people in this country legal framework conditions which they need and which they have not had so far. To the address of some of my interlocutors – I do not know whether Mr Stadler will speak today; in the Committee on Justice, this was a very strong issue: [[Abg. Strache: I think he's silent today!]] In my opinion, it is not for us – and we, the Austrian People's Party, do not take that into account – to write or modify religious commandments or to interpret the Bible, the Old and the New Testament. We are not called to do this, but others are called, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kickl: We don't need that either!]] In my view, therefore, it is also not appropriate, in my opinion, to state this political day-to-day business – to give legal frameworks, to create legal rules – straight away to the issue of faith and conscience, and thus, from my point of view, to misuse religion and religious feelings for small political money. Let's leave this away and leave the church where it belongs, in the village or in the city! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us look at the law that we have to decide today, purely objectively. Mr Klubobmann Strache, you may be able to look at this subject. It is simply social reality that there are people of the same sex who want to live together permanently. This is our rule of law, as you yourself have stressed, Mr Klubobmann Strache, even now not fundamentally foreign and is not entirely new either. [[Abg. Strache: The Bishops' Conference doesn't like to hear that! You don't care what she says?- Oh, my God!]] Even now, communities of two people have been legally recognized by the same sexes, and there are also various laws which have legal consequences for these communities. [[Abg. Kickl: Come on!]] [[Abg. Strache: That’s why we don’t need a form of marriage, even if you call it “enrolled partnership”!]] In particular, constitutional provisions here in Austria – the prohibition of discrimination – prohibit us from taking into account the fact that there is no justified disparity between equal and different sex communities. What, however, ladies and gentlemen, has so far really been missing, this is a legal institution of its own, which not only gives legal consequences to the real communities of life, which has already existed, but also gives both partners legal clarity and legal certainty in relation to each other. We want to close this gap with today's partnership law – no more or less. We are creating rules with this law today, when and by whom such a partnership can be concluded. For example, what is very important to us is that the maturity is also a prerequisite for such a registered partnership. We create rules that assign to the registered partners in relation to each other certain rights, but also – and this was always very important to us in the negotiations – obligations and thus also provide legal certainty, and we also create rules on what conditions such a partnership can be dissolved again and which consequences are linked to such a resolution for the individual partners. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That’s the partnership, isn’t it?]] We say – and, ladies and gentlemen, please be careful, because this will also be important for the decision – but also very clear in this law what we do not want, for example the adoption of children by two equal-sex partners. [[Abg. Kickl: You can't stop that!]] This is important, therefore, because children should in principle have the opportunity and the opportunity to have father and mother, i.e. two parents of different sexes. This is important to us, and that is what we have enforced by this law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One more word on the much debated question of authority, because it has always been made such a question of flags. I also think that this question is completely overvalued, and we could also try to discuss it without emotion once we are able to do so, ladies and gentlemen, very much. [[Abg. Strache: You're cavering in the marriage!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: We don't want to discuss at all, we don't need to discuss!]] Yes, if you do not want to discuss it, you do not have to sit here, that is your business, Mr President. – We want to discuss and we want to discuss matters. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: You don't discuss! You're a driver of gay marriage! Donnerbauer as a speaker for the Homo-Ehe!]] I believe that there is such a partnership, that there is a legal framework, that there are legal rules and that legal consequences are also linked to such a partnership. In my view, it is not a matter of priority to which authority such a partnership is ultimately concluded. There are also very good reasons for this, for example, the reasons for the administrative economy, because it will be a significantly smaller number – as we all agree – which will enter into such a partnership, so that it is not necessary and useful for all the standing officials in Austria to have these very complex, also international rules ready and always have to keep up-to-date and update, but that specialised staff authorities will be responsible to the district authorities. – This too is an objectively well-founded decision, and in my opinion, right and good decision. [[Abg. Kickl: And what about reasons for conscience?- Oh, my God!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I honestly do not understand the excitement because we can discuss this law just as without emotion as many other laws do. I don't know why you're just putting emotions into play, why you don't just argue and justify this thing on the subject. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You are no longer even involved in such a topic! Shame!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] I believe that we have achieved a good compromise with this law, which is important to me, especially from the point of view of the Austrian People's Party, which, on the one hand, on the one hand, has provided legal certainty to those who just want and need such an instrument, who also give something to society through living together, through taking care of each other, on the other, but on the other hand – and that is particularly important to us, Mr Klubobmann Strache; listen carefully! – guarantees that we want to continue to recognise the special importance of marriage and family law and that we continue to know it further. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who pays for the administrative reform?]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You are not...! Shame!]] [[Abg. Strache: You cave in the marriage and undermine it!]] With this decision, we also want to further protect the well-being of our children and their right to mother and father. And you can be sure that the Austrian People's Party will continue to be a guarantee of this in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] I can It is therefore...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e9239	The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e9254	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I can therefore invite you to accept this law without any doubt. The interests of the families and the children are also fully respected by this legislative decision today, and the Austrian People's Party is a very good one. [[Abg. That's the joke of the day!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e9305	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e9327	Ladies and gentlemen! We have been discussing for many years the question of a registered partnership for homosexuals, partly very violent. It's always about a conscience decision. In any event, this is a very sensitive decision, and we, the BZÖ, have, of course, released this vote. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] - I don't know what to laugh at. It is interesting that one laughs at the fact that a Member can freely vote according to his conscience here in the House. That should be a matter of course! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If that's not your case, it's yours. [[towards FPÖ]] In the same way, it is quite strange what the ÖVP is doing. For us, it is not a criterion of decision, what the Conference of Bishops says about it, but the Conference of Bishops has recommended – and I now assume, your honourable Member, that it is free to decide according to the conscience. It's strange that that didn't find a response at all in the ÖVP. No, there's the club force, and I'm not so sure, Mr. Klubobmann's head... – The children's rights are already being brought back, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Wheeler: Children's rights! Give it free!]] This is the stereotype: the children's rights! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And this at the Homo-Eh!]] We'll hear that in five years, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, if ordinary parliamentaryism, proper handling of the opposition, a free mandate for all Members, then we will have no problem with these votes! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would also like to say the following about this debate: If, on the one hand, people who are in favour of this registered partnership are despised, then that is not all right. But on the other hand, it is not all right for someone, if he is against this institution according to his conscience, to be criticized, and to be presented as not liberal. This too is not all right, ladies and gentlemen, but it should normally be debated properly. In the case of us at BZÖ, it will be the case that the vast majority will vote against this proposal, some will be in favour. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How do you want to know? How do you know how people vote?]] – Because we had a democratic debate in the club! This also distinguishes us from you, from the FPÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For us too, there is no doubt that there is a need for regulation. And for us as a liberal legal force here in the Austrian Parliament it is clear: How a person lives together, how people want to shape their common life, that should be theirs. The state should not intervene, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Eben!]] If there are people, whether heterosexual or gender-oriented, who say we want to legitimize our connection, then this should be possible. The fact that we are now introducing provisions in this law, where this can be done and where it is not, not at the office, that is foreordain, ladies and gentlemen. If people want to sign this at the office, they should be able to do it. This is not at all the debate. The problem with this law – and I too have a problem – is that this very principle of self-determination has not been introduced. Instead of taking the chance to respond to this new way of living together, you do something different. The concept of inseparability of marriage is a story of two hundred years ago. That's the problem. We will have a anniversary next year, 200 years of ABGB from 1811. This inseparableness of marriage is the result. We know that in reality – Mr. Strache, we all do – that is no longer the case. As a result, hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of problems arise: through the matrimonial law of the ABGB of 1811 and from 1938 after the “connectation. ” Instead of taking the opportunity to respond to the new social circumstances and to establish a modern kind of partnership for heterosexuals and homosexuals, you are forcing this registered partnership into this old corset of the ABGB from 1811. This is really missing, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, but as you did, it is completely wrong! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you say the state is not supposed to interfere, I'll get away from you: Well, he's interfering! I understand you're saying, yes, that's an important symbol. – Okay, but you don’t do anything good to those concerned, because you also have to think about the end of such partnerships, because that is no longer self-determined. If people think after two, three, five years, we don't understand each other anymore, we're going apart – that's reality nowadays – then suddenly the judge comes, then the lawyer comes, and you have to prove who's guilty. Is there a principle of destruction? What about the maintenance – perhaps for a lifetime? Who's to blame at the end of the relationship? – This is not a modern right for a partnership, whether heterosexual or homosexual. That's totally wrong! That is why I reject this law. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: What's going on? – A year market of vanity?]] The second reason why I reject it, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are of the following opinion: No matter whether heterosexual or homosexual, regardless of the sacral meaning of marriage – I agree here, and also the legislator has to stand out accordingly – the privilege of a community is only appropriate for the state where there are children: for example, in social security law, for example in tax law, for example, when it comes to supply rights. Where is a registered partnership, where is it clear that no children can be present, place for these privileges, ladies and gentlemen? You too from the ÖVP support one to one marriage right over it. I tell you quite honestly – once again: If two people live together who do not have children, they should do so. And if they decide autonomously that one of the two does not pursue employment, then they should do so. But why is this decision, the consequence of this decision, that only half the social security fee for the other partner will be transferred to the entire Community of social security contributions? That's not understandable! Why should there be single-earner deposits here? Why should there be pensions for people who decide for themselves that they want to live together without children, ladies and gentlemen? All of this is dealt with in the same way. That is the same thing, and that is wrong, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's why I say: It would be important to make a regulation, but it has been misregulated in that case. We will therefore make a referral request to give you once again the opportunity to discuss it intensively. It's not enough for me to just put a symbol in order to give a wrong law, a bad law the consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e9463	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e9485	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only say at the beginning that it is pleasant here: Those who have experienced the debate in the Committee on Justice and today's debate, although there have been interlocutory calls, can see that it is better today than we discussed in the Committee, because it is important to have such discussions. I would like to tell Mr Scheibner: We are certainly different in content, but about the way in which discussions on life forms are discussed, about what our social development actually represents, and what we here as parliamentarians are obliged to respond and participate in it, should truly exist in a calmer form. It should be a matter of priority here, and not so much call for intermediates, which are evidence of indifference. I think it is good if we continue the discussion here the way we have started it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a big step – it could have been a bigger step too – that we are taking today. I had a discussion, a party pro-gram discussion with different people, and when we made this issue, an old lady asked me why the subject is so big. [[Abg. Kickl: You invented the nonsense yourself!]] She asked me if it was not in the sense of the state that people felt affection for each other instead of expressing hatred that they support each other instead of ignoring each other, and that they respect each other and help each other instead of hindering each other. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] She then asked me what the problem is that we do not take into account life forms that are quite simply everyday – I can only give Mr Scheibner the right thing, we cannot ignore what is happening around us – and why the state should not offer this possibility. I can tell you where the problem lies. The problem is that we are far too little in dealing with the situation of individuals, dealing with the situation of minorities and understanding too little why it is and why there are problems. How are these people being dealt with and how do they feel that they are being dealt with? We should ask the question: Is that what we want? Do we really want individuals of us to be treated like this? – I am now talking about a wide range of different areas. I believe that if we deal with this, if we do not ignore it and perhaps use it to make the mood and to hate individual groups – whether they are foreign workers, foreigners or asylum seekers in the most diverse areas – if we do not, then in all cases we come to a reasonable solution. I am very glad that it succeeded to take a step in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, the political struggle against discrimination against homosexuality has lasted for a very long time. Under Christian Broda it was possible for the first time in 1971 to stop the total ban on homosexuality. When we consider that we did not take this step in Austria until 1971, while this happened much earlier in all other countries, we see that at the time this need for action was at least urgent. With regard to § 209 of the STGB: We all know the discussions. Mr Scheibner, there was a vote that was released for all the clubs at the time, at least for the ÖVP and for us, but I also think for the other parties. This was, of course, a very pointed discussion, but in the end it led us to get away from this provision of § 209. There have already been judicial decisions by the European Court of Human Rights before, but also opinions from the Constitutional Court; also from the Oberlandesgericht Innsbruck, which supported us at the time. It was sometimes pathetic that we needed several judicial decisions to entrust ourselves to what should have been of course. Now we have taken a step further, and it is a very good step. We from Social Democracy have made a request in our time of opposition, which has been a little further. If we are talking today about why the office should not actually be the place where this registration takes place, I do not fully understand that either, because of course the office is that place, which normally carries out all the personal administrative activities and where the books are usually located. Mr Stadler is not here today, but in the Committee, although he has actually spoken against the law, he has not been able to understand why the Office, which is reasonably generally responsible, is not commissioned to do so in this case. There is more administrative burden with any other regulation, since one could have taken the close-up. I think a discussion is never over. Today we decide to make a regulation – hopefully. We will continue to discuss, and perhaps this will result in a reduction in the emotionality and also in a reasonable step of the relevant body. Now it is true that we bring about about 80 percent of the regulatory requirements and the regulatory content from marriage into this registered partnership and offer regulations that are very reasonable and obvious, ladies and gentlemen. We also introduce mutual assistance and maintenance obligations. That is a reasonable point, which is something that is natural in a marriage. I also believe that it must be a matter of course for every human relationship to consider assistance and maintenance obligations as normal. Therefore, there is much that is certainly a positive development from a humanist point of view. I have to say: On the one hand, I should like to thank the Ministry of Justice for the work that has been done, but I have also noted with strangers that it is probably the praise of this proposal, but it has actually slowed down in the background in many points where this is simply incomprehensible to me. In any case, I would like to make the following amendment – because some points are still to be added –: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e9564	The amendment tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e9628	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e9649	Ladies and gentlemen! From many parliamentary debates, you are aware that the Greens have always been committed to gender equality. It was Ulrike Lunacek, our Members, who took the first steps. She also listens to us today from the gallery – she has now changed to the European Parliament; there is still much to do on this issue – and has made important contributions to it. Nor do I hide that we are not entirely satisfied with today's law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is certainly a step in the right direction – and this must be recognized – that brings something to the person concerned. I only recall the provisions of foreign law: There is equality in social security law and in tax law. But it's just – and it's important to stress that – only half a step. Mrs Bundesminister, if you are always stressing that Austria is in the middle of Europe, that is only right if you are countries like Russia, Ser- or Turkey, where there are no legal regulations at all and some of those concerned are also harassed by the authorities. I would like us to meet the other countries, Scandinavia or the Catholic Spain. There, the same - sex marriage is a matter of course. I asked myself: In Spain neither the church towers have stopped nor the bells have stopped ringing – no, nothing has happened! There are same-sex marriages, which is a piece of normality in Catholic Spain. This must be possible in Catholic Austria. It is also striking that this law is repeatedly emphasized in the opinions where the differences to marriage should lie. I'm wondering, What is the right to refuse equality? It is not the responsibility of the State to assess which partnerships it wants or which partnerships it does not want. All the arguments presented here do not convince. To the argument children: So, honestly, how many heterosexual partnerships stay without a child? The benefits, the so-called benefits of marriage, are not agreed upon. How many children are born outside of marriage? Shouldn't they get these so-called advantages? How many people marry in old age can't have children at all? The so-called benefits of marriage are not agreed upon. Those who want to promote children should promote children; they should do so through social benefits. Partnership laws have a completely different function: They should form a legal framework for living together. Therefore, any distinction between gender and non-sex partnerships, with regard to marriage, is inaccurate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to stress this, because there is always such a theatre here: This law does not affect the rights or the way of life of more heterosexual couples. I don't feel disturbed when same-sex couples can marry. I don't understand how other heterosexual couples can see that. There is not the slightest change for heterosexual couples through this law. It is time to recognize realities. There are equal-sex partnerships, and they must be given adequate, appropriate and equal legal frameworks, ladies and gentlemen. This law still contains 45 distinctions; I can only take out a few. The first thing you need to discuss, although it is actually just a side-by-side, is the debate about the standing office, the place where the partnership is concluded. There was even talk of the ban on the ceremony. In its perspective paper, the ÖVP has even established the Standing Office as a place of conclusion of the same-sex partnership, but has now been removed – completely inaccurate. Obviously, it's a very different matter. It is about expressing that the same-sex partnership is obviously only a second-class partnership. It is intended to make the distinction to marriage visible, and we simply reject that. I also regret the words of the Conference of Bishops, which rejoiced at the fact that not the office of stand will be the place of conclusion of the partnership. The Bishops' Conference can comment as it pleases, so that there is no misunderstanding, but I do not think that the Bishops' Conference is well advised, when she makes the pulpit out of day-to-day politics. I will not interfere in issues of faith either, I will not recommend to the Catholic Church whether to hold their weddings before the main altar or in the sacristy. We don't discuss a sacrament here, we discuss a legal institution here in the 21st century. In the 20th century, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A second point that you have to address, because it is absurd and ridiculous, is the whole theatre about the right to name. If two people enter a gender-registered partnership, they cannot get the same name. Normally, it is particularly important for the ÖVP in marriage that the partners bear the same name. It should not be so in the case of the same sex partnerships. But that's not the only thing, it's getting even more absurd: If Müller and Maier, for example two men, enter into a partnership and keep their name, then the family name changes for the last name. And there it gets absurd, there it becomes ridiculous: The word ‘family’ should not appear in this context when it comes to the EIA. To strip the other distinctions: There is no family hospice, i.e. death accompaniment, with the parents-in-law. We should be happy when people make death accompaniment for dying people – there is no such thing as sexual couples. There is no possibility of adoption, although children already live in equal opportunities today. This debate is absolutely lying. Or: There is no medically supported reproduction in same-sex couples. All these distinctions are eliminated, and the motion for a resolution by Steinhauser, friends and friends on the equality of the registered partnership with marriage includes precisely the removal of these distinctions. Ladies and gentlemen, it could be said positively that it is the beginning of a development. Critically formulated, one must say that it is a law that is in need of reform from the first day. We will also express this in our voting behaviour. We'd have gone a different way. We would either have called for a marriage to be opened or, for social reasons, if it is not possible at present to create a legal institution, which means otherwise, if this is the main problem of the ÖVP, but brings the same rights. Today, two Green MEPs will vote in favour of the law, symbolically because it will improve that it is a small step, though only half a step. The rest of the Green Group will vote against this law in order to remember that there is still a further path to genuine equality ahead of us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e9771	The motion for a resolution tabled will be distributed to Members and will be negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10004	Next speaker: Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10025	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Yes, promised – held! [[Ironic cheerfulness with FPÖ, BZÖ and greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Broken!]] I have promised from the beginning that by the end of the year there will be a solution on the table dealing with the mutual recognition and legal protection of same-sex couples. It's a balanced solution. This is also noted by the reactions. The law on the registered partnership eliminates discrimination, protects marriage and thinks of the children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With this law, it was also necessary to amend 80 laws in so-called material laws. Maybe it'll be 81. You are welcome to join the 81. We have to agree to the law. In fact, it is a constitutional provision, the terms of reference law and refers to gender policies. What is the rules governing the registered partnerships? It regulates, on the one hand, the justification of the registered partnership, granting rights and obligations, such as assistance obligations, maintenance obligations. There are gender equality, but there are also equalitys between social security law, pension law, procedural nature, tax law – very, very many equalitys. The law also contains resolution provisions. There is still the common resolution, as in marriage, but also a disputed resolution. Mr Scheibner, we can also discuss the reform of the marriage law in itself, for which I am pleased to have done so. I'd say we're together once, and you're telling me your ideas on this topic. We would like to talk about this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is necessary anyway! They've been waiting for 200 years, Mrs. Federal Minister!]] Now where are the big differences in marriage? – There is a difference especially with the possibility of adoption. There is no possibility of adoption for a single couple – single adoptions are possible anyway – for the following reason: On the one hand, this solution would not be widely accepted, and in this area it is now necessary to achieve a broad acceptance in the population. Furthermore, we need to think of the welfare of children, and adoption now depends on parental-like conditions. [[Abg. Silhavy: You probably have to talk about the well-being of the children at every adoption!]] That's it. What's the big difference? – I am speaking now for my colleague, Federal Minister Maria Fekter, which is within her area of competence. – The registered partnership shall be registered with the District Administration Authority, which shall be the Staff Status Authority. That also has various reasons, and I think this solution is very good. That is why it is good because it is most practical to register with the district administration authority. It does not then have to register each small office in the country. Here too, the broad acceptance is most likely to be given to the district administration authority. And most importantly, ladies and gentlemen: The ceremony is not regulated by law, not even by heterosexual couples, nor by normal marriage. The ceremony can be everyone's own. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Again and again, one hears the criticism that heterosexual couples are not possible to register. – Quite honestly, ladies and gentlemen: Where's the advantage? I don't understand what would be better if you let yourself in. So I haven't found any reason yet why you shouldn't marry as a man and a woman, but let yourself be registered. But please, maybe someone else will tell me. In general, I really have to say, you have to think about it, either you marry or you don't marry. I'm not going to have any intermediate solutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have taken a big step today, a step which is certainly historical in Austria. Mr. Strache is not here now, but I would like to tell him that we are now living in the 21st century. century, and I am very glad that this step will be taken today. – Thank you many times for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10127	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10148	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It may be in the 23rd century. Then, century after century, we will no longer experience it, that what is decided by you today will be condemned as the greatest nonsense of all time. I do not rule out this because it can't be a principle that you only make laws according to the empirical, but there are other criteria that must be applied, and I think you have to go a little into the depths too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, basically, it does not matter, under which rhetorical declarations, under which bendings and disintegrations – and since I mean the ÖVP in particular – are being tried here today to present a difference which is no difference in the matter. I mean the difference between the partnership for homosexuals registered by you today against the votes of the FPÖ – and I am proud of that, we will vote against this law – on the one hand and the Institute of Marriage and the associated intention of the family on the other. You will not succeed in blurring this difference! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just as little as you will be able to hide from the population the actual social policy intention you are pursuing with this project. It is basically nothing but the family to take step by step away from the special position that we want to give to the liberals in society. You have already taken a lot of measures to this end. And what happens today is only another building block on this crusade against the family. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The law you present to us today is a mogel pack because you have packed all the explosive charges in the form of small inequalities with the Institute of Marriage. It is only a matter of time until a complaint machinery is set in motion, where at the end of these complaints, the total equality will come about, of course, including adoption. You are accused of knowing exactly what you are buying and today pretending that this would not happen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's like a tangery. It is very small at the beginning of the preparation, but the yeast is inside, and then the thing begins to wish, and you don't recognize the whole thing after some time. It's similar with this law. From the left, the SPÖ and the Greens, we're used to that. This is a social-political crash course that has long been in operation. 1968 lets greet – something else is not at all. A manipulation of the ideology of a Karl Marx with the supposed achievements of psychoanalysis – that's it! It's being implemented here today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that's a building block you put on it. I can remind you how all of this merges into a great structure. You already have a problem with the protection of life in itself! Otherwise, you would have the whole question of abortion It is not such a looser way of dealing, because you do nothing but talk to the population: If it's a decision of conscience and if you make it with yourself, then it's good! – This is a perverting of the concept of conscience, for conscience is not a license for personal arbitrariness, but has to do with knowledge and has a claim for public disclosure. This is not just a personal state of mind that expresses itself there. First point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Second point: They also have a big problem with the question of natural sex. This makes you worried that there are boys and girls, and that's why you get to this mumpitz that – following the 68s, you can read everything – you say that gender behavior is only affected, that's all socialized. And that's why you've been driving your state reeducation and reprogramming programmes for a long time and are setting another milestone with this law today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have a problem with the family. After all, the Horkheimers and Adornos, who are all their spiritual forefathers, have degenerated as “the germ cell of authoritarian minding” and as“ the germ cell of fascism”. And you continue this course, and that's why you do everything you can to get the children out of the family to paint them as early as possible according to your social policy ideas. Not with us, ladies and gentlemen! I say that very clearly to you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Coming to the end: What is put here today is nothing but another building block. I've been looking at it again. Mr Marcus You probably know, you've studied him diligently. He said that there must be “a refusal of witness sexuality. ” This is a precipitation today: a term of freedom, which consists of nothing but destruction and destruction.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10267	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10288	Mr President. Dear Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In July 2004, a new law on equal treatment applies in Austria, which also prohibits discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation in the working world. This implemented an EU directive which also led to a discussion on whether this new prohibition of discrimination, which can also be understood at the same time as the prohibition of equal treatment, meant equality of gender with marriage. Such a view is already contrary to recital 22 of this Directive, since, under this recital, national legislation on the family status is not affected. The Directive also does not affect independent benefits. This is also covered by the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice. He takes into account the ideas prevailing in the Community and draws from them two conclusions – I quote literally: On the one hand, "since 1989 more and more Member States have established legislation in addition to marriage, by which different forms of community of partners of the same sex have been legally recognized and these links have given certain effects to the The effects of marriage are equal or comparable between partners and third parties.’ On the other hand, “these regulations differ from the registration of couples who have not yet been recognised by law in addition to their great differences in the Member States concerned.” – Quotes. This development is demonstrated and accepted by the European Court of Justice. We have also decided on this path. We want a registered partnership, which provides a legal framework for the co-existence of same-sex couples. This legal framework covers both rights and obligations, eliminates discrimination, but does not mean equality with marriage. The partnership we are seeking is essentially different from the Civil Pact, as proposed by the Greens. There should not be a catalogue of duties for this civil pact as for marriage. The resolution of the Civil Pact should be brief and painless. After the dissolution, there should no longer be an obligation to maintain the standard of living of the partner or partner. Only if one of the two partners of life can no longer take care of their own survival, whether because of the management or the education of children, should the institution of marriage described as an antique be used. The marriage is thus reduced to a facility that serves only the purpose of securing the maintenance. It thus performs a kind of social assistance function at civil law level. If you decide on this for the civil pact, you pick the raisins out of the institution of marriage. For us, however, marriage is the foundation of the family. Therefore, we do not want to narrow the central meaning of marriage and are therefore also against a “marriage light”. However, we would like to give people in the same gender partnership the opportunity to take responsibility for each other. Accordingly, with the registered partnership, we create a legal institution that gives the relationship of same-sex couples a legally secured framework – with a very clear demarcation to civil marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10345	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10367	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear women Federal ministers! Appreciated public, who is following today's debate on the screens! The only ones who are still discussing this topic in a high emotion and with passion and passion are apparently the politicians themselves. Most of the Austrian population is in the much-quoted 21st century. ==References== Most of the population lives in the third millennium. Mr Kickl, on behalf of the Group of the European Your term: Not only married couples are family, even remarried or divorced are for me family. Also single mothers and fathers are for me family, colleague Strache. Patchwork families are also families for me. The social-political definition, my reform-democratic social-political definition builds on the fact that we have partnerships in Austria, loving and respectful partnerships, with mourning, since early youth days, until death divorces them, divorces and remarrieds, or whatever, with new partnerships. And, of course, these partnerships, loving partnerships that find themselves, do not deserve privilege, but respect. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The only thing we can do as politicians is not to invent anything new, but to take care of respect and to avoid taking action in the private life of people. [[Abg. Where is Mr Stadler today? It is completely missing in this debate! He's silent!]] There is no one else who listens to us out there today, what we are discussing and how we are disappearing, Mr Kickl! We are not the sacred Inquisition either. The sacred Inquisition has after all needed from the year 1600 to 1992 to realize that the earth is not a disc, but a sphere, and that the sun is not orbiting around the earth, but the earth in the planetary association around the sun, colleague Kickl! 300 years – please, let's take the emotions back! [[Abg. Stache: The colleague Stadler is silent! He's silent!]] [[Abg. Strache: Mr. Stadler is generating himself today!]] I will vote in favour of this partnership law, and I am grateful for the constitutional possibility of the free mandate; not because it would be so good – Mr Scheibner has rightly shown the inadequacy and the gaps of this law – but because it is a first step towards normality for me, a first step towards the real forms of life in our country. [[Abg. Strache: The manly Stadler is missing today, he has left the courage!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Colleague, the adaptation of the law!]] And there we should not close ourselves, but in politics we should make every effort to create framework conditions and provide legal foundations. [[Abg. Kickl: Right-wing positiveism!]] It is not an occasion legislation, certainly not in this case, which has been discussed in this House for decades, but after three or four decades we should finally have justice here too. It is also not a privilege, very honoured one. Ladies and gentlemen, a privilege is a material advantage without return! Tax and tax law and social security law in Austria do not distinguish between homosexual and heterosexual people. They also do not distinguish between thicknesses and thins, nor between the productive and the incompetent. They distinguish between taxpayers and those who do not pay taxes – and they also bear this state. This State will then also have to grant social contributions depending on the occasion and need. – This is my concept of solidarity. So go back down into your Chamber, make whatever you want, but don't have the discussion with arguments that are not years, but centuries old! [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, you too!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We have to take a first step in this area – the law does so, even if it is flawed. We need to take an important step. [[Abg. Bucher: This is liberal politics!]] Policy has other tasks to take care of from today: the budget debacle of this government, the crime that exists in our country, and soon the highest unemployment in the history of the Second Republic. This House has other tasks, this House is now closing for the first time a chapter of justice, and I am proud that I can agree with it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10531	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10553	Mr President. Estimated Federal Ministers! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the house and in front of the screens! “Similar right to equal love” was a slogan of the social-democratic homosexual initiative with which one has fought against discrimination and injustice. Many thanks to all those initiators – above all Günter Tolar – who have worked for it. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Günter Tolar is here, Raoul Fortner, Dominik Mungast – they have always fought for the disappearance of discrimination statistics, for example from the Criminal Code. We were sentenced to this. Not only in Austria, the Constitutional Court, at the initiative of the OLG in Innsbruck, drew attention to this – which has already been mentioned today – but also the European Court of Human Rights has already pronounced some convictions until we react in Austria. It was not least – and I would like to mention this too – Dr Helmut Graupner of the Lambda initiative, which has also repeatedly pointed out the different levels of discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen! In 1971, the total ban on homosexuality in Austria was abolished by Christian Broda. In 2002, § 209 StGB – this section for which we were often condemned – was abolished and replaced by § 207b in the Criminal Code. The next point here in Austria, which is based on the life realities of the people, is that we decide on the registered life partnership. This is long-standing, that is important, and I am glad that this draft, drawn up in close proximity to the Berger draft, is available, which we will also decide today at human discretion. [[Abg. Kickl: Think of this principle to the end when you are able to do so!]] It is about the same right for equal love, it is about a first step to get there that all those people, all those couples who live in equal sex partnerships, also have the opportunity to legitimise their relationship – unfortunately only in front of a district headquarters team, not in front of the office. [[Abg. May. Stefan: It's not illegal, is it? Is she illegal so far?]] I am glad that the city of Salzburg has already expressed its support for this ceremony in the marble hall of Mirabell Castle. [[Abg. Rädler: With the head of state!]] – The Deputy Mayor Preuner of the ÖVP has also expressed strong support for this. Ladies and gentlemen! With this law, something is decided today that is an important, a first step. Mr Grosz has already mentioned that the population has been so far away for a long time and says: If two people like to have themselves – no matter which sex – then they should also have the opportunity to confess and legitimise their relationship in the public. This is an important matter of law. It is a first step that we are taking today, a first courageous step that needs to be followed so that we can further improve this legal institution. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What is the second?]] I'm glad about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10653	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10675	Mr President. Ladies Federal Ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today is the International Day of Human Rights. It is remarkable that no speaker/no speaker has yet referred to it. [[Abg. Steibl:... Agenda item Children's rights!]] Human rights are the guide we should orient ourselves to when we adopt laws like these. Unfortunately, we do not. Whoever decides who wants to take responsibility for – that was the only correct sentence in the FPÖ’s statements – does not concern politics or the state. [[Abg. Kickl: Of a party carrying the thought, we must not let that be said!]] It's none of her business. Our only commitment here and today is to provide people with the opportunity to live and live without discrimination in the sense of human rights. This is our task, but this is unfortunately not the case with this law today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The law is progress, that is not a question. It brings certain reliefs, especially in the field of social law, but it is still a ‘involved discrimination’; it must be called by that name. It still makes a difference, and the biggest difference is a term, namely, the term “family. ” Everything that looks like family smells like family, the ÖVP obviously does not want to have in connection with homosexual partnerships. I don't understand. You cannot prevent these families – and there is – from doing so, you can only prevent them in their reality of life. However, it is your duty to help and support them, because they also assume responsibility – by the way, also for children. There are them, the rainbow families, of course there are them. And the absurdity and the perfide of this law is that you take out the stepchild adoption, that you take out exactly this point that would be most important for the child's well-being. Imagine the following situation: You live together with a partner or a partner, you bring with you from a heterosexual community – or perhaps even from a marriage – one child or two children – such a thing should also exist; Mr Grillitsch, you look completely desperate, but there is – and then the very, very sad tragic case occurs that one of the two partners dies. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] A child is torn out of a family association in which it has lived for years, in which it has come to know and love a father, a second father or a mother and a mother other than its parents. – You, who always talk about the child’s welfare, say that it’s all right that this mother/this father is then like a stranger to the child. I don't think that's all right. This is a real discrimination, and I don't understand why you have to keep it in a law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The question of Standesamt must also be explained again. That's more than a symbol. It is obviously meant as a gesture of humiliation toward these people who want to say yes to each other in a festive setting. I do not understand what argument can be put on the other hand to deny them this gesture. I can only say that it is meant as a humiliation that it should actually be a relationship of second or third class and definitely no equality that we are obliged to give to these people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The point that I regret – at the end: Marriage is in need of reform, no question at all, of course one must reform it, but you have just taken provisions from marriage law into this registered partnership, which, against the background that we all know well, namely from HIV and AIDS, are particularly sad and particularly sad, very painful, namely: the resolution of marriage – and thus the registered partnership – when someone is incurablely ill. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] This is precisely against this background, which we all know very, very well, a really wrong step. Think about taking a step towards real human rights today – on the Day of Human Rights! I wish all the good that this institution might use – or not – for everyone who loves the same sex. I hope that this will also be supported by the policy of setting the legal framework – at least verbally expressed by us today, and they will inevitably receive it in the future. Full equality will come!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10774	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10796	Mr President. Mrs Bandion-Ortner! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! I really like to take the floor today for gay and lesbian couples who live together, who want to live happily together and give their cohabitation a legal framework. I am glad that this step has been taken here in Austria, in the middle of Europe, which – as some have said today – should not yet be the last, but at least the first in the right direction. [[Abg. Strache: What's going on?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What are you doing?]] I regret that there are voices here in this House, that are highly intolerant, and that in times like this, Mr President, in other countries the death penalty is still on it – such an issue from an African state – when people confess to homosexuality, hetze also operates. [[Abg. Weinzinger: This is not intolerance! That's the firm conviction that you're doing something wrong!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Here you should reconsider your development aid!]] I'm ashamed of that, let yourself be said! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: That's why you have to marry?]] Fortunately, in Austria, there are many organizations – like amnesty internationally – that do for people who are still persecuted, tortured, and also killed worldwide because they have a different sexual orientation from heterosexual people – who are really committed to consulting that outing is easier. You have to imagine how difficult the situation is sometimes when, in the company where you work, the environment gets to know that someone is gay or lesbian, if there is still intolerance. We here in this House should be the first to pretend that tolerance has to do with democracy and that the measure of democracy must be taken in the tolerant way of dealing with each other. I miss that with some parties today, and I really regret it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You have no idea what you're talking about!]] I should like to draw attention to something: I have read for a long time on the homepage of “Homosexuality and Faith”, Mr. Col., an association that has been dealing with homosexuality and faith for 20 years and is very tolerant of it – all Christians – how homosexuality can be lived and who does not welcome this law. He even criticizes it to comply with the truth, because it is too far too far from him; as in some respects I am, but still I am glad that we are taking this step today. We have to ask ourselves the question of what happens to those who are watching now sitting in front of the televisions, who may be sitting there on the top of the gallery, who are gay or lesbian and who have heard these debates today, which were partly under any criticism, because they preach intolerance and in truth nothing in the 21st century. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Kickl: You're not allowed to judge that!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Unemployment – or what is 21. - Century?]] It is about gays, lesbians, but also transgender people, and this group of people – we have made up – we will also be dealing separately with the Minister of Justice with which Mrs. Minister of Justice is dealing, because it has a lot changed in the Staff Regulations, so that these people also have the opportunity to choose at least their first name freely. I am glad that there are companies in this country that award prizes for the fact that diversity, this diversity, which makes a company economic and business more important by also achieving greater profits, is also tolerated and lived. I am glad that prizes are also awarded especially for companies that bring people with a different sexual orientation in front of the curtain and do not discriminate against them, but view them as totally normal. I am glad that this registered partnership has succeeded. I have here – from a ten-year-old ceremony – a comment from a colleague who said the following: It was a big shock for me in 1999 – ten years ago – when my friend Günther was dying and I was even stranger to him before the law. I couldn't do anything. I did not get any information in the hospital about his condition, I had no care exemption at that time, in the law of inheritance was absolutely nothing clarified for me. I had to pay top inheritance tax, and his sister had to handle everything. - Quote. Fortunately, this is now regulated, fortunately, precisely these questions of maintenance, inheritance rights, social security law and other legal areas have been resolved. If a partnership is entered, the rights and obligations for people with homosexual orientation should be equal to those of the heterosexuals. I regret that it is not yet – not yet! – it has succeeded that rainbow families can also adopt children, because family is really more than just mother, father, child and marriage that is closed. [[Abg. Strache: The first step has already been implemented, and the second step follows with the ÖVP!]] Family today is so diverse that we have to deal with it, Mr. Strache, because we simply have to find the right answers to how people live together today. If half of all marriages are divorced, we must ask ourselves: Why is that so? It has to be decided personally how and with whom he/she lives and how long, but it must also be right and cheap that homosexual couples can have their partnership entered, and I would rather be at the office, that is not a question. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say to you: I am really very proud that a long-friended, gay couple asked me if I and my husband wanted to be a witness when they entered their partnership – soon when the law is in force. I would be pleased if there would be more tolerance in this respect for all parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10974	With regard to the Rules of Procedure adopted at the outset and the time of television, I would ask you to understand that the next five speeches should not exceed 2 minutes. Please, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e10998	2 minutes are an original version of the topic. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] This is also in line with the social tolerance principles of the ORF, which otherwise always transmits until 1 p.m. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's speech just presented goes to the limit of tolerance to be maintained. Evidence for a tolerant president was that he did not deny her the opportunity to speak because she did not speak in any form of execution. It has omitted a mixture of old-68s and other red-left terminology and it has become known to call the free speech of Members a negative intolerance. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But this is very “original”!]] - Where was intolerance to be heard here? There are different opinions on different laws, and this freedom of speech cannot be cut off here, Mrs Federal Minister! [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] If you reflect on rights and obligations and children's rights as read recently in the newspaper, because when the European Court of Human Rights in connection with fathers who have been deprived of father's rights spoke a judgment, the fathers only took advantage of the cake, then you are a representative of exactly the negative political class that abuses the children as a weapon and supports it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the political content. And the comrades of the ÖVP who lie on the procrust bed today, because they think that by consenting to this law to have rest from this matter, I wish a good future, because it will not be over. You heard the announcements today [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: How many months were you at home for childcare?]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] It was a first step, but the first step will not be the end! You, Mrs. Colleague, leave me alone! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How many months have you cared for your children?]] You can say what you want, but we will not agree to this nonsense. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Ready time!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] This law creates a privilege for certain partnerships, and the others whom Mr Grosz rightly referred to as a family are given privileges. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] [[Call the SPÖ:Ready time!]] [[Abg. Dr Glavischnig-Piesczek: Turn off, Mr President! You can also turn the microphone off!]] That's the effect.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11150	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11173	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Federal Ministers! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's law on registered partnership already has a long history. Now, I believe, we have found a good and reasonable solution – indeed also for those who have been skeptical about this matter, and I count on that too. I think it was just necessary to have a longer learning process, which has led to a more sober and realistic view of this matter and perhaps a certain bias. But on the basic attitude that a gender relationship can never be equated with a heterosexual relationship, that doesn't change anything at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But you do it!]] We regulate by this law what it is useful to regulate, namely, that there is an adequate legal status for couples of equal sex, that rights and obligations are properly retained – of course, Mr Scheibner – and that there is also a corresponding social security scheme. [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you read the law?- Oh, my God!]] Even in many other essential areas, there are things that are the same as in a heterosexual marriage, but not in all points. I believe that it is also necessary to say that it is absolutely incomprehensible that the Greens and many others, although we have brought together so much of the rules, are still upsetting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I absolutely do not understand that Mr Lunacek is talking about discrimination in Brussels, and Mr Musiol in the Committee is talking about the fact that others, not like-minded, have a narrow horizon. I would also like to say that tolerance and respect must also be required of all others. It cannot be that respect and tolerance are always only required by one side and one is not prepared to bring it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Talk time!]] I don't think you should be overthrew each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11252	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11274	Mr President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the crowds! Freedom of the human being is a very important concern, and we are also committed to the fact that powerful citizens can freely and unimpededly decide what they want to do, how to do their love, how to create their sexuality. We are not allowed here to decide and talk about it. These people should also have the right to clarify their successions at all times, to write down on a legal basis how they want to regulate these things. But it will be difficult for me if a human group enters the so-called generation contract – one-sided. It comes on the side of the referees, takes advantage of the services at any time, and today it is already clear that this group does not include any benefits in this generation contract. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] We know today that these provisions will burden the civil servant pension system with up to €80 million, which will cost us enormously in the event of care exemptions, in tax law and in service law; whereas, in the other hand, there is no money for mothers' pensions – for women who raise children who bring children to the world – and for the increase of the care allowance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I therefore believe that we should consider the fact that this area deserves very much the freedom that they want, but not at the expense of taxpayers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I believe that we should let fairness operate on issues of gender. But we should make more money available to those people who maintain the generation agreement, those women who bring children into the world, whether married or single, and thus help families.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11328	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11350	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is a first important step in the right direction. Even if, of course, we as social democracy would have wanted further provisions, it is right to agree to the law today. What would happen, wouldn't we decide? – There would continue to be no regulations in this area for years. Interested parties would continue to suffer from inequality. That is why, I believe, in the interests of those concerned, it is today to adopt this important law and in many areas to achieve close, in some cases even full equality. A very important area is living. Same-sex couples have so far been extremely disadvantaged in the anti-terrorist field. There are numerous examples of long-term equal partners, who together have made an apartment, lovingly built it and had their food point there together. In the case of separation, it is particularly tragic if the person who wants to leave is not the main tenant, for he has not had any claim until now. [[Call the FPÖ:Falsch!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: There's been a long time! Of course!]] More profoundly, however, is the problem when the main tenant dies and the surviving partner has no legal claim. [[Abg. Strache: There is already today!]] In this sad situation, if you lose your partner – you have no idea – even in existence and homelessness and depend on the owner’s culture, it’s terrible. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Strache: In the rental law there is already today! You have no idea!]] Now there is a legal claim for those concerned, and that is a significant improvement. [[Abg. May. Stefan: This has been a law for years!]] – Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11454	Next, Mrs Mag. Musiol speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11475	Ladies and gentlemen! We have a law here with 45 discriminations, humiliations and missing answers to life realities – 45 discriminations, humiliations and missing answers too much! If today's call for an objective discussion has already been made here, I must say: An objective discussion will take place when material, logical arguments are put forward. But all the arguments you brought from the right and here on the right today were not justified. If you are talking about marriage – I quote – serving the witness and education of children – you have done this here today, Mr. Donnerbauer, then I must address you very specifically to those couples who do not carry out the witnessing and education of children. These are couples who can't have children, these are couples who don't want to have children. They are talking here about the ÖVP being the family party. We know that you are the family party for very certain families, but you don't think about the lesbian families, you don't think about the gay families, and these families are very probably families too. There are many children who come from previous families and from previous partnerships, there are couples who are very likely to take nursing children and then still have a partnership. All these families you discriminate against. And if you are upset about the expression I used in the committee, Mr. Glaser, I mean that you only want to see a certain section of life's realities, Father, Mother, Child, in a sincere relationship. [[Abg. Wöginger: An arrogant behavior is that!]] [[Abg. Prince: You should look in the mirror!]] They forget the single parents, where neither father nor mother raise the children. They forget the lesbians and gays, where not both are biological but very probably both social parents. They also forget in other contexts families who need our social support. And you also forget families with migration backgrounds. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You are not the family party in Austria, you only protect certain families here!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11537	Next speaker: Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11558	Mr President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! If one listens to this debate today, one must realize with horror that, as far as the values of family and marriage are concerned, no stone should remain on the other. It is about the marriage being undermined and ad absurdum. Faith You really are saying that it will be held before the European Court of Human Rights if we are to exclude marriage, adoption from the outset? – Of course not, because once discrimination is established, it will be rejected immediately and will no longer be valid. What does a marriage mean? – A marriage is the promise to have children, to raise and to raise children in a stable relationship... [[Abg. May. Hakl: At the age of 60 this is no longer possible today!]] – Of course, even today this is the value of family and marriage. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want, ladies and gentlemen, that when we talk about adoption, children can grow up in a genuine marriage in a family where there is father, mother and children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are studies that show that father and mother are important to children. It's about the common care. A child has a right to father and mother. And what's that supposed to look like? Who's playing the father, who's the mother? Should there be distributed roles then? Should be asked as in the theatre: Who's the father, who's the mother? – Ladies and gentlemen, that’s not how it can be! It is very subtly being used here to destroy marriage, to destroy what is traditional in us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier.]] However, the State cannot have any interest at all in allowing for a evasion! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In this case, if today is already the day of human rights, let your heart and your mind speak and advocate for the family and the marriage. Do not allow an ad-absurdum leading of marriage and family through left-wing judges and center-left judges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier.]] For our state and also for our people, the survival of marriage, a marriage in which children can be begotten, is necessary. This marriage is in the interest of our people to uphold our state. [[New call of the abg. Binder-Maier.]] Ladies and gentlemen, give yourself a back and vote in favour of marriage and family in our sense – and not for this unnecessary bill, whose implementation costs only a lot of money and the maximum of a PhD of the population if international studies can be believed!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11632	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11653	Mr President. Dear Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The registered partnership has nothing to do with a marriage, as Mrs Colleague has just said. It is a completely detached legal institution, there are no cross-references to marriage law, it is a law of its own. I think you have to look at what marriage is today. – Of course, people can marry at 60 years of age, 70 years of age. And I don't think then the marriage is designed to bear witness to children, although the privileges of marriage were very likely to facilitate the common education of children. In the end, I believe that when people decide to assume mutual responsibility, rights and obligations, it is a profoundly bourgeois and a deep Christian value. We will recognise this by lifting the registered partnership on a legal, legal basis today. It is clear, however, that this is not a family concept. Because whether we're talking about whether a relationship is designed to have children: The purely biological fact that even in the future only men and women can witness physical children together, we will also be able and willing to change with this law. The insolubleness of Catholic marriage in turn, Mr. Strache, is a completely different institution – in Austria we have the separation of church and state. And just as in the past a single Catholic marriage could only be concluded once in life, this Catholic marriage remains open in the future, of course, only different sexual couples. I believe, however, that by separating Church and State, it is legitimate to grant mutual rights and obligations and reliability to people who are willing to respond for each other. [[Abg. Strache: Right, but there is no need for marriage! Right, that's what we're agreed on!]] As far as the children are concerned, it is also clear that children always have a physical father and a physical mother, each of them different sexes, and it closes to me, why do children, where a partner – I say between parentheses: later – comes up with it, but more like sexes, should be treated differently than children of different sexes. That would be illogical. Let us look at the adoptions – often assembled today –: In Austria, we have much less children to adopt than willing parents. If a partner is over 35 years old, the couple today do not have an adopted child in Austria. It is clear that even with this non-legislative de facto age limit, the best is being sought for the children. And the best thing is where the children feel about living within a standard. In individual cases, 50-year-old adoptive parents are certainly very good for a child, but we also draw close borders – and we do so in the registered partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11693	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11714	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will vote in favour of these legislative initiatives, but I would just like to say that I have little fun, little joy. If I do it anyway, then because I want to show it and because we also want to show together that it is good if something moves in the right direction now. Now once the foot is in the door, but, my God, it's really a madness how long it takes to be implemented in Austria completely natural rights. That's really sad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] How long did we have to dream that there's anything going on at all?- Oh, my God! How long did civil society, civil society initiatives have to put pressure on them to do what would actually be normal?- Oh, my God! This is why, last but not least, this law is now being passed because there is a threatening condemnation by the European Court of Human Rights. Undoubtedly, this law brings some improvements – we have already heard – in the field of social law, also in the context of binational partnerships, but at the same time it continues discrimination outright. Because one thing has to be clear: An improvement in a few points at the same time continues the injustices in others and consolidates them. We are therefore not satisfied with this law and do not at all believe that this issue is now out of the table. That's just the beginning. That is why I would like to make a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We will continue to promote equality and respect and implementation of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11791	The amendment is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11855	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11876	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The fact that I am attending with great, yes great dissatisfaction with this debate and with this legislative act is likely to have come to you. [[Abg. Oillingers: You don't have to attend!]] I am deeply sorry that we need to talk about such an incredibly “important problem” in social policy, with the words “important problem” to be quoted. We're talking about marginal groups, 1 promille, maybe 2 promille. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Count at home once!]] We're talking about inclinations, people who have sexual tendencies and that's why we're contracting. And we are talking about a rule of law which in any case gives all possibilities that this co-existence will also be legally regulated in any form as far as the inheritance is concerned as regards housing, in terms of partnership and the like. We are talking about the task of a principle which our society at all receives, namely, the gradual task of the principle of normal marriage between man and woman. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I could, of course, put this into a joke. At least I'm making a single attempt, because I'm not ridiculous. If someone has sexual tendencies that are incomprehensible to me, but he should have them because of me, then he wants to enter into a partnership with the other person who has a similar sexual tendency. What if a person has a tendency to build a model plane, can he also enter into a corresponding partnership with another one who also has a tendency to build a model plane in the next municipal office? What the fuck is this?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, there is another point, namely: How does that official, that servant of a church or a magistrate come to be deeply opposed to these things, so that he still has to marry them so that he has to put them together? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What about a homosexual stand official?]] This could, if he refuses, come into the most severe disciplinary confusion. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, have you ever thought about that? Again: I know I can't convince you because you're hostageed by different public opinions. The mass of the population, the vast majority of the population, I would say, at least 90 percent, deeply rejects this regulation, with the deepest heart and deep conviction. I don't understand why you're doing it anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e11980	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e12001	Mr President. Dear ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! This has already been done by the free-of-charge speakers. We liberals strongly reject this draft law on the so-called registered partnerships, because, as the speakers of the Greens have already pointed out, he is only the preliminary step towards a later introduction of homosexuals. [[Abg. Oils: Carriers!]] And there were also the statements made by Mr Zinggl, but not only his, rather treacherous and clear. For us, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the normal marriage, i.e. the marriage between man and woman, and the promotion of our traditional families are the superlative property over the favor of some hedonistic communities. The task of the state and the legislator must be to support child-rich families, who often live at the poverty line in our society, who are vulnerable to poverty, for only their own children secure the future of this country and its population, while equal-sex partnerships do not contribute at all. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We strongly reject the adoption of children by homosexual communities as well as the mass of the Austrian population, although this is often called for by individual representatives of the homosexual movement. The reactions of the homosexuals were clear and unmistakable after the announcement of the plans of this Federal Government. It was said very quickly that the registered partnerships were only a first step that would have to follow in Bälde. It was an effortful compromise to follow. The goal – and we have heard this again today – is the complete equality of the gay marriage with the traditional marriage, i.e. also civil weddings and even marriage in the churches. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the so-called salami tactics, with the influential groups of homosexuals for years, even decades trying to impose their ideology, their false ideology of our society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals, ladies and gentlemen, don't play with them! We know that the Austrian population shares this attitude with us. We know that the largest religious community in this country, the Catholic Church, is also against the so-called registered partnerships. Our Bundesobmann Heinz-Christian Strache has read to me what Bishop Dr. Kapellari has sent to me, namely the decisions of the Bishops' Conference. I can therefore save myself from presenting it. But, of course, with regard to the Austrian People's Party, which always pretends to be the Christian-Social Force in this country, I ask myself the question: What Christian-social values represent You're still there? They've become all-in-all. What was still going on under a bowl has obviously gone overboard in the new Pröll-ÖVP today. What Christian Values Feel You still commit yourself? The answer will have to be given here when the vote is taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e12069	The motion for a resolution tabled earlier by Mr Fichtenbauer is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e12129	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are entering the voting process. Vote on the request of MEPs Scheibner, ladies and gentlemen, the draft federal law establishing a federal law on the registered partnership and amending the General Civil Code, the Marriage Law, the Reproduction Medicine Act and other laws, in 558 of the Supplements to the Justice Committee. If you agree to this referral request, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Steinhauser, colleagues, the report and request of the Legal Affairs Committee on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act on the Limitation of Public Officials in 560 of the Supplements to the Justice Committee. Whoever joins this referral request, I ask him for a sign. – He finds no majority, is therefore rejected. As foreseen in the agenda, we shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law establishing a federal law on the registered partnership and amending the General Civil Code, the Marriage Law, the Reproduction Medicine Act and other laws into 558 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues and a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Zinggl, colleagues. The Members of Parliament also have power. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, calls for a separate vote on numerous articles of the draft law. There is also a request for a roll-call vote at the third reading. I will therefore begin by referring to the parts affected by the amendments mentioned or the request for separate vote — the series to vote on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. Mr Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled a motion for an amendment which was adopted in the form of a motion for a resolution. 1 § 2 refers. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 § 3, § 4 para. 1, § 6 para. 2, § 7, Section 8 para. 2, 3 and 4, § 9 para. 4, § 15 para. 1 and 3 as well as § 19 para. 2 Z 4 as amended by the Committee's report. If you join him, I'll ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment which is in the form of an amendment. 1 § 43 refers. If you vote in favour of this motion, I would ask you to vote. – This is accepted by a majority. I am therefore going to vote separately on this. 4, Art. 5 Z 1 § 27b and § 27d, Art. 22 Z 21, Art. 23 C 17 and Art. 24 Z 34 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent to these parts, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment which is in the form of an amendment. 47 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I come to the separate vote on a point of order. 53, Art. 54, Art. 56 Z 1, 3, 7, 10, 11 and 12, Art. 58 Z 1 as regards § 2 para. 4 C 12 and Art. 59 Z 1 as amended by the Committee's report. If you speak for it, I'll ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those Members who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That is why we are doing so. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members as well as the name 'Yes', which are the grey ballots, or 'No', which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I am looking for those Members who, in third reading, are being amended for the draft of a federal law establishing a federal law on the registered partnership and who vote in favour of the General Civil Code, the Marriage Law, the Reproduction Medicine Act and other laws, who vote in favour of putting “No” votes in the mood. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name. Mrs Lohfeyer will replace him later. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e12304	Thank you for calling the name. The vote will end. The House's colleagues, who are responsible for this, will now vote under the supervision of the authors. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e12346	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 174; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 110; ‘No’ votes: 64. [[Complementary by members of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The draft federal law, by which a federal law on the registered partnership is passed and the General Civil Code, the Marriage Law, the Reproduction Medicine Act and other laws are amended, is therefore adopted at third reading. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Brunner Christiane; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grosz Gerald; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, List, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, schitzenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Sonnberger, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Weninger Hannes, Westenthaler, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Wurm; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grauburd, Graf, Grünewald; Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jarmer, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Kunasek, Kurzmann; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber; Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Weinzinger Lutz, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e12546	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues on equality of registered partnership with marriage. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer, colleagues and colleagues on freedom of conscience for officials – no consequences in refusing to act as civil servants in accordance with the EPG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the draft federal law amending the Civil Engineering Chamber Act, including the title and receipt in 559 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act on the Limitation of Contracts of Official Servants, together with the title and receipt in 560 of the Supplements. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give a positive signal. – The present draft law has not been adopted with the required two-thirds majority. Thus, there is no law of the National Council within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 561 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 562 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[13:11:37]] 6. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (486, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Extraordinary Procedural Law, the Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Court Fees and the Law on Justice Service Agency (Child Assistance Act) (563 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motion 281/A(E) for a resolution by Dr Peter Fichtenbauer, colleagues and colleagues on separation victims – compulsory joint care (564 d.b.) 8. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the proposal 446/A(E) by Dr Peter Fichtenbauer, colleagues on separation victims – common care of both parents (565 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e12689	We now come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Fichtenbauer spoke. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e12717	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is not to be disputed that the intention of law must be connoted positively, but in other words: Well meant is often the opposite of good luck. Then: From the entire regulatory work to be associated with the subject of child welfare, only one “hair strand” is not yet “pangs”. It may already be that in disputes between parents, the installation of an independent outsider – especially in the context of care, personal contact with the child and so on – can contribute to something good. But to want to link this as a panacea with a non-family person is, in my opinion, not to be regarded as a positive solution instrument from the approach and, in most cases, not as a positive one, because the parents are still the reference persons number one – and they also have to stay. Second lack of the Child Assistance Act: 400 € in fees per party, i.e. probably per parent, i. 800 € in total and in old currency more than 11 000 S, which is very strong. In preliminary discussions, we discussed this particularly burdensome cost issue in a cross-group manner, and it was planned to remedy this problem in the context of the second reading. In any case, this is already in a very lamentable context with the general tendency which has now been apparent in the judicial administration since the last budget accompanying law, namely to increase court fees so extremely, so that it leads to non-controllable costs – and in connection with child welfare, this cannot be described as reasonable from the legal point of view. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also of no use to say that the party that cannot afford to do so receives procedural assistance, because then the state, as it were, gives out something from the left pocket, which it collects in the right hand. That is what the economy of the state administration is about to call not exactly meaningful. This is therefore not acceptable to legal policy and is neither politically nor economically meaningful. In the overall context, however, it should also be pointed out that one is talking like against walls – and that in a matter that everyone in the individual conversation is taken for granted and correctly accepted that one cannot view it in isolation. In this context, I refer to the legal situation in the Federal Republic of Germany, where there are not only the dummies. In Germany, there has been the legal regulation of common parental care since 1998, and only if a bad father or a bad mother acts against child welfare in individual cases can this parent be deprived of the care. That is reasonable, because most of the disputes – everyone knows that, no one can dispute this because this reality is very obvious – between the parents, that is, post-divorcing disputes, are just disputes that are carried out on the back of the children. And no one can want that! Everyone knows that this solution à la Germany would be a reasonable approach, but with us one dances around the hot bridle instead of finally addressing it in this way. Therefore, I make it clear that we will not accept this approach – certainly well meant – of the Child Assistance Act for so long as there is no reasonable negotiation of an overall package. If we are given the constitutional approach, I can only say: The constitutional approach is precisely the occasion to create an overall set of reasonable and solution-oriented content in order to bring it all under one hat. It is evident from the fact that the solution to a problem that is generally recognizable is not achieved by individual measures, which in themselves contain inaccuracies, but only by a reasonable overall solution. For such an overall solution, I seek to take a look beyond today's debate into the future and to participate in a reasonable overall solution, an overall solution that actually serves the child's well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e12807	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e12828	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Fichtenbauer, I believe that the legal anchoring of the child support is a reasonable product, according to this model, which initially ran in four locations and was then expanded and where it was said: The child is a voice to give a speech tube in very difficult procedures of care, or in the case of visitation disputes, in the case of separation and divorce of the parents. All this has been done well, as I mean, even if you, Dr. Fichtenbauer, are criticising the costs, and you are contradicting it, because otherwise it is always said by your side at transfers: Well, those who deserve better should make their contribution! If the parents divorce, then for the benefit of the child – if the parents cannot agree and cannot act for the benefit of their child – there should be a child assistance, a person who is equipped with the appropriate professional and human requirements and who represents the interests of the child. And this is a good way, especially in times like these, where there are unfortunately more separations and divorces from parents and where children have to have these important support. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think I deserved an applause for quick reading.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e12918	Mrs Colleague, you have to read part (c) too; I am sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e12933	I regret, Mr President, that you have followed this too closely, I wanted to stay in my time. Part (c) of the application shall be as follows: ‘(c) is referred to in point (c) of the first subparagraph. 7 after the turn “BGBl. I No. 108/1997,’ the turning ‘3rd Section (§s 10 to 14) of the Labour Force Leave Act, BGBl. No. 196/1988,’ inserted.’
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e12977	Thank you. – The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13046	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13067	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A lot has already been talked about in the pre-debate today. the policy must and must give an answer to the realities of life. I believe that a reality of life is that marriage mates separate, that children – and this is inconceivable – suffer separately, but that we should keep suffering as low as possible, especially when parents are unable to carry out their emotions with each other, and that the children should also put the children under emotional pressure and carry out power struggles on their backs. On the other hand, it is also a reality of life that there are very many parents – and that is very often the fathers – who not only want to pay for their child but also want to be there and experience how the child develops, how the child develops, who also want to have a certain say. This is a reality of life, and here there really must be answers. We have started to set the right course in the black and blue-orange government in 2001. I only think that under Federal Minister Böhmdorfer the joint care was first introduced on a voluntary basis. I believe that it is now necessary, after a few years, to consider and consider whether one should not improve and revise anything here, that in general also those fathers – and they are fathers in particular, but in individual cases also mothers – who have not been married are included in the obsor-rightly, for these are at present, one could say, rightlessly. I therefore believe that it is also important to maintain once again the following in the revision of this right of care: Whoever pays must also have a say and must also be able to exercise responsibility. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because, you know this famous sentence, I tell him again and again: Children have a right to both parents, both to the mother and to the father! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] We have taken another step in this government: In 2004 we supported and supported the visit guide and created in the form of visit cafés centres and offices to ensure that parents could meet their children, even if the other parent did not want to. These cafés have actually proved to be very positive, they are very well accepted. At that time a few, ten or twelve such visit cafés were started in Austria, now it is already around 150. Here too you should continue, but here I am missing and we lack the legal basis. It is still a matter of promoting, it is still a matter at the discretion of the Minister that one can visit these visit cafés. Here we will not let the BZÖ loose. This good idea, which we are perseveringly pursuing, we will again make a request for the legal framework to be established as soon as possible. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] We were stubborn and we recognized the problem correctly in 2006 also under Minister of Justice Gastinger and also under my time as Minister of the Family, that if a dispute dispute is escalated, especially the children have at least one voice and are least looked at the children. That is why, as a pilot project, we introduced this children's assistance, which has proved to be very good, very fruitful for the children, that they give a voice to children. I am glad that today this law will be passed that this will be put on a legal basis, on legal footing. We will, of course, agree to this law. But I already have to make a big criticism, and that is – the previous speaker Mr Fichtenbauer has already said – the big cost burden by the parents: 400 € per parent! Especially in such a situation, when divorces, when every euro is important, every euro has to be reversed and you have to bear a lot of loads anyway, so much money has to be spent on this. I don't understand why you're always so small about these investments, and so save when it comes to a few thousand euros, and on the other hand, you have 34 million more for civil servants from today to tomorrow. This is not a problem, but when it comes to children, every euro is turned ten times. That is why we put this criticism here, and I hope, Mrs Federal Minister, that you will find a solution in negotiations with the Minister of Finance in the sense of the right investment in the families. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to quote a statement by a family judge, which should actually bring to our parents' minds, but which should also make politics think that we are doing everything here, because the framework conditions for children in exceptional situations are still highly improved. This family judge said: Children who are tossed in such disputes bear features that do not make later life much easier. That's what we should always think about! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13151	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. 2 minutes desired speaking time are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13173	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Children in particular were often used as playball in divorce proceedings. Therefore, this law and the introduction of child support are very welcome. This child support is intended to provide assistance for children in divorce. He should be involved as a voice tube for the child and should also relieve the child in various care and visiting disputes. Above all, however, it should be countered that the child is used as a “arm” between the parents. Divorces are often very emotionally charged. Therefore, the child's assistance in these heated situations should be at the child's side. He should be able to support the child and also accompany him to court dates. Children thus receive their own voice and can thereby express their will and also their desires, as always. Dear Mr Fichtenbauer, it cannot, of course, be referred to as an all-healing remedy, but the child assistance is currently the only feasible form of organization in this area. I am therefore very sorry that we have not been able to reach a five-party agreement, precisely because it concerns the concerns of our children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13206	The next speaker to speak is Mrs. Dr. Winter. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13227	Mr President. Minister! May I continue my colleague Fichtenbauer's work quickly? - He's got the compensation. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States I now turn to the motion for a resolution: ‘The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is asked to forward to the National Council as soon as possible a government template which provides for the care of both parents as a legal rule. A departure from the common care should in individual cases only be provided for in the event of an objective risk to the child's well-being. Positive international experience and the Federal Republic of Germany’s arrangements, the proposed arrangements for the revision of the Swiss Federal Council’s Civil Code, Article 18 of the UN Convention on Children’s Rights and the recent jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights are to be taken into account.” Mr Fichtenbauer has actually carried out everything we discussed in the club on the Children's Aid Act. This was also addressed to Mr Scheibner, who said that the FPÖ club would not be discussed. We have very much discussed whether or not we should support this Children's Assistance Act. There are many positive approaches, but still a criticism is the high cost regulation for parents mentioned above. Second. I believe that the financial situation of the ministry is not dependent on what the contribution of the parents should be. If there is in the cover the annual expenditure for the assistance of these separation victims amounted to approximately €600 000, the revenue would be € 300 000, and this would have a positive impact on the female employment rate in Austria, I believe the cat will be bitten here. It is certainly the single women and single women who have great problems here, and on the other hand, of course, women are supported by this. I would like to add another: The common care of the separation victims is an enormously important thing, because there are infinitely many father associations coming to us. An important decision to do so is an ECJ judgment of 3. ==References====External links== Here the unmarried fathers, also against the will of the mother, are assigned a common custody right. I believe that this is in the sense of many fathers who like to fulfill their obligation, who want to be fathers, even though the partnerships do not exist anymore. A social policy decision has certainly been made before the fathers were granted the right to be obsorious. This is also seen in all our neighbouring countries – whether in Germany, Switzerland or Belgium. In Italy, there is a slightly different system, but the common right of care is also provided for. It is certainly a good decision, and we definitely support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13281	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I am still saying that the resolution just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13366	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steinhauser. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13387	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the With something, how should I say, I have noticed that you swallow when you pronounce my name; however I must interpret it. Mrs. Federal Minister, it is undisputed that this law will improve the situation of children in divorce or, above all, in custody and visitation disputes. The child assistance will be a personal contact who is emotionally and legally side by side. There was also a pilot who was very successful. But in one point, the pilot experiment did not show up because, so to speak, he could not test the full model yet: That was the question of financing. The children's assistance was free in the pilot's attempt, so the results were of course very promising. This is now changing in implementation: With 800 € for the parents for the first year and 500 € for each other half year, the condition of the child assistance changes significantly. The previous speakers have already said it: That's way too high! Now I know that the Minister of Finance has given you too little money for your judicial budget, but this cannot be used as an excuse for any important judicial action, why it will not be implemented optimally. [[towards Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner]] Even the argument of procedural assistance does not convince me if you know that the average income in Austria is €1 700, which is €1 200 net. That is why I am not assuming that a person who has a middle income in Austria will receive procedural assistance. The fact is, however, 1 200 € net is not much, and those who in a situation that has already been difficult, such as divorce – divorce is one of the causes of poverty number one – are also burdened by the child's assistance, will not only have no joy, but, if it goes badly, will experience the child's assistance as punishment by the court. This cannot be the meaning and purpose of the child assistance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I understand that money, which is not there, cannot be spent either. You have also stated that you do not currently find budgetary support for it and that you wish to support Parliament so that you can get more money for reducing the cost of child support. That is why I am all the more surprised when I make a request in the Committee on Justice, which is aimed at precisely this wording, namely that you should be supported by the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights, that you receive more money from the Minister of Finance during the next budget negotiations, so that the costs of the child assistance can be reduced. All the judges – Jarolim, Donnerbauer – have also indicated in the preliminary meeting that it is very important that there is more money for the child support. If you make the “fearest” and want to support you, Mrs Federal Minister, in the judicial committee, this will suddenly be voted down! I don't understand. I will continue to support you. Although I am saving you this request for support because SPÖ and ÖVP obviously do not want to support you, I still believe that we should set ourselves, regardless of a request for a goal, that you actually have more money for the project Children's Assistance so that we can reduce the costs in the Budget Support Act so that this model becomes a success model. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13445	Mrs Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13466	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Christoph is eight years old, his parents are getting divorced. The divorce procedure is not peaceful! Now the range is about Christoph, everyone claims the sole concern, mutual accusations are coming down on Christoph. Christoph feels lonely, he's desperate. Who is the evil, the mom or the dad? – Christoph thinks: Well, maybe I'm guilty of all this mess! He's dreaming bad, he can't sleep, he's crying secretly. He goes to the second class of folk school, his achievements are dramatically exemplified. The parents don't see his worries and fears at all, they are far too much concerned with their own concerns and especially with their revenge desires. Ladies and gentlemen, just in this situation, a family judge could order a child support for Christoph. He's supposed to be a voice tube to the child, give him a voice. He's supposed to relieve the child, prevent the child from being traumatized. A short while at the cost. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, justice also costs something! All resorts have to save, in all resorts the funds are very scarce. The taxpayer cannot make any contribution to all situations. A divorce is often worth a lot to parents, they pay a lot of money for divorce lawyers. There it will be on 400 € – for the child's well-being, well noticed! – no more arrival. In addition, there is the possibility of procedural assistance; there is the possibility that a person will not have to pay at all if he does not have the money; and – that is very important now – there is also the possibility of partial procedural assistance. So, as I said, the state ensures that even those who can't afford the benefits they can't afford. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13505	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. Your group has given you two minutes' thought. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13527	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Yes, we have heard from Christoph that this introduction of a child assistance as a social-psychological instrument to support children in difficult decision-making conflicts is very important. It is, as it were, the child's voice tube and can be used by the court if necessary for children up to 14 years. I am glad that, in special cases, there is also the possibility of this child support until the 16. This is often a problem for puberty children. One can say that this law has unfortunately become necessary, for we all know the cases in which children become the playball of their parents' own interests. In 2008, alone, there were 21,000, including 14,800 minors who were affected by the divorce of their parents. Children usually suffer very much from the separation of their parents, and they feel left alone and abandoned. This child support is intended to provide the children with support and relief. In short, at the cost: Cost participation is mainly criticised by the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that for a divorce attorney a lot of money is spent. But then the child's well-being must also be worth something. For those in need, we have heard it, there is procedural assistance and in order to avoid cases of hardship even the possibility of partial procedural assistance. In addition, I would point out that where the dispute is being fought correctly, it is mostly about a lot of money, and in this case a share of costs is also reasonable. Finally, I appeal to divorce parents to think about the well-being of their children and not to do all the possible and impossible things to escalate the situation, for it would be best if this child assistance were not needed at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13560	Next speaker: Mr Köfer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13581	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Child abducted from the kindergarten, from school, from the private environment – these are dramatic headlines that unfortunately occur and accumulate again and again. Nor can it be avoided whether there is a dispute in the form, whereas the term “abduction” is certainly not quite achievable. Many of these cases can still be settled in the family association, but very often the dispute of the parents becomes out of control and then comes before the judge and often also into the media. This is usually the sad end of a very crushing, long-standing small war of the parents, in which it is a matter of much, but never of the well-being of their own child. It doesn't matter what your children want anymore. These often experience exchange pools of feelings, and the fear of losing a parent often affects these children for their whole life. It is therefore important that these children of divorce be sided with a particularly trained and sensitive person in court proceedings on whether or not they are concerned. It remains to be hoped that this child assistance will also be accepted by the affected children and perceived as such. It is intended as a human support, psychological assistance and, above all, competent contact, simply and simply as its very personal representative of interest. The only drops of advertising, as I give colleagues Fichtenbauer and colleague Haubner rights, are the high cost of 400 € per parent in court fees.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13614	The last speaker to speak was Mrs Mag. Musiol. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13635	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Children's assistance is undoubtedly an important institution for the period of crisis divorce/divorcing and an important support for children. Much has already been said about the costs and costs incurred by parents. There is certainly a need for a different support, because there are certainly cases in which due to these costs there are difficulties. However, this applies not only to the children's assistance, but also to this discussion in the context of the budget decision relating to the visitation support. You might remember: Visiting accompaniment is also an important tool to enable, in particular, parents who have for a long time had no contact with their children, because of whatever causes, a gentle contact start under the supervision of trained staff. There's too little money for that too. My previous speakers have appealed to the parents, but they may think of their children during this difficult time. But I have to point out that, and I say this as one who has been working as a divorce and separation mediator for more than a decade, that this is not only a difficult time for the children, but also for the parents. To do everything right in this crisis situation, characterized by existential fears, is probably too high a claim. All the more so, it is the task of the State to create framework conditions, which, on the one hand, prevent prevention, so that a dispute and battle situation does not arise at all, and on the other hand, to provide support at this difficult time. This is not only a matter of oversight – I will say something about it – but also of the financial provision of visitor support, of child support, of mediation, of promoted mediation, but of course also of all the institutions that have the task of dealing with families in this situation. This also applies to the carriers of youth welfare, who can no longer do this preventive work, because the personnel situation is a difficult one. Finally, Mr Fichtenbauer's request that an automatic care be introduced. Two things are being mixed, namely the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights at the beginning of December and that request. From our side a clear rejection of this request, of the introduction of automatic care, because, as I have already done in the judicial committee, a legal regime cannot replace the necessary basis that must exist between parents. It needs a willingness to talk, it needs the ability of parents to talk about important things for their children. We will not be able to achieve this with a law. This requires the support I have previously given to help parents to come to such a conversation base. However, what I think needs to be discussed very well, and that also shows this EGMR judgment, is the equality of parents, in the case of the fathers who live in life partnership, with fathers living in marriage. One must certainly discuss whether fathers who live in a sincere relationship and care for their children should not also be given a chance to care for them. We are happy to be ready for this discussion. But there is certainly a no to an automatic care.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13677	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft Child Assistance Act in 486 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues. There is also a desire for separate vote by the honourable Members. Mr Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen. I shall therefore, first of all, be able to vote on the parts of the legislative proposal concerned by the proposed amendment and the request for separate vote on the remaining parts of the draft law. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Article 3 Z 3 as amended by the Government template. I am looking for those members of the House who are voting for this part of the bill for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues on Articles 4 Z 1 and Z 3 lit. b. Whoever gives his consent to this request, I would like to ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 564 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 565 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues and colleagues on separation victims – the introduction of common care. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[13:50:39]] 9. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (484 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Corporate Code (Law on Accounting Laws 2010 – RAG 2010) (566 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13794	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13821	Mr President. Ms. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, you are here in the room! This law sounds dry, brittle almost, but it is a very, very essential law, because it will greatly relieve an important group of companies, namely small businesses. It is a implementation of that standard cost model that the government has decided in 2006. The aim was to reduce the administrative costs of enterprises by 25 per cent by discharge of statutory information obligations. With this law, we raise the threshold for the accounting obligation of individual companies and individual companies from €400 000 to € 700 000. However, I confess and note this also: It would have been much better for me in favour of the success of the company if we could have raised the threshold to € 1 million, but let us once regard this improvement as a first big step in the right direction. This will save us a total of €55 million a year from these companies, which now have a lot to do with the crisis, and it will affect 12 000 companies. This is certainly a proper legal measure at the right time. I am also pleased that we can decide on these measures today in consensus. In addition, I am also very positive about the fact that this innovation is getting closer to the business and tax balance, which means that we can remove some of the double-tracks between corporate and tax balances internationally and ensure a particularly precise picture of the company's assets, financial and income situation. Last but not least, I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his work on this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13858	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13879	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I agree with the remarks made by my predecessor. This law largely relieves small and medium-sized enterprises of double-accounting expenses and the drawing-up of the annual accounts. The threshold set for the accounting obligation is increased from € 400 000 to € 700 000. This involves less income from the federal government. - You have to say that too. Finally, one last comment: It has been announced that further modernisation of the accounting rules will take place. Mrs Bundesminister, I would ask you to involve Parliament in these negotiations and discussions in good time. I would ask you to agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13919	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13940	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all: We will agree to this bill because it is an improvement of the state of affairs. Secondly, I am pleased that the government or the government parties have received our 2007 request, because we have already pointed out over two years ago that there was a massive deterioration for small businesses. In view of this, I am pleased that at that time we not only made this request to improve the economic situation of companies, but many others, and I assume that these too, with a delay of two or three years, are considered by the government to be good and perhaps also implemented. But what you must not forget and why you should not be so euphoric, Mr Ikrath or Mr Maier: You have stopped half way through this law! This is an improvement for companies, but if they really want to do so in the implementation, then they have to do so. They change certain other things, especially the Federal Tax Code, Because, of course, this is completely against it in many points. In other words, you also have to ensure that companies up to €600 000 of turnover, which voluntarily make double accounting, are not forced to report, because now they are very likely to be forced to balance from €400 000 on a voluntary basis. And in the course of the course of the course, you still have a disadvantage for the independent balance sheet holders. If an independent accountant manages or conducts an entity or advises on accounting issues or accounting issues and generates more than €400 000 in turnover, the independent accountant shall be obliged to hand over his clients to an economic trustee or tax advisor. In order to be able to apply this law effectively, I would also ask you to amend the Federal Tax Code in order to take account of the interests of the accounting accountants and of those companies that already voluntarily make double accounting. Accounting requirements up to €600 000 must also be increased. So do all the work – that would be pleasant; in many other areas maybe too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e13994	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Strutz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14016	Mr President. High house! This draft law contains substantial improvements for small and medium-sized enterprises. On the one hand, it brings a financial savings for small businesses that are now struggling with many uncertainties in an economically difficult and tense situation. On the other hand, there are also organizational reliefs, and in a second focus of these legislative innovations, improvements will be made in relation to the statement and comparability of balance sheets. The BZÖ will therefore agree to this draft. However, I think that, as the previous speaker stressed, we can only view him as a small mosaic to free the small and medium-sized economy, especially small businesses, one-man companies from tax laws and, above all, organisational burdens. This means that further innovation steps are required from our side and are expected by the Federal Government. In this sense: Approval by the BZÖ of this draft law, but only as a first step in the right direction. Even bigger and more complex reforms need to be followed, especially in tax law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14046	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14067	Ladies and gentlemen! This law is a so-called consensual matter. In this respect, it is not so easy for the fifth speaker to say something new. We will agree to the law. It's perfectly right, what was said: The increase in the threshold to the accounting obligation from € 400 000 to € 700 000 the small enterprises. About 12,000 micro-enterprises are to be affected. I'm sure that makes sense. They save themselves because they are no longer accountable and can convert their accounts to a more cost-effective income/expenditure account. In addition, it must not be forgotten that they also save their inventory work. All in all, a very useful measure, also because it saves the micro-contractors without it at the expense of employees or consumers. That is why we gladly agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14103	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14124	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I also agree with the new billing rules, but with only moderate joy. From my point of view, it would have been useful not to raise the limit from €400 000 to € 700 000 but at least € 1 million. This is because, especially in Tyrol, we have problems with small businesses in tourism, especially when it comes to the transfer of companies or to the resolution of companies. Especially in Western Austria, real estate prices are much higher than in the East. That's why in West Austria we also crossed this limit of €700 000 immediately at very small companies – at a small inn where there are two parking spaces in the front and around it. In fact, the value of these properties is completely beaten and never redeemed. These companies come into contact regularly when a operation is to be handed over. Many SMEs simply cannot afford to stop! We should work together to seek better solutions that are more useful to SMEs and to raise these limits in the future. On the other hand, I am pleased that in local VIII the “Digital Austria” and also the “Company Service Portal” will be presented, a new offer of a one-stop shop that will enable entrepreneurs in the future to sign up for a trade online or, for example, to report the annoying bureaucratic statistics, only once and not five times in parallel and each time to someone else. In the background, the statistical data will then be forwarded by the Federal Computerisation Office to the places they need. This will also be an important innovation and relief especially for the smaller companies in Austria and an overdue red tape reduction, which will save the company €300 million and I am very pleased about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14160	As the last speaker, Mr Scheibner is speaking. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14182	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said – I will not repeat the reasons – we agree to this proposal. It is a good initiative, especially for small businesses. What I am missing, and I have mentioned this several times in such debates, but further reliefs and simplifications, especially for small businesses, are now in a crisis situation. You know that, in the tax treatment of these companies, especially at Kleine GmbHs, there is a problem that, from the accounting, you have to deduct the turnover tax and the corporate tax, although you haven't got the money, not yet, or not at all. This is difficult for small businesses in particular. A customer goes into bankruptcy or does not pay his bills – which may be one of the very few customers of a small company –, the entrepreneur takes the invoice and immediately has to pay the turnover tax and next year the corporate tax for this account, although he does not have to book a euro in revenue. This puts many small businesses or individual companies in distress. This would be in addition to a suspension – that can only be done at EU level, but I also lack the initiatives of the Basel II provisions – an important measure at least to provide temporary relief for small businesses. I would ask you to look at this even more intensively.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14218	Mr Matznetter spoke on an actual correction. I refer to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14242	Mr President. Mr Scheibner has stated that, if the invoice recipient has gone into bankruptcy, a GmbH will still have to pay the corporate tax next year. I'm actually correcting: It's not that bad. It can, of course, immediately terminate the adjustment of the value as soon as the bankruptcy procedure has been opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14273	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 484 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, give their approval to this draft law, to a sign on this subject. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:05:19]] 10. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government template (483 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Code of Laws, the Notarial Regulations, the Training and Vocational Audit Accounting Act, the Professional Law Amending Act 2008, the Disciplinary Statute for Lawyers and Lawyers, the Law of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice Organisation Act, the Notarial Tariff Act and the Law of Law (Law Law Amending Act 2010 – BRÄG 2010) (567 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14328	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14355	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a matter of agreement here, the Professional Law Amendment Act. Changes are provided for in various professional rights, including in the legal order to which I now refer. It is now also mandatory in the law to integrate certain trust arrangements for the acquisition of trusts and their collateral. However, I would like to point out, because this was the subject of the Committee, that this was already provided for in the standing rights of the individual Bars and that only by the abolition of a corresponding pass by the Constitutional Court of Justice can a legal basis be created now. That's what we do with this. But it is not the case, as the Committee on Justice has just pointed out, that no measures have been taken to date, but it has already been provided for by the individual Bars in order to create a guarantee for trustees. It is therefore a good law, a basis for the safety of clients, for the safety of consumers. The second point I would like to mention is that now, drafts, i.e. lawyers, are also included as members with certain rights and obligations in the Bars. These are the two materials. I'm allowed to ask for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14393	The next item is the speech by Mr Köfer. Fixed speaking time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14414	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! A point in today's professional law amendment law concerns the status of future lawyers. They should be included in the board membership for the first time. Even if there may be voices out of circles of arfluent lawyers who do not want to do so or who can win little, it is nevertheless to be welcomed. Through this law there is now also a proper representation of the standing, which hopefully strengthens itself in the future for the professional interests of this group of persons. However, it also seems particularly noteworthy to me that the law to be passed today also regulates the obligations of a lawyer in connection with a trustee that he has taken over. This is done through the trustees concerned. This is to be welcomed, because this also has a positive effect on Austria's economic location.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14441	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Scheibner. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14465	Mr President. We can do it briefly, because it's a consensual matter. In principle, we are always very skeptical when it comes to compulsory membership in chambers. The Board of Advocates is an institution that makes sense, works well and is important for the representation of its members. It is useful to include lawyers in this right with their disciplinary order, with the corresponding social security measures. That is why we shall vote in favour of this proposal. Perhaps a problem arises that needs to be looked at even more carefully if these lawyers do not take the lawyer's profession, but switch to the private sector, but in principle we see this presentation positively.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14495	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 483 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:10:58]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (487, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Enforcement Act, the Criminal Procedure Order, the Youth Court Act 1988 and the Criminal Register Act (568 d.b.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 13. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 14. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment No 535/A(E) by Christian Lausch, colleagues on compulsory employment pursuant to § 44 StVG (571 d.B.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motion 694/A(E) for a resolution by Christian Lausch, colleagues on the use of dogs in judicial institutions (572 d.b.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment No 561/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, Members of Parliament, on effective measures to protect against child abuse and sexual offences (573 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14611	We now come to points 11 to 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Vilimsky. Voluntary speaking time limit: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14639	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to ask you for a favourable treatment of two requests made in the context of visits by Austrian judicial institutions and in discussions with judicial guards, with two things being particularly important to the guards: The first is the detection of infectious diseases of inmates. I can remind you of the year 2004 – a tragic thing – in which a prison with HIV infection has attacked with a Messer Justice Guard. Eight people have been injured – suspected of an infection. In order to protect local judicial guards, it would be a very good way of identifying infectious, dangerous diseases in such a way that judicial guards can respond to them in dealing with the prisoners. The second request concerns the verification of the reliability of Muslim pastoral care providers in judicial institutions. We know that there are problems in preaching in this area, not least from reports by the German Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism. The sermons in the prisons are without observation, without control, there is no reliability check. The purpose of the application is to carry out this verification of reliability. I believe that the result of the liberals in the local detention centre in the election of personnel representatives shows that we are properly representing the concerns of the judicial guards. It wouldn't be bad if you could join this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14672	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14693	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly to my previous speaker: As regards the detection of infectious diseases of prisoners, you know that data protection problems are opposed. It cannot be resolved with a motion for a resolution, but I believe that it is important to continue the discussion. ................................................................................................................................................................ The Minister of Justice will certainly take precautions – as will the question of reliability – and will examine and implement appropriate measures. What is also included in this whole package of various amendments to the Criminal Enforcement Act and the Criminal Code is a change in the area of fraud, which refers to or responds to various doping incidents in recent years, also in accordance with a resolution in the Sports Committee, in which it is clearly stated by the majority of votes that it is not intended or intended to suspect the self-hazardousness and self-injury. There are other measures necessary, including sports law or disciplinary nature. But what it is all about – and that is what I believe is right – is to introduce, with the appropriate clarification, a speciality of sport fraud, against a behaviour that is probably already punishable, namely that doping, especially in the field of professional sport, is a pretence of performance which is in fact not possible without these prohibited substances. In principle, I think it makes sense for us to decide on our own provision, because it is actually the case that athletes – especially professional athletes – are working against charges for advertising revenue and not only deceive their competitors, but also the sponsors, the public and the sports organisers, and are wrongly enriching themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14733	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14754	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Today we decide on a government template that defines or creates new offences such as doping fraud in the Criminal Code. We welcome this from the BZÖ. I believe that the past years and the precedents – whether in cycling or extreme sports – have shown that these crimes cannot be taken lightly. It is not just a financial fraud committed in sport, but it is in reality a worse place for the whole of broadband. There are sports that have been miscredited by individual black sheep – I would like to say – whether in cycling, whether in triathlon sports. There is a need for great expenditure to make it clear to the public that these benefits can be achieved even without taking drugs or banned substances – apart from the fact that, in particular, there is a need to speak of real negative effects on young people. What I think is to be questioned is the rules relating to doping fraud. There must also be financial damage in the event of a fraud. It concerns especially in the field of broadband – I want to call the triathlon events – simply all athletes who are damaged because they cannot achieve qualifications for other races – I was affected myself – when people take these forbidden substances or distribute them, which is even worse, and thus make profits. That is why we welcome the introduction of this crime. Regrettably, we must note the fact that there is no aggravation in the criminal code in relation to the effective fight against child abuse and sexual offenders, as we requested in the Committee through requests. Especially in the light of the fact that especially children as victims of sexual violence may suffer for a lifetime from the related traumatisations and consequences, we believe that an intensification of the provisions of sexual criminal law and an extension of the list of measures to prevent recurrences in the interests of the weakest of our society, namely the children, are essential. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Unfortunately, we have not received any support from the Committee on Justice for our request. I therefore appeal to you, Mrs Justice Minister, as a woman, as a mother – I don't know, perhaps you will be – simply to remember that the children in our society have no vote. Even in view of the increase in sexual assaults on children, including in the family, I believe that there is a single measure, which means deterrence – deterrence and information. That means we are in favour... – Mr. colleague, which side are you on?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] On the side of the victims, on the side of minor children – or do you want to innovation further down? - That's not our way. [[Call the Greens:level!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Our way means: more information! More information, that is, also to the public! We would like to be informed when, for example, a criminal is released. Parents have a right to experience – in the vicinity of schools, in the vicinity of kindergartens – when such rulers drift around again. At least this information must be provided to the public. We are on the side of the victims and not on the sides of the perpetrators, with regard to which data protection and other arguments are presented. In the context of repetition cases, it is also important to comply with this information requirement because we have seen – and the Minister of Justice needs only access to statistics – that sexual offenders often become repeat offenders. The best way of preventing this is from our point of view to increase the penalties to be imposed. I appeal to you, Mrs Justice Minister, in a future novel simply to see the children and the victims in the foreground of your interests and not always the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14806	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14827	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Very soon: I believe that there are only a whole series of modern changes, improvements in the Criminal Enforcement Act. In my opinion, it is also important that the judicial guard has been anchored in § 13a. However, I would like to see the opportunity – and I am sorry that Mr Donnerbauer is not present in the room now – to also underline what Mr Vilimsky said about the two applications. I think we should really accept this issue. That's a serious story. Perhaps we can do this, Mrs Minister, in one of the next meetings of the Committee on Justice. I believe that the colleagueship in the judicial institutions is certainly very interested in the fact that we are solving these issues. However, I would also like to make a request to you, Mrs Federal Minister, or to address it to the entire Federal Government: As important as modern legislative measures are, it is also important that we set ourselves up organisationally and in person accordingly. The population is a very difficult one, we know that, and it is becoming increasingly difficult. That is why we will work together to take precautions here, too, so that the service in the institutions which are much more difficult can also be performed in the interests of the State, but above all in the interests of the citizens. I would like to conclude by thanking you, Mrs Minister, for this opportunity with your officials, but above all with the colleagues of the Justice Department for their hard service and wish you a lot of success.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14866	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e14888	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to comment on my first request: a sad subject, it is about the use of dogs in judicial institutions. Yes, you smile, Mrs. Federal Minister – I don't think it's so funny. I think one cannot deny that there is a drug problem in judicial institutions that there are drug addicts. Of course, I agree with you if you say in your reply to my request to you, that the outside contact of the inmates cannot be dropped without giving up the objectives of execution. I fully agree with you. But that makes it clear again, of course: When inmates, drug addicts, leave the detention centre, most of the time objects, forbidden items and drugs are brought to the judicial centre. This makes the work of the judicial guards much easier – on the contrary, much more difficult. What I very much regret, Mrs Federal Minister, is the change of mind you have noted. I also gave a speech in April of this year on the fact that the dog is about to retire – with May – and that you said to me, so here in the direction of the speaker, that you want to maintain the service dog. That's what I thought: Look, this is a good thing! You can do something with the Federal Minister! – But see, you then had an extreme change of mind and are now actually a total opponent of the drug search dog! [[Abg. May. Molterer: How high is the pension of the dog?]] I don't quite understand. You're going from your extra-participal rail to the ÖVP. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's it!]] The ÖVP can't start with a drug dog in judicial institutions. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But they are in pension!]] This has proved to be the case for several press releases by the Justice Officer and the ÖVP Security Officer. She can't do anything with that in any way. I really have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen: The Security Officer and the Justice Officer have no idea what they are writing about, as the press releases have clearly shown. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Did the dog go in early retirement or with the hacker scheme? – Hackler regulation!]] It is a shame that the SPÖ – Otto Pendl is himself a judicial guard – has no opinion on this. At least I had the feeling, even in the judicial committee, that SPÖ has no opinion on this and simply takes the opinion of the ÖVP – as in so many things. [[Abg. Grill: Where are you taking this?]] That's really bad! Nor does it help if Mr Pendl is constantly thanking her colleagues for her hard duty – that is a good thing, but I am committed to it, but the officials have very little of it if you are here and are constantly thanking the Federal Ministers for their good work. [[Congratulations with members of the FPÖ]] It can't be. What officials need is any support when it comes to this form of crime, namely the introduction of drugs into judicial institutions. Mrs Bundesminister, you said in the Justice Committee: Actually, we're pretty out, because the dog leader – the only one who gave it – has withdrawn his dog. – You can't completely leave it that way. Of course, this is only half the truth once again. And by the way, it's noticed: The police, the Ministry of the Interior, would never discuss setting up their dogs or getting rid of them. That costs planning places, that costs money – that is what it is, not a question at all. If you say quite clearly in the Committee on Justice: We will not employ a dog or a dog guide, because it costs money, and we have not, nor have we budgeted it, but it is free of charge for the police!, then I have to resist it – I have already told you in the judicial committee –: That's not true, of course, because these are resources of the Ministry of the Interior. It's just as tax money and it's just the same money that's being taken in here. Of course, there's some money that I'm going to make it to you. I can tell you why, after the trial project, the dog has withdrawn the dog and had more or less pruning on it. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Because the dog went to pension!]] [[Call the ÖVP:After the hacker rule!]] He was made very difficult on the part of the Executive Board. You must not forget – I only mention one point –: No car was available in this project period. He had to use his own car and carry out 20 percent of the use of the private car. The promised reports were not actually delivered either. He always tried to do training with the police – that was largely rejected because, it was said, no staff was there for it. [[Abg. May. Molterer: (in the direction of Abg. Otto, did the dog retire with the hacker scheme?]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Pendl.]] Good. As I said, you're not for the service dog, you've made this change of mind. In April 2009 it was you. This is, of course, very disappointing. What I would like to say on my second request, as regards compulsory employment in accordance with § 44 StVG: Mrs. Federal Minister, you know very well that about 30 to 40 percent of Austrian judicial inmates cannot be employed. It's just that you say – that's what it's in the law –: If he is willing to work, and there can be no work provided to him, then this prisoner gets money. I wrote out a few numbers, and they're quite interesting, I have to say, In November 2009, in Vienna-Josefstadt, Austria's largest JA, 439 inmates were made to appear on a voluntary basis, but unemployed basis, and received 33,60 € per month. – If you calculate this, this is a judicial institution for the one month 14 750 €. If we now assume that 40 percent are willing to work but, of course, are not actually willing to work, do nothing for the organization, but still cash, then it is about €720 000 a year, which alone is strangled by this law, I say once, will. This would be easy and easy, according to my calculations, three dogs, three service dogs leaders – and thus we would have good structures. I just want to point out that in your ministry, of course, money is very likely to be wasted and money is misimposed. And, as I said, the change of sense in your mind is really very, very... – Yes, yes, it's all right. [[Abg. Amon: Here you go! Now take it back! “Money is thrown away” – what is this expression?]] It is! [[Abg. Amon: That's incredible!]] Look, visit. You're a judicial body once: You'll see! Do it the way my colleague Vilimsky does, do it the way I do: [[Abg. Amon: No, like my colleague, Vilimsky, I certainly don’t! I do it as I do...!]] Visit judicial institutions! Then you'll know more. As I said, I am very sorry about this change in your mind – but please. I also regret that you have not enabled me to have a four-eye conversation with you – my efforts have not yet been fruitful, I must say openly and honestly. Your cabinet told me you don't have time, your schedule is very tense. – You have used the time to support the KdEÖ, the ÖVP-near personnel representatives in the PV election. [[Hello-run at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Amon: That's not how it is again!]] Actually, it didn't do much, but good. Subjects would be more important, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15115	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15136	Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Lausch’s opinion clearly “came to the dog”, I would like to focus on this law again, and that is the question of the rights of victims. [[Abg. Lausch: That the greens certainly don't start anything, that's not surprising!]] This is because today no speaker and no speaker has mentioned that this law, at least punctually – the woman minister would probably have implemented it – extends the rights of sacrifice. In future, victims of violence will be informed of the first unattended exit from prison or release. This is a good and important step. But, Mrs. Federal Minister, that's too little. You know for yourself – I suppose the White Ring victim organisation has contacted you too – that actually goes far too little. The circle of victims who would have to be informed would have to be extended. There's an example that shows very well and that I don't want to keep from you: The sister of a murdered woman just turned to the White Ring, and the convict who was in prison in Austria tried to contact her in writing and by phone. The white ring then turned to the line of the institution, which again suppressed the correspondence. But the white ring could not tell the victim more. He could only calm it down to the extent that due to the severity of the crime, the lady could be informed that it is not expected to be released and not to be released. Only the fact that these victims, the sister of the murdered, did not know when the perpetrator will be released from prison, has led to her not having come to rest at all, but that psychotherapy as a middle-sized victim was difficult to think of. This example shows: The circle of victims who would have to be informed is extended, on the one hand, to relatives and on the other hand to unrelated witnesses. I have referred to this in the Committee on Justice and I have actually assumed that until the plenary session, we are seriously thinking about extending the category of victims. I regret that this has not happened and that this has not even been a subject. And, Mrs. Federal Minister, I can't spare you that I am dissatisfied with the reasons why it comes to doing so. The reason is, and this is already a standard sentence – I suppose, that the employees don't have to give you any more notes, but that's almost a standard sheet that you have here: This is not covered by our judicial budget, we must reject it for cost reasons. I remember the child support – now we have it again. This is always at the heart of the judicial debate! Clearly, this is a lack of justice policy that we have to lead here if important rights of sacrifice cannot be implemented in the law because there is no money. Only: That's unacceptable, that's simply unacceptable! The victims are happy to be led in their mouths, because of course this makes a good policy, but if it costs something, then the rights of the victims are quickly forgotten. And I think that's unbearable. That is why we are putting forward the amendment tabled by Members Steinhauser, friends and friends, who have just the extension of this category of victims, as I have described it. I'm not going to make an illusion, and I realize that this is not going to be accepted today, but we should think seriously about it. It's about fates, and you can really move something. Aside from the headlines, this is a real relief for those concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15174	Mr Steinhauser, you must also read the request if you want to bring it in. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: I’ve assumed he’s long enough so he won’t be read!]] [[Abg. Amon: But only when it is distributed! Then he has to be distributed!]] We will no longer get a distribution in this short period of time. There are only a few more speakers. If I may ask you to read the motion very quickly, we have done enough in the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15213	So, the request is made to decide on the following: 1. Article II(20) is amended as follows: 20. The following paragraph shall be added to § 149. 5 added: ‘(5) In so far as one in § 70 para. 1 StPO named victim, one/e witness, respectively. an alertIn this case, they shall immediately be informed of the first unattended departure and of the forthcoming or executed release of the prisoner. The understanding shall be given to the head of the institution.’ 2. Article III Point 3 is amended as follows: 3rd. Paragraph 70(1) is added as follows: ‘ Victim of violence in apartments (§ 38a SPG), victim according to § 65 Z 1 lit. a and b StPO and victims to whom a preliminary order has been issued in accordance with § §§ 382b, 382e or 382g EO and other victims, witnesses or indicators, where it is assumed that the convict is responsible for the reimbursement or reimbursement of the notice. Furthermore, at the latest at the time of their hearing within the meaning of § 177(5) and of the fact that they are entitled, upon request, to be agreed immediately by the first of the unattended leave of the institution or by the forthcoming or future release of the prisoner (§ 149 para. 5 StVG).’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15276	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15360	Next speaker: Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15381	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take part in the present package, namely the topic of doping. As you all know, the Austrian athletes really do great, they are our idols, and so it is so important that we protect honest athletes from dishonest competitors. In order to send a signal, the existing fraud database was enriched by a qualification. It is therefore, as has been said, a qualification of the existing fraud database, i.e. it must: There is: an enrichment plan, a deception plan, an asset damage plan. – The doping alone, the self-consumption alone is to be recognized as previously by the sports law, and the right to sport has been greatly strengthened by colleague Darabos. This is very important: Doping alone is not a fraud; there must be additional features of action. For the rest of the very important package: I would like to take a very brief look at Mr Lausch's speech. Mr Lausch, I sometimes feel that you have only one problem, namely the problem of the dog. I'm very much for a dog, not a question. I have the service dog – by the way, it's Brooke, he has a name! – also met personally. I would have liked to keep him or to take him back because he was voluntarily withdrawn. The problem we have in this context – and this is well known in general – is once again the budget, as Mr Steinhauser has pointed out. A service dog, a single service dog costs us at least € 63 540 a year. Here comes the feed money, the expense compensation, the swinger system, own combination with air conditioning, fuel costs, personnel costs, veterinary costs and, and, plus. And that's just not manageable for a dog. That doesn't pay off. He always had to be driven from one institution to another. We take the drug dogs of the Ministry of the Interior. They're looking at the judicial institutions. So: We do everything we can to prevent drugs in the judicial institutions. This means we come to the other points of this package: It is now intended to facilitate drug testing and alcohol testing in the judicial institutions. Then there should be criminal intensifications in the event of illicit contact. The package reception is regulated differently. It should also not be mentioned that toilet systems should be structurally separated in the cells. One of the most important provisions is that victims should now be informed if they want it, that is, if the perpetrator is released from a sexual offence or a violent act, will be released or unattended. The victim should know about this. It is a long-standing demand of the victim protection institutions that we have now complied with. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying: The Austrian law enforcement officials do really great work. You don't have it easy. They work behind bars in the secret, and that is simply not seen in society. And so you have to support them, you have to make work as easy as possible, make working conditions more pleasant and create safety. Safety in the inside is then also security outwards. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15454	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15475	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Today we decide to amend the Criminal Code and the Criminal Enforcement Act. Different requirements for implementation have made this government template necessary. I am glad that this will also improve the position of victims, that it will be re-regulated, i.e. that victims will be informed of the arrest of their perpetrators in the future when they apply for it. Another point that seems important to me is the regulation that doping is qualified as a serious fraud. It is not about criminalising athletes, but about protecting them – protecting them from unfair competition, but also from health risks. Unfortunately, there have been reports of sports fraud with doping agents in recent times. The detection of serious doping cases has greatly damaged the image of sport. Doping is a misbehavior, something has to be done. Of course, it makes a difference whether a hobby sportsman gets a cup or a top sportsman has a high victory premium. This is why there is a difference between self-doping and fraud. In the future, therefore, doping in sport should be qualified as a serious fraud if there is a conscious deception with the use of illicit substances or illicit methods to increase performance. I would like to stress once again: It is not about criminalising athletes, it is about fighting doping specifically and effectively so that top sports in Austria are carried out cleanly. We want to continue looking forward to Austrian successes and to being proud of our athletes who are not baptized.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15520	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15542	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to express my views solely on the amendment of the Criminal Code. In the Criminal Code, § 147 para. 1 para. 1a added to doping. This does not mean that every Baptist is punished – that is important to me, because this discussion has gone in the wrong direction – but that the action that was not punishable before is not punishable even now. This requires the conditions of fraud, namely intention, enrichment, and deception. That is, in the end, it is exactly the same group of persons. There is only one qualification for this, which means that even at a low level of €100, the sport fraud is already becoming a serious fraud. This means, however, that the line of Parliament, namely not to punish all the Baptizers, but only those who become relevant on the basis of the fundamentals, has been taken into account here, but in the end has also taken the view that: The sport should stay clean. Therefore, the sport fraud has already been qualified as a serious fraud from a low level of €100. Finally, I mean, this is a good signal and the right way, namely not to criminalise the athletes, but to punish those who make it a business and do so to be able to do this business.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15572	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15593	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer once again to what Mr Steinhauser said in relation to the rights of victims. You're... I have just said – and that is true – that the understanding of the victims is a long-standing demand. But a long-standing demand was also – and I say this from experience as chairman of the Violence Center – to extend this circle. May I give you a specific example of how we changed something relatively quickly in 2005 due to a dramatic incident? At the time, a client was with us who was cared for, who only happened to know in a random and very short time that the culprit was released from the U-port. She experienced this by chance and much too short-term, and in the end, the culprit shot the woman. – In response to this dramatic incident, we have changed this relatively quickly. I am saying this because you said in committee that we now need an evaluation on this subject: Let's take a look at the rights of the victims, and then let's go on! – The anti-violence centres and the victim protection facilities such as the Weise Ring have given sufficient examples of why it would be necessary to communicate with the witnesses upon request or family upon request. It's not a money effort, it's just a matter of pressing a buttoner. We agree, of course, with the proposal, Mrs Minister, but I am sorry that we have remained half-way, that we have not been able to convince the EIA either, because we have enough experience and examples of how urgently this would have been necessary to prevent the retraumatization of relatives and witnesses. I'm sorry. Despite all of this, we will agree to the overall proposal and hope that we will expand this circle in the next step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15636	Mr Fazekas has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15657	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to take two important decisions from this whole package; they have already been addressed by my previous speakers. One is § 147 in the Criminal Code. This is about fighting doping vehement and more intensively, but without criminalizing the athlete or athlete. I mean, there's a really good rule. We must not forget that it is also a very essential social policy matter. The ground floor on the topic of doping is set for the many clubs, where the athletes participate from the beginning. Therefore, also the many volunteered functionalists and also the trainers have an important and responsible task, namely to be convinced that doping is not a cavalier offence and ultimately to pass on this important attitude to the guardians. I mean, you have to work more on that. It was important to create a very essential spagate. But this has been achieved by this law. One essential aspect is also the determination of the information requirement of victims in the release of criminals under certain conditions. I can only follow the words of my previous speaker. Mrs Bundesministeren, we should really discuss this! There can be no administrative problems, so it is an overload. Finally, this is what is happening. It is only at the request of those concerned, and making an extract more can no longer be problematic. That's what we should work on. I think then something good worked out. Of course, it is a very important rule that determines the information of those who are traumatized, who are very difficult and who simply need to be informed. The White Ring's anti-violence centres are doing excellent work. In this sense, I thank you. We may still be able to develop a little more precisely in these provisions.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15708	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the criminal code, the law of enforcement, the rules of criminal proceedings and other laws, into 487 of the supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Mr Steinhauser, Members of Parliament, as well as a request for a separate vote by Members Mag. Mr Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen. I will therefore, first of all, agree on the parts of the legislative text affected by the amendment or by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. I therefore come to the separate vote on Rule II Z 2 lit. a, Z 5 and Z 10 as amended by the Government template. I am looking for those Members who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Steinhauser, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment to Article II Z20. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to him to give a positive sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for those members of the House who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall therefore proceed to a separate vote on Article II Z 25 as amended by the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it to give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. The Members of Parliament also have power. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment which refers to Article III Z3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who support this amendment to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for those members of the House who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 569 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 570 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 571 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 572 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 573 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[14:56:16]] 17. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 869/A by Mr Mag. Heribert Donnerbauer, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Copyright Law and Article III of the Copyright Law Novelle 2005 (Copyright Law Novelle 2009 – UrhG-Nov 2009) (574 d.B.) 18. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (482 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the collecting company law 2006 and the Takeover Act (575 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15881	We now come to points 17 and 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15908	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Over the last few days, we have worked intensively on the obligation to inform the top institutions and have clearly come to the conviction that what the government is now proposing is not something we want and can support. We were never for the kind. 20 of the Federal Constitution, that's why we also need the Abs. 2 do not support and accordingly do not support the adaptation towards the information law of the respective ministers. We believe that from now on there is the possibility that the respective department heads will be able to inform themselves continuously about the progress in the way: How will you decide the case XY? – First of all, this clearly gives an advantage in information and second, always an influence on the decision. I believe that the right of interconnection can not be affected if one agrees with a corresponding amendment that I would like to make. [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that's the more reasonable variant of control. At TOP 17: We have always been for the right of succession and are therefore also now for the reduction in price developments below €3 000, in the case from €2 500. We are also copyrighted against term of protection within the meaning of the inheritance law and therefore also against term of protection and inheritance law in consequence. If the EU directive does not come to this for a long time, this is in line with our ideas. That is why we will be happy to accept this proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e15978	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16043	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16064	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! What is it all about in the law of succession? – It has a major impact on the Austrian art market. In Austria, since 2006, we have a regime which, when changing the ownership of a work of art, provides for a follow-up right, and an EU directive has since 2001 provided for a uniform EU-wide law that would include not only living artists but also their heirs or relatives. They all know that art trading companies, especially in difficult economic times, have a very difficult life, and we in Austria also have a small-scale structure – that is, a number of employees from one to two employees – and I think that it is more than justified to extend these transitional periods to two years again, i.e. to look forward to the right of succession on heirs a little later. For this, there is not only the reason for the small-scale structure, but also, above all, the organisational effort associated with it – for example, an IHS study has stated that the effort to take care of inheritance law would amount to up to € 245 instead of €35 per work sold so far – but the most significant argument would be that many other countries in Europe, for example, Great Britain or Switzerland, have also suspended this right to inheritance – as well as the USA – and we do not want to create competitive disadvantages for Austrian companies. On the contrary: In economically difficult times, the Austrian art market belongs to support, and we do so with this law!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16097	Mr Jarolim has been mentioned as the next speaker. Fixed speaking time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16147	Ladies and gentlemen! In brief: It is certainly not as clear as my previous speaker said, because of course the right of consequence already has its justification. – This extension was justified only by the fact that we have a certain competitive relationship with Switzerland and England. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] The balance of interests was created by reducing the limit from €3 000 to €2500, and I hope that this could contribute a little bit to finding a fair solution here. I think she's just. We will therefore support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16186	Mr Hübner has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to 2 minutes. - Please. Mr. Dr. Hübner doesn't seem to be in the hall. This is what Mr Scheibner has to say for two minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16222	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We agree with the two requests, including the amendment tabled by Mr Zinggl, because we think it is quite reasonable that the Minister responsible should be able to inform himself so that he, too, will be obliged to inform us. What would still concern me in this area is that you don't forget – and we haven't discussed it here for a long time – that you focus on cultural and art promotion especially where artists don't have a market yet – these are young artists. Here you should make even stronger efforts to enable them to create a market so that they can start their career accordingly, and perhaps with some established artist a little back with the promotions. As I said, We agree with the two proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16256	There are no more words available to me. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft copyright law Novelle 2009 and the title and receipt in 574 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is, in turn, the unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the collecting company law and the takeover law, in 482 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1 § 31 and Art. 2 § 28 refers. Whoever joins these amendments, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[15:07:00]] 19. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Activity Report of Rail Control GmbH – Rail Regulation 2008 presented by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology (III-93 d.B.) (522 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16351	We're entering the 19th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Heinzl. I'll set the clock up to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16381	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The 2008 activity report of the Rail Control Society shows us that the last year was a moving year, but above all – you can say that – was a successful year for the railways [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr. Scheibner, are you now the SPÖ's hope for the future? Young ascent?]] In passenger transport, the number of passengers could be increased to 233 million – a plus of 11 million compared to 2007 – and a total of 10.5 billion kilometers were returned. I believe that this is also an important contribution to environmental protection. In long-distance transport, ladies and gentlemen, this year the launch of the Rainlet from Munich to Vienna and Budapest and the football Em have had a positive impact. This clearly shows: Investments and targeted offers make the railway attractive to their customers. Improvements were also made in public transport in 2008. The cycle offer around Innsbruck, Graz and Klagenfurt, but also the Pendlerbahn Wien–Vienna Neustadt has been significantly improved. The new EU passenger directive is also mentioned in the 2008 report of Rail Control GmbH. Behind this somewhat technical designation there are improvements for the train drivers. Ladies and gentlemen! Since 3. In the event of delays, passengers in long-distance transport also have a right to compensation – from one hour late, there is this claim. However, there are not only long-distance travelers travelling by train, so in Austria there will be a separate scheme for hundreds of thousands of people commuting daily with trains to work: They too will have a claim for compensation in the future! [[Abg. Scheibner: (on spectators leaving the gallery, showing) They all go!]] The corresponding law was introduced this week in the Council of Ministers: In the future, commuters will be reimbursed 10 percent of the price of their monthly card if the trains are not 90 percent on time. This scheme is to be applicable in the field of public transport from 2010. Ladies and gentlemen! The interests of the passengers thus move even more into the centre and for the railway companies this will be an important incentive to further expand the customer orientation. Quality, reliability and punctuality must be a priority in public transport. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, it is also appropriate to thank all 42 000 railers who have made it possible for such a positive monitoring report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16456	Mr Dr Maier has now come to speak. I'll set the clock up to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16477	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is an excellent report which, of course, also shows that there are delays that there is also impunity that there are unkindnesses et cetera. I have been very happy to read the ads that are designed and switched by the Austrian Bundesbahnen there or there. Here you can also read about the great services of the passenger trains, the bus driver et cetera: That's where I read in an listing of 11ths. November: “People rely on the performance of the train and want to be able to retrieve it in good quality several times a day.” And the responsible speaker of Personenverkehr AG then says: “If this succeeds, success is a logical consequence.” So the turnaround means that if this fails, it is a drama; and if I read the report correctly – and there it goes only over 2008, for 2009 we will only receive this report – then I start to worry, I said, to worry. There has recently been a price, the so - called Frusticus, which is something similar to the “Oscar”. The ‘frustikus’ is awarded by the professional association for user-friendliness, for a product that is in principle functioning but which is not to be used properly. When this “frustikus” was first awarded, it once caught a babyphone manufacturer, even a mobile operator caught it, but the Austrian federal railways caught it four times. The Federal Railways have so “cleaned off” at this public prize because the ticket machine offers a sluggish service – and so there was the “frustikus” in the equipment segment. The roadmap information, which is called SCOTTY mobile, has received the “frustikus” for the area software. The website of the ÖBB at www.oebb.at has received the “Frustikus” for the websites. And in order to get a “frusticus” in all four areas, a switch official in the area of customer service has also received the “frustikus”. You see, ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing to do with any polemic representations now, but it is objectively presented by the professional association for user-friendliness. - There's something there! Mrs Bundesminister, there is something wrong with the system, and all the reports that exist can still be rejoiced and presented in advertisements, somehow that goes beyond reality. – That’s a little bit of a shadow and reality, they don’t really keep their own balance. If you look at the infrastructure report, in which only 49 percent view the train equipment and the train service as positive – a year earlier it was 55 percent – this is a proof that it has something. – And if the responsible speaker of Personenverkehr AG points out that all of this is wrong, because 200 managers were also interviewed in this infrastructure report, then it is really a bad thing who argues that way. So, Mrs. Federal Minister, I would like to say that the management should be called upon to “get along” a little harder and to give the corresponding rules: Benchmarking is announced, and there is a good goal for both Germany and Switzerland. Finally, because Mr Heinzl meant how pleased it is for those who have delays to receive compensation. [[Abg. Heinzl: It was Mr. Supermanager Huber, who was 600 million...!]] I ask you what you have already planned for this position in the 2010 budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16558	Mr Kunasek has now come to speak. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16579	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Now we have actually received two points of view, namely the wonderful one from Anton Heinzl, who prefers to come to the woman with a bouquet of flowers each time, because everything is so “toll” and so “class” and the other side of colleague Maier. – I try to find the truth in the middle. The fact is that we will take note of this report. . I would also like to thank Rail-Control GmbH for the very comprehensive and interesting report, which provides a real insight into banking and the railway market. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that we have little growth in freight transport – I think it should also be remembered by the leadership, as the situation should be set in line with activities and improve the supply – but on the other hand, we also have massive difficulties in the field of passenger transport with punctuality. That is what I am right about to say to Mr Maier: Customer satisfaction is of course an important factor, and if we want the ÖBB to be accepted accordingly and used that the railway is used, customer satisfaction is very important. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that around a quarter of the long-distance trains are delayed. It is clear that this also has a negative impact on customer satisfaction. A VCÖ survey was also published in the report of the Suffocating Office of Rail Control GmbH, according to which almost half of the respondents are dissatisfied with the offer in the road map and with the delays. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is to be observed – and we have already tried to discuss this several times in the Committee – that the trend of thinning the timetables will continue. First of all, it was the sideways, such as the Gesäusebahn, now we are already at direct connections. It was at least in the autumn planning to set up the Graz-Linz direct link, and only by massive additions from the countries of Upper Austria and Styria has there been a continuation. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a company that receives €3.5 billion each year in tax money should not, I believe, call for direct train connections between national capitals if there are no taxpayers' payments. There are also juicy bonus payments to the managers – one should perhaps start there to make savings. Finally, a short situation report from the Transport Committee, because Mr Maier spoke today of the "Frustikus": So if someone deserves the Frusticus, then it is our Transport Committee to look at how to deal with opposition applications there – from FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ. I have looked at this once and I have noticed that during this legislative period, we had 50 opposition requests on the agenda and 40 of them were postponed. – I say quite openly to you, so one should not make parliamentarianism! Unfortunately, Mr Cap is not here now – he always preaches this new parliamentaryism, and that we are cordially invited to cooperate. [[Abg. Scheibner: But the Pendl will judge it to him.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Klubobmann Pendl will do all this...!]] We want to cooperate, only in the Committee on Transport, at least, do not let us do this in the government groups! [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is a lot to do in the area of transport. I would like more constructive cooperation on the part of the SPÖ and the ÖVP: in the sense of a functioning public transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16676	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16743	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16765	Madam President. Minister! High house! The ÖBB, Austria's most famous construction site, with full, dirty and delayed trains – so far as the coalition partner is concerned; Member of the Maier has just gone out – for which you, Minister Bures, are responsible. And now to the delays: Mrs. Minister, you said in the Committee that by 2014, you will try to eliminate the sharp increase in slow travel points. – I hear the message well, I alone lack faith. The route between Salzburg and Vienna is a very good example: The train is already arriving late, and that goes all the way to Vienna. Delays of 20 minutes or 40 minutes, such as the last time, due to the slow down points and plant disturbances are not rare, ladies and gentlemen! But it's up to many things at the ÖBB, as it showed up yesterday in Linz on the station. There, a wheelchair driver was taken to the Rainjet by the security team in Linz – and not by employees of the ÖBB. The said wheelchair driver had a reservation for himself and his accompaniment for the trip to Vienna, but see – I suppose you, ladies and gentlemen, know what is coming – the reservation system did not work, at least at the disabled places. Mrs Minister, how should a person with disabilities who has reserved a wheelchair seat be seated in a normal seat?- Oh, my God! A light look was then the train companion who was very nice and telephoned around and who tried to calm the whole thing down. But perhaps he should have called – Mr Haberzettl is looking down now – also at the ÖBB trade union, which might have sent by one of the 100 independent works councils to care for the concerns of the disabled. There is enough money for expensive ads, Mrs Minister – I have shown them to you in committee – there is enough. The works councils which have been exempted are also from the coalition partner, namely Mr Reinhold Lopatka, State Secretary. As I said, money for ads you have enough. I would suggest that, in view of the precarious situation at the ÖBB, a bit be saved, as proposed by the coalition partner. Therefore: Act instead of sanding – and privatize! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16814	Mrs. Dr. Moser is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16835	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much to Mr Fürnkranz for drawing up this good report. This really gives a detailed insight into the various segments of the railway operation and, as a regulatory authority, also provides appropriate data. Mrs Bures, this report would really be, so to speak, a nightcastle reading par excellence for you to see where you should put your hands everywhere in order to bring public transport with the core area ÖBB – after all, it is the largest company in Austria; 42 000 staff – so to say the ÖBB to frontwoman or frontman. I know that in the international comparison, the ÖBB is not even so bad, you have to say that honestly, but you are well overrun by the Swiss railways and by numerous German regional railways, and also by private. And you won't believe it, even in England, rail traffic has now become quite normalized again and sometimes has a really good offer, has become better. Only: I can’t apply the “better” to the ÖBB, as this report, which is now before us from the railway regulation, shows, but the offer has become worse. For example, page 81 of this report reads: Driving times in the ÖBB core network with 204.9 minutes delay. In 2007 it was still 107.7 minutes late per day. So 100 percent increase in lateness per day, Mrs. Minister! I know that conservation is a systematic work that needs years to be made permanent. And certainly too little attention has been paid to the inventory in the black and blue era. But the fact that she has been so negative in 2008 also has to do with the fact that too little attention has been paid to it under the Faymann era. Mrs Minister, you will be quite right for me, whether it be climate protection, whether it be environmental protection, whether it be, above all, the provision of the population with sustainable mobility: All of this speaks for the ÖBB. Only: The policy you partially make is a construction policy that you impose on the ÖBB. Let us look at it very specifically! – The closure of the current South Railway Station is under way. As soon as the construction work for the main station is to begin, they have even begun. I learned half an hour ago that the train drivers, who from now on will manage Meidling as the fishing point of the railways in Austria for the commuters to deal with this, are only now roughly trained. Please, today we have the 10. ==References== It's going on December, then a new timetable is in place – and the drivers are only roughly trained now! So, the mud is preprogrammed. It is preprogrammed what we had to experience in summer and autumn: Delays, detachment of trains, inadequate information. At the main station, I see the tormented commuters from Vienna South and from the eastern region, from the Burgenland. And all this has a simple reason, and this is why there are three “H”: Huber, who wanted to build absolutely, Häupl, who wanted to have a new district, and Hartig, who will not be able to cope with the organization of my opinion. Mrs. Minister, they have to intervene in good time now. Actually, you should have intervened in the timetable. We have now had a pendulum action because people will suffer, what will happen from the 13th century. ==References====External links== For example, mothers can no longer bring their children to kindergarten because the train drives ten minutes earlier and the kindergarten is not locked until later. They are in real need of organizing their family life. I'd like to forward the corresponding email to you. Unfortunately, much too little attention is given to this in the design of the roadmap. There are other keywords: The ÖBB is a permanent personnel construction site. The red-black proportion or black-red proportion is more or less the “side Line’ for each company. It doesn't make sense, just because someone has the wrong color or because he doesn't fit into the concept of leaving the jobs completely unoccupied. The passenger transport does not have a financial responsibility other than half-mayr, which is at the same time the financial controller for the whole holding. The ÖBB are a construction site of black and red in the field of personal policy. I don't even want to talk about Saxinger. There's a miserable swamp. Thus, Saxinger, as the board of directors, was not only able to pay for himself, but also paid fees for activities that should be done within his boardwork. If it were additional work, then one should have written it out, then the invoices should have been made by his firm, then he would not have used his private home as an invoice sender. This is a misunderstanding special – and all of this you have tolerated! I could still point out that there is still enough, but I just mention one more thing: what the negotiations with the countries on the ordered transport services or the ordered commuting trains are about to happen. In this respect, we have in this report – and I would like to close the bow to my thanks to Mr Fürnkranz – a wonderful bar graph showing how much the individual countries order; they also order at different tariffs. In Tyrol and Vorarlberg, well paid, but in Lower Austria, it is beaten. This can be enjoyed by the ÖBB since 1998. This is not the case: you provide traffic at the expense of the federal government, and then, if the ÖBB goes badly, the offers are simply deleted, and then people stay on the road or have to resort to the car. 20 percent more car travelers – this is the result of your negative public transport policy and the negative local transport policy! It is a multicolored negative policy: It is negative from black, it is negative from blue, it is negative from orange and unfortunately not positive from red. Mrs Bures, you have the power to finally give positive red signals. I'll give you our pendulum cards now. What the report shows is really not just something for the night cabinet, but there you have to do daily work tasks and fill out exercise sheets. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16924	Next speaker: Mrs. Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e16945	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Many of you have known me for a very long time from my work here in the High House and therefore know that it is truly not my strengths to speak things up. I do not intend to do so with regard to the Austrian Federal Railways company. But I hope you will understand that I will not accept without contradiction that one of the largest Austrian companies, an infrastructure company in our country, which many people in Austria are proud of and dependent on, is being mistreated that a company that is extremely important to so many people is being mistreated until what happens, what a speaker has said, and what some speakers probably want: that it is ruined. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: It's the biggest!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We don't want that!]] I won't be for that! I am in favour of a strong train that is there for the commuters of this country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am saying this because I know that we have to work every day on the fact that this company is even more focused on customers' wishes, that this company is looking even more at what people need in terms of mobility, what pupils need in terms of mobility. But it is also important to me that some of you take note of the fact that there is much to do and that we have to work daily to ensure that this company works, but by far it is not as bad as it is trying to present here. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Eben!]] I don't know any group, no private company, no multinational group, where some of our own Group entrepreneurs – and all of us here – are all Austrians – are making their own company so bad and falling down to the detriment of those people who need it and those who are employed there. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We don't lead it, we pay for it!]] I'm just telling you a few numbers: The company Österreichische Bundesbahnen travels 10 billion miles in the year. We also need to finance this together. The Federal Government makes the land network available, and the countries of course have to make their contribution. And in the near supply we have to pay everyone in order to ensure this density of supply. There are 1.2 million people daily with the Austrian Bundesbahnen. And these people have not deserved to be presented continuously as if one had to be able to get into a train at all! I repeat: 1.2 million people are transported by the ÖBB day after day. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, everyone now has the word “world climate summit” in their mouths. I would like to say to anyone who takes climate change seriously: What would happen in our country, what would the CO2 emissions be if the train stopped tomorrow? If we were to privatise the railway as in the United Kingdom and let it launder as it happened in Britain in the field of infrastructure, then we would have 360 000 trucks more on the road every month because the railway transports a lot of goods. [[Abg. Hagen: Take an example in Switzerland!]] This does not make a significant contribution to climate protection by transporting 9 million tonnes of goods. It is very important that this company does. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am in favour of optimizing all measures in this company to deliver an even better performance for people. But I'm not afraid of the international comparison. And that's where I can tell you: In Austria, the second most people within the European Union are transported by rail. The Austrian Federal Railways are in second place in passenger transport in the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But not with quality!]] And we are in the first place within the EU when it comes to freight transport. We have the highest share of freight transport on rail throughout the European Union. 30 percent of the goods in Austria are transported by the Austrian Federal Railways on the rails. Because the good example of Germany has come: There it is 10 percent, while in Austria 30 percent of the goods are transported on the rails and we are thus in the EU's peak field. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now for comparison with Switzerland, which I always do: Switzerland made infrastructure investments 10, 15, 20 years ago. I am glad that we are doing this today: that we are fastening today's business packages, that we are making investments in the railways today, as high as we have never seen in the Second Republic, that we are renovating hundreds of railway stations throughout Austria, that we are making hundreds of railway crossings safer, that we are finally expanding the routes across the burner to increase freight traffic on the rails and not just taking groundings, making announcements there today seven days a week, 24 hours a day, so that we have a modern and ecological infrastructure in Austria for our children. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: 15 billion for motorways!]] [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wheeler.]] I really invite everyone here in the House – regardless of which political party you belong to – to contribute to the fact that we have a strong Austrian company with the ÖBB, which is so important for the people and for the economic location. Let's go to work constructively – and not with an access, where we can make things that need to be better, but are actually not as bad, even worse than they really are! I think this is a mentality that is not good for the people who need this company and those who are busy there. We have a forward strategy at the Austrian Federal Railways, we have clear objectives as to what the railway network must look like in the next 20, 30 years. We have clear funding targets for this company. And I have clear guidelines for the management, which is measured by the fact that people have to be able to rely on the track, that the railway has to be on time, and that the ratio of road and rail in favour of the rail is improved by bringing even more traffic from the road to the rail. I believe that if we all work on these objectives – without destructive but with positive energy – then we, the economic location and the people in our country, will still benefit greatly from this company. Furthermore, I believe that the privatisation of this infrastructure company would be the ruin for this important company. That is why I can only say: As long as it is in my political responsibility, there will be no privatisation of the ÖBB for so long.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17113	Mr Hell has now come to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17134	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister, for standing up to the company ÖBB and for standing above all with the employees in this company who do excellent work every day for 24 hours a day and who really did not deserve this discussion, as it is being conducted here in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Sometimes I really wonder if Members who speak here to the ÖBB, to rail and rail transport know how a railway operation works at all. The report before us today does not have a lapidary list, but provides a real picture and provides an insight into the development of the local railway company and the railway market in 2008. Currently 24 railway companies share the Austrian market, particularly in the field of freight transport. The prerequisite for the development of a functioning liberalised rail transport system is fair competition and the appropriate conditions that this competition can actually take place. I would now like to look at two points in more detail. The first is the use of technical surveillance. The objective of the Austrian railway operation was and is to maintain the high level of safety that Austria has in the rail network. All railway companies operating the Austrian rail network are independent companies and thus withdraw from all internal controls of the ÖBB Group. Therefore, it was necessary to create a separate department, technical monitoring, in order to ensure the high level of safety in Austria. According to standardised checks applicable to all EVUs, trains, wagons, motor vehicles, as well as drivers are controlled. This report shows the importance of these reviews when some of the 4 695 checks have found some 35 percent deviations from the standards, even though there have been slight declines in certain areas where there have been minor and minor errors. These reviews are particularly necessary and important in terms of the liberalisation of passenger transport. This report gives a very good insight into market developments in freight and passenger transport. This shows that in the freight sector 10 percent of the market shares of private railway companies are already handled. There are even more in certain sections. In the Tyrolean area, it is even 50 percent. Considering the use of the trains, it is noted that private railway companies have a train load of 1,233 tonnes in freight transport, but the ÖBB only has 961 tonnes. It can be seen that the ÖBB company Rail Cargo Austria has competitive disadvantages against private EVUs due to its legal mandate – the operation of local shift freight trains or the operation of connecting stations – which lead mainly complete trains. Ladies and gentlemen, this report clearly shows the achievements in the field of rail transport in Austria, and it is excellently done. A few words to those ladies and gentlemen who have in recent weeks and months addressed false and objectively unfounded criticisms to the 42 000 railers: I want to deposit here again that since 1. In January 1995 all railways will be taken up after the ASVG. It was black and blue/orange that divided the company into 18 companies. In the meantime, there are – including subsidiaries – 24 companies. ==References== January 2004 applies to all companies the Employment Constitution Act, according to which the Works Councils are elected, and there are as many exempt works councils as this Act provides for, which applies to all works councils in Austria – 101 instead of 160, as has been wrongly reported in the morning; please note. – Thank you for this excellent report!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17216	Mr Rädler has now come to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17240	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, you are quite right with your situation regarding Bundesbahn, Mrs Bundesminister, and we are also on this railway, because rural areas in particular need railways as an economic factor, for security of supply, for transport, but also from an ecological point of view. Today, when we discuss the rail control report, we note that very positive things are in this report, such as the fact that freight traffic has a plus – although only 0.3 percent – and passenger traffic is a plus of 3.3 percent, but there are also infrastructure charges of €438 million, of which €19 million are private. The 17 private operators already have a market share of around 10 percent. When we look at the modernisation and attractiveness of the West Railway – this will be an important factor in Lower Austria – we see that this will also be lucrative and interesting for private providers. [[Abg. Großruck: Yes, yes!]] I am only a little surprised by the statements made by the two previous speakers from Lower Austria. Mr Heinzl, if you are talking about the fact that an improvement in the situation has just taken place on the shuttle route from Vienna to Vienna, I wonder where you have these numbers. [[Abg. Heinzl: From the control report! You don't seem to have read that! Read it!]] Look at reality and reality! Within two days we have collected 600 signatures in a single community on the Aspang railway, because there on 13th. There was a change of timetable to the detriment of the commuters in January. – For such things, you should act as SPÖ’s transport spokesperson and especially as Lower Austrian MPs! - Even if you're getting loud, it's not true. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Heinzl.]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] Mr Hell would like to play Ping-Pong between Black, Blue and Orange, all of whom are guilty of the situation in the Federal Railways or whatever. [[Abg. Heinzl: Only black are guilty, or orange a little...!]] Let us not talk about how we can assign this politically, but about how we can offer passengers an attractive federal railway in the future! – That would be my wish.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17319	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17340	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! All in all, this is a very positive report, which also highlights the achievements of our Mrs Minister. Although Mr Rädler has now recognised that there are very positive aspects of this report, I have voted a little better again, because we have only tried to find the negative in this report so far. Mrs Moser, if you only found negative things on our Austrian railway, then I cannot go with you very much, because I think you should be interested in the fact that our railway is getting even better, even more advanced – and if you build up, then there are also disabilities, and, of course, disabilities are also expressed in delays. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Then you didn't listen!]] This can happen, but the ÖBB and the Minister of Labour are working to fix these things and we are taking our train where we all wish. This economically difficult year has not stopped even before the ÖBB. Until the middle of the year, the result was still extremely good, but after that, the economic crisis also became apparent at the ÖBB. Nevertheless, a 0.3 percent increase in freight traffic has been found, and I think that is very positive. Positive improvements have also been made in recent years. Thus, the railjet transport Munich – Vienna – Budapest and the improvement of the compression with train pairs between Vienna and Prague have been extremely positive. This report also states that the average travel time per passenger is 49 kilometres in 2007 and 45 kilometres in 2008, and I think that is also the meaning of local transport – in this situation our environmental situation is extremely positive. We work together to improve our railways! - We need her.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17377	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17398	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Rail-Control GmbH report provides detailed information about the Austrian railway network with a length of 6 383 kilometres, with the operating length of the largest operator, ÖBB, 5 664 kilometers. If you look at the route network compared to other European countries, it is interesting to note that at 687 kilometres we are significantly above the EU track at 430 kilometres, but also above that of the Swiss railway model country with 474 kilometres. The Czechs have 924 kilometers of larger route networks and 791 kilometers of Hungary. However, the length of the route network only says something about the quality. Much more has to do with the issue of punctuality. Most of all, commuters rightly criticize frequent delays. In 2008, for example, punctuality fell by 5.9 percentage points to 73.5 percent. The main reason for this is that late transfer trains are called by the neighboring railways, construction work, plant disturbances and slow travel points. It is very welcome that the number of long-distance trains is reduced by means of the economic package. Ladies and gentlemen, the quality of public transport is considered to be a measure of quality of life in rural areas. Moves to road transport increase pollution and, on the other hand, the safety risk of road users, which we have already debated today. In my opinion, therefore, an attractive link between Linz and Graz – the second and third largest city in Austria – is an important concern. This requires both structural measures and a customer-friendly design of the roadmaps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17438	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17462	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We already see in the discussion that this report, of course, gives ignition, because much has to be improved. Although there are some things that have developed positively, there are certainly things – in the area of inconsistency and delays or overall in the quality of services – where there is a need for improvement. From my point of view, this is not solved with compensation payments for dissatisfied customers. All in all, we must try to optimize and expand the management in the area of the railway. It is positive, as the report shows, that there is also increasing private competition, because this infrastructure requires a total of high budget resources. I think it is important that there is a competition on the rails and that 17 private services already offer these services. This is particularly positive with us in Tyrol, because it simply helps to relieve the streets. In my view, however, it is crucial for the future that we implement the demands of this report, and that we repress the shortcomings identified in this report, increase quality at all levels, increase customer satisfaction and overall improve the system. The aim of all of this must be to shift the increasing traffic from road to rail, that we have satisfied customers in both passenger and freight transport, and that we, as a whole – I believe, we agree – show the commitment to the rail by supporting the railway, also in the future rely on the railway and give it strength for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17498	Now comes Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17519	Madam President. Estimated Federal Minister! High house! In view of the climate conference, which is currently taking place in Copenhagen, I would like to highlight the great importance of public transport, but also to highlight the role of public transport. Incontrovertible is that the efforts of the federal railways to improve road transport in particular are quite present. The introduction of the railjet is such, and as a member of the region, I am pleased that negotiations with the ÖBB have succeeded in reaching additional stop in Wörgl and Jenbach for the Tyrolean Unterland. With the timetable change next year, there will also be stopovers in Kufstein. In the field of transport, however, the ÖBB's financial commitment is mainly intended to end. In the meantime, almost every railway kilometer has to be ordered and purchased by the public – the countries – by the public authorities. Thus, the country of Tyrol gets deeply into the pockets, so that an attractive offer can continue to be offered. We want to continue moving from road to rail and thus continue to make a significant contribution to environmental protection. Just yesterday, a milestone was set in Tyrol. With the signing of the new local transport service contract, our students, students and students will be offered a much improved offer. This forward-looking contract has been concluded for 10 years, and every year, the country grants €26 million for the local transport trains alone. For comparison: Today it was €20 million. The order performance fixed for Tyrol is incredible 6.6 million train kilometres. This means an increase of 730 000 kilometres. Certainly a great throw that has succeeded – but it is expensive to buy. The Federal Railways can be rewarded for these improvements by the countries. In fact, it is their most immediate task to bring their passengers, their guests from place A to place B. I therefore call for the most urgent reform of the ETUC, Mrs Minister. Funding is intended to be made available to enable efficient local transport even without millions of heavy national subsidies. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17556	Mr Hagen has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17577	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President. High house! I need to make a brief statement, as I can't just leave a lot in the room. The Federal Minister mentioned earlier that Austria's transport figures in the EU area are very good, but she has already mentioned that the SBB – the Swiss Federal Railway – was privatized 15 years ago. If not only the EU countries, but all of Europe, the SBB is both a leader in passenger transport and freight transport. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is, in my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, that we are 15 years late in Austria. – You yourself have agreed to this, Mrs Minister, and we must look for the mistake! That is what we owe to Mr Haberzettl with his red Bonzen union, and that is something that is clean. [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Incredible!]] Madam Minister, I call on you to clear out this Privilegienstadel ÖBB! If you're sick, you're on the right path!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17639	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of this report III-93 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Abg. Heinzl: Mr Rädler, I am glad that you are there too!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Upgradable!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, colleagues, on the maintenance of the direct train link between Graz and Bregenz. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is not the majority and thus rejected. [[15:55:37]] 20. Point Health Committee report on the Government template (466, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Medical Products Act and the Medicines Act (549 d.b.) 21. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 743/A(E) by Dr Wolfgang Spadiut, Members of Parliament, on the extension of the pharmaceutical authorisation service to private prescriptions for medicinal products covered by the Drugs Act or the Psychotropic Regulation (550 d.b.) 22. Point Health Committee report on amendment 699/A(E) by Mrs Gerald Grosz, ladies and gentlemen, on compliance with the principle of equality in the case of prescriptions (553d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17718	We now come to points 20 to 22 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Karlsböck was the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17746	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Medicines Act and the Medicines Act have provided an opportunity to take greater account of consumer protection by creating an even greater distinction between the definition of a medicinal product and that of a medical device. In fact, medical devices must not give consumers the impression that they are medicinal products. It is also impossible for the consumer to distinguish between the concept and the active substance of unknown substances. In Austria, we have rather relied on the EU, but the EU can take time to formulate the law. A national single entry would have been a possibility, but this opportunity has unfortunately been missed. At all events, the patient and the consumer in the field of drug safety in Austria does not necessarily have the best cards. There is the unart in Europe – the dangerous unart! – the packing and re-dating of medicines. I would just like to explain quickly the principle of this: It is about the end that in a country within the EU where drugs are sold cheaply – price fluctuations exist – medicines are purchased in a large-scale way by wholesalers, then packaged, packed and provided with new language, new expiry date and the like, and placed on the market in a country where they can be sold more expensively. – We have been criticising this for a long time, and we would have expected more attention to be paid to consumer protection. It will be particularly dramatic, however, when state authorities are considering participating in this type of repackaging and re-dating. As part of the examination of this law, we have been confronted with an amendment to the Government template 466 of the supplements in which the government parties have referred to simply being able to place on the market, through emergency planning and the pandemic, drug stocks that are not fortunately needed. A draft law was therefore put forward. That means simply saying and in short words: It is just to extend the shelf life date, we say from 2009 to 2011. There was then a committee statement that the drug may be put into circulation if the quality, effectiveness and safety are given. – This is Absurdistan! A no-na-net law is that, or a no-na-net setting! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is a dangerous threat when the ministry tries to recover the money in this way from a contract that was concluded and which was not favourable for the Republic because it was obviously too expensive and too much to buy. It is a good thing to get the money back, but the way in which this is to happen is not in the sense of patients and consumers. That is why we do not agree with this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17794	Mr Spindelberger has now come to speak. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17815	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr. Dr. Karlsböck, I would be right if you didn't always talk about everything and stick to the truth, because fact is that we have one of the safest drug laws in the world and also one of the safest medical device laws. But we also found in the Committee that special circumstances require special rules. Therefore, it was necessary to adapt both the Medical Products Act and the Medicines Act to EU law in order to even improve the European authorisation system. In concrete terms, it is about the fact that old drug registrations – i.e. those which have been approved in Austria for a long time – can now be evaluated in accordance with EU law in order to ensure equal treatment for all medicinal products in the future. In the same way, as you rightly said, an amendment was tabled by the government parties in the Committee on Health last week to allow, as mentioned earlier, a special scheme for the routes of taxation, for example in the case of H1N1 influenza and for the approved vaccine. This means, in addition, that medicinal products which can be kept in stock in the context of an epidemic, a crisis situation or a pandemic, as is the case with the pandemic recognised and proclaimed by the World Health Organization, may be kept in stock, in order to be able to reverse stocks. But, Dr. Karlsböck, let's stick to the truth: It may be said, and this also says our amendment, that if proprietary medicinal products in the field of civil and civil protection have been stored, they will only be used over their course if there is a prior technical examination by the doctor. has given the AGES a remedial control laboratory and confirms that the effectiveness and quality are safe. The decision-making of the current novelle on the Medical Products Act will therefore also implement relevant national tasks in addition to the necessary EU adaptations, such as allocations on the rules for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of medical products.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17861	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17882	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In principle, the Medical Products Act could find the approval of the BZÖ, especially because it is an improvement in the European authorisation system – in particular, a better clinical evaluation and, above all, the extension of the medical product concept to software. This is in principle acceptable, but what we vehemently criticise is what my previous speakers have said here, namely the safety of drugs under point 7, the special provisions relating to crisis situations. Those colleagues who have been in the committee can remember that there has been a so-called amendment amendment, and we have already said that this is an occasion legislation – an occasion legislation because probably too much vaccine has been stored for the so-called pig flu and one basically does not know what to do with it. What You can read this today in a daily newspaper. There it says: “Swine flu vaccination will become a flop. There are currently 600 000 doses of vaccines stored throughout Austria. Pig flu: 200 000 vaccinated, influenza: 1 million.” [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: This is about Tamiflu...!]] So one speaks of shopkeepers who are stored – and therefore for us this special provision is nothing but a legalization of the sale of what is not applied. That is why, I think, it is negligent to act in the context of drug safety and the safety of medical devices – and that is why we will not give our consent to this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17917	Mr Sonnberger has now come to speak. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17938	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The implementation of EU directives into national law is at the heart of the draft amending the Medical Products and Medicines Act. It focuses on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to active implantable medical devices and the placing on the market of biocidal products. Mr Spindelberger has already made a very competent presentation of the special regulation on distribution channels, so I can save myself the repetition. Of course, the safety of consumers and patients is also a priority, and this has also been noted by a committee statement in committee. I call for this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17973	Mrs Oberhauser spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the GOG rules. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e17998	Madam President. Mrs Haubner, referring to today’s article in “ÖsterREICH”, claimed that this law had been amended in order to release the vaccine that was specially produced for this pandemic by 2011. - That's wrong. This is Tamiflu, which was still purchased under the Federal Minister of Smoking-Kallat at the time, I think. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Now you have him!]] [[Abg. Haubner keeps the previously quoted article up to date.]] A vaccine, which you produce extra for a flu strain, can probably not be used in 2010 or 2011, because the flu strain will not be the same. – Not everything in the paper is true!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18035	Mr Dr Spadiut has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18063	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, individuals are made easy to obtain private prescriptions for medicines containing psychotropic substances. These medicines can then be used for self-consumption, but they can also be passed on. I do not want to criminalise anyone, but the transfer of these drugs as drug replacements is becoming more and more common practice. It's true that you can't simply ban these drugs, but you can create them, combined with alcohol, strong states of intoxication, which can even lead to death. Reports from the USA, where these drugs can be purchased freely – for example in supermarkets – confirm this statement. Austria is one of the leading countries in the field of addiction prevention and control, but it should not be possible to improve them. In connection with the rollout of the e-card, the established doctors who have insurance contracts were equipped with the pharmaceutical authorisation system. This medicinal product authorisation system allows doctors to obtain electronic approvals for medicinal products subject to the supervision of the chief physician. This makes it possible to trace which doctor prescribed the medicine that patients prescribed. This drug authorisation system could also be used for the collection of medicines containing psychotropic substances. Austria should do everything to prevent medicinal products containing psychotropic substances from being obtained via unfairly acquired private recipes. For this purpose, the information systems are to be used in Austria. One should set up a central body covering the data collection of all medicines containing psychotropic substances through the ABS in the area of all social security providers involved in the prescription billing. Private doctors must also be involved. We don't want anything other than how many drugs that contain psychotropic substances are taken up and prescribed by the doctors. These figures allow us to determine whether the procedure for the delivery of these drugs should be changed. Ladies and gentlemen! With all the efficiency of our anti-drug programme, this would be another way of closing a gap!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18108	Mr Grünewald. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18129	Madam President. Federal Minister! I already admit that no law is 100 percent perfect – yet this change of medical devices and pharmaceuticals law is a clear improvement. It implements an EU directive that ultimately also affects patient safety – on pharmaceutical safety and product safety. This goes from implants to genetically modified cells that can be used therapeutically, to tumor antibodies and everything else. You know that the demarcations have partly caused serious legal uncertainty in clinical trials or even errors in clinical trials and definitions that were unfavorable, not to say: they have partially violated the provisions of EU and Ethics Commissions. It is crucial that clinical trials data are collected centrally in Europe and, of course, it is also possible to understand them. This prevents data from disappearing, possibly manipulated, beautified, or held back, so that attempts are repeated due to supposedly too few numbers, but not so small at all. So such registers make sense at least! It is also useful that there is an EU directive that serves the safety of medicines for minors – yes, including newborns – and that requires clinical trials in order not to carry out experiments on children under certain strict conditions and maximum protection of young, small patients – that is a great step forward! This raised concerns first, but all the concerns could really be rebutted scientifically and ethically, so we agree with this law. We would only wish that the Convention on Biomedicine and Ethics would finally be ratified by the Republic of Austria in order to close the gaps and move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18167	Mr Deputies has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18188	Madam President. Estimated Minister of Health! An area in this health debate is still open, namely the misunderstandings and problems encountered by social security institutions. On the starting point: Older and sick people depend on the existing infrastructures of doctors and house pharmacies to be able to redeem their recipe there immediately. This is not possible anywhere, however, because some of the cash registers refuse to settle the house billings via the electronic data exchange system. Unfortunately, this forces elderly patients to pre-finance their medicines. They must explain money for medicines they have received from the optional home pharmacies. They then have to submit the pharmaceutical invoices to their cash desks and often receive only up to 80 percent of the actual drug costs. This process, ladies and gentlemen, is cumbersome and older people no longer reasonable. At the same time, the post office for the issue of the certificate of deposit relating to the retention, billing and administrative expenses exceeds the amount of the received by a multiple number. In doing so, the costs explode, and thus the medical home pharmacies lose their most original function, namely the procurement of medicines for elderly and sick people to significantly simplify. There are some social security funds – to the detriment of the people who finance the marode system with 83 percent of their contributions. The 22 social security institutions lack a willingness to reform for uniform and slim structures. In order to address these shortcomings, we have tabled a necessary request – you know that, Minister of Health. In this case, as the responsible head of the department, you will be asked to stop the disparity of patients in the calculation of the benefits provided on health certificate. These equal treatment requirements were voted by ÖVP and SPÖ in the Health Committee with clear arguments. In this way, the recipe bills are still carried out differently from the cash registers and are contrary to the principle of equality. – You, Federal Minister, together with SPÖ and ÖVP, have prevented long-term administrative simplification.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18233	Now comes Mr. Ing. Oh, my God, my God. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18255	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of this item on the agenda, I should like to say once again that by adopting this amendment, we are implementing significant improvements in the fields of medical devices and pharmaceuticals legislation. On some changes a few comments in a short time: The authorisation system for medical products will be faster and more comprehensible. In the past, it will be clear which category a product in development will be classified. This will allow the corresponding authorisations to be obtained in a timely manner. In the Ministry of Health, the Delimitation and Classification Advisory Board is set up. There, the demarcation between medicinal products and medical products is discussed; this allows for quick and fairly safe decisions in this extremely complex subject area. This law also makes it possible to make market surveillance more effective and sustainable. This is particularly important because in recent years product counterfeiting has become increasingly common in the medical market. Two last remarks: The clinical evaluation is now understood process-oriented. This means that the assessment and documentation process begins with the launch of the market and is also continued. The members of the Ethics Commission will have to reveal their relationship with industry in the future. The purpose of this scheme is to ensure that the slightest suspicion of a member's partiality cannot occur – a reasonable preventive measure. To sum up, these are useful adjustments to Community law that we are happy to support.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18306	Next speaker: Federal Minister Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18327	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With this Federal Act, which amends the Medical Medicines Act and the Medicines Act, we create the opportunity to remain in EU law again. We are also able to fulfil an EU mandate through this law, namely that we can also approve drugs that have been in the process for a longer time. I think that legal certainty in drugs will be increased by introducing a delimitation advisory board – which has the task of presenting difficult delimitation issues – in the ministry. The Federal Office for Safety in Health is given increased tasks and is also responsible for the availability of medicines in Austria. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that the amendment is also being dealt with, as experience with the pandemic allows us to ensure that we have the right medicines at the right time, that we can also ensure orderly and secure distribution channels on a legal basis and so that we can also take care of the crisis. I agree with the speech by the honourable Member about the fact that electronic data collection is a measure which is used for the registration of insured persons in the social security sector and has nothing to do with the billing. I remember that we have had the e-card for several years and the time of the health certificates has long been over. – I ask you to see things as they are at present. This is not a problem for the population, because there are hardly any electoral doctors who also have a house apotheque. The care is provided by contractual doctors with house apotheques.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18371	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. There is no need for a final word from the report. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Medical Products Act and the Medicines Act in 549 of the Supplements. Mr Haubner has asked for a separate vote. I shall therefore vote first of all on the parts affected by this request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 2 points 7 and 8 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who give their approval to these parts to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. –This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the request from the Health Committee to take note of his report 550 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to be a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we are voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its report 553 of the supplements. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[16:22:34]] 23. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (467, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law, which amends the Medical Law 1998 (13. Medical Law Novelle) (547 d.a.) 24. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (465, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Pharmacy Chamber Act 2001 (548 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18475	We come to points 23 and 24 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. I'll set the clock up to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18502	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We are negotiating today an amendment to the Pharmacy Chamber Act and an amendment to the Medical Law. We will not give our consent to both legislative instruments. It is true that both legislative changes have also become necessary because of the fact that you, Red and Black, absolutely wanted to lift the social partners into the constitutional rank and also raised the Chambers in the constitutional rank. We believe that this is the wrong way and that it was not right. We were against it at the time, and we will therefore not support the constitutional changes that are now necessary. In reality, what is happening now is a classic example of multi-liability in administration. That is to say, one divides the competences, one continues to divide them, one makes them even more opaque and even more opaque. At the same time, the Chambers should be removed from their autonomy, they should also cut down self-government and, so to speak, be transferred to a political system and managed there. This is a politicalization of the professions and also of the chambers. We are absolutely voting against that. I also believe that it is totally reluctant to the liberal professions that their competences are increasingly being circumcised. That means that what is to be introduced here is the end of the professions. And we will never give this our consent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think self-management is an important instrument. I also believe that the professions are far too valuable to “castle” them into a political system. We now have an open-end situation: We do not know what else is to come into the transferred area, where the Minister of State can influence everywhere – or perhaps one of his successors. This is the introduction of the end of the professions. I think you would be well advised to think about it, to give a precise definition and to consider whether you want it: whether you really want to undermine the free professions. We are not available from FPÖ for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18560	Mrs Oberhauser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18581	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can already imagine that one can be divided about a law, but I could not imagine that one can tell so much nonsense about a law or two laws, namely with regard to the politicization of self-government and circumcision of the rights of the chambers. The opposite is the case. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Really?]] - If you'd read it, you'd probably know. Yeah, sure, because it's part of a Member's responsible work to look at the things you're talking about here, at least so far that you know what you're talking about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the contrary: The administrative burden is reduced. They will be repealed if they are not needed, but they will not have to be put to the vote in advance. This means that the administrative burden is reduced. The allocation to its own and transferred scope is simply much, much clearer. I believe that we have all discussed, in particular, the issue of quality assurance in recent years, whether it has happened that quality assurance is only in the hands of the doctor's chamber. We were all sure that we would like doctors not to carry out quality assurance alone, that we do not want to give up their know-how and also believe that they are the best that can, but we still want someone who looks at their work. And that's exactly what you've done now. Quality assurance has gone into the transferred scope of action. That is to say, the board of doctors creates its criteria, also makes the test assignments, but ultimately the minister has the instruction to see that this is also done properly. On the other hand, it can be said that self-government and chambers are raised in the constitutional rank – that is undisputed – but it cannot be said that this setting serves to politicalize and complicate. The exact opposite is the case! It is easier, it is more clearly and transparently assigned – both in the Pharmacy Chamber Act and in the Medical Law. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: For whom?]] I believe that there has been something very good that can only be congratulated on the Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18637	Mrs Haubner is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18658	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The BZÖ will not agree to the Medical Law and the Pharmacy Chamber Act, as already stated in the Committee, for the very simple reason, because we were against the fact that chambers are raised in the constitutional rank in 2007, that chambers and social partners are laid down in the Constitution. This adjustment of the Pharmacy Chamber and Doctorate Act is now necessary because it must be adapted to the new requirements. We were opposed at the time because we are opposed to the fact that forced membership, which they are in part in the Chambers, is laid down. We now have clarity; at that time we could not be told exactly how many social partners came into this. Now we have at least as far as the pharmacy chamber and the doctor's chamber are concerned, as it should look. We believe that this is a false sign, because so far the Minister has only had a general duty of oversight over all chamber activities, now he has a right of guidance in the transferred field of action. The scope of the transferred effect has been substantially expanded. There you can also see: The doctors have negotiated a little better than the pharmacists because they have less in the transferred field of action – so there are also differences. The doctors and pharmacists are taken to the short line by the Minister – I say quite clearly – and there is also a massive and significant administrative burden. Mrs Oberhauser, you said it was no longer managed. - But that's in the novelle! The Minister said in the Committee that he relativized the word ‘significant’: Because the Ministry of Health is so economical, the word “significant ” can be left. But if the explanatory notes say “massive” or “significant increase in enforcement expenditure”, it is clear to me that there is more administration, more costs, more staff. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially in times like those where all are talking about administrative reform, the government says where they want to save anywhere that €3 billion is given absolute savings, one shows again in this area, even if it is a small area, how one should not do it. I'm wondering what to do. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, as has been said, we do not agree with this, because we need administrative reduction, we need a State restriction to the essentials, we need to reduce bureaucracy and we need money, especially in the health system, where it is particularly necessary: for patients. That is enough reason for us not to give our approval to these two government proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18736	Mr Rasinger has now come to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18758	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mrs Haubner, you have actually committed a thematic error, but before everyone falls asleep – the Pharmacy Chamber Act and the Medical Law are not exactly big brubles – I just wanted to say: It's less bureaucracy. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: For the countries!]] Once chambers agree to such a law voluntarily, you can assume that these will certainly drive very well. But what is it about? – The Minister needs certain supervisory rights for all self-management. You can't give it up in any way, because health is, I think, the most important thing: We only have a health. The fact that the system works shows me the latest OECD numbers. We really have a success story there. We would all be over 80 years old once, if we were born today. That's a great thing: That's where we're above the OECD section. If I were a woman, I'd have a chance to get 82.9 years old. If all Austrians were non-smoking and normal-weight, they would be added another 3.7 years. These are numbers, given that you almost have to hope to experience all of this in mental health. And if you look at the numbers further – I would have triggered almost a marriage with me at home; that was really very interesting, I've been sitting and reading all evening – then you get on top of it, we're in place seven at the cost and get best grades almost everywhere. But where we don't get good grades, is: We have far too many hospital beds, 60 percent more than the OECD cut, with the OECD cut for me really not the measure of all things. In the summer, hundreds of Austrians flee from the OECD countries of Spain, Norway – wurst, where – to the ach so good Austria. And Austria is really good in this regard too. The fact is, we're in the hospital too much. And the fact is that we are quite, very bad in the prevention of youth! That's a smooth five. She smokes too much – top place! –, drink too much, move far too little and eat the wrong thing. I have to say quite honestly, these are the diseases and the cost of tomorrow. And prevention costs nothing! We are really far below the OECD section. Now I'm telling you as a doctor: Even the best operation team will not be able to make up for what we are missing today in 40, 50 years. We can't guarantee every Austrian a bypass operation, we can't guarantee every Austrian a white bed in the long term. That's not the wish either. The OECD tells us quite clearly: We have a very, very good system, but we also have problems. In conclusion: Doctoral Chamber and Pharmacy Chamber, but also the Ministry of Health and all the people here – after all, every tenth job in the health care system – are called to join in. But health is also something that affects everyone in their own responsibility. The OECD has already pointed out very clearly that it is not possible to give everything to the Minister of Health or to the doctors and pharmacists, but that a little self-initiative is also required – from office to office – because we cannot manage the patient to death.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18803	Next, Mr. Dr. Green forest to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18825	Madam President. Federal Minister Stöger! Her place of business has agreed with the board of pharmacists and doctors on the rules of the Chamber. You should not wisely disturb this peace. But what interests me is: If – and this can be done – it is against the fact that chambers are raised in the constitutional rank, but then so to speak, that chambers in their political activities are not at all affected by the outside at all, not even by the Federal Government and the competent place of business, then this is not quite in keeping with each other. I think you should perhaps be able to philosophise about what the profession of medicine is like for 2 minutes – in my case it is shorter. The majority of doctors work in the employment sector in the hospital sector mentioned by Mr Rasinger. Under 50 percent work on a professional basis, but are largely connected to a contractual partner until retirement and in the word. This is already a slightly restricted freedom because it is subject to certain rules. And you should accept that. I think the health system is known for the division of competence. We have a federal law and nine country laws. Now you should still have an Austrian doctor's chamber, an Austrian pharmacy chamber and each nine state chambers. That doesn't make things any easier. If I am not mistaken, the Ministry of Finance has criticized and has even threatened to reject the law because an A-station would claim for the administration. So the Ministry of Finance, where the Republic of Austria is nesting at an additional A-place savings, I would also have some question marks! Especially if we are now considering what is missing in the cash registers, what the universities lack – as if we were to play an A job, that is a strange view of economy!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18858	Next, Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18879	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! With the amendment of the Medical Law and the Pharmacy Chamber Act, these two legal instruments are now adapted to the constitutional assignment, more precisely: adapted to Article 120b of the Federal Constitution. The assignment of tasks in its own sphere of activity and in the delegated scope of the Chambers' self-management will be more precisely regulated. This is an essential point in distinguishing the scope of the task. It seems important to me that with this change in the legislative instruments, the binding or installation of the law of the Federal Minister of Health in the transferred field of action – it has already been mentioned how important quality assurance is – goes along and the instruction is also made possible in the training of third parties. Despite the necessary creation of planning sites, it must be noted that the retransmission of the costs in the ministry itself is taking place and can therefore also be kept neutral in the ministry. The disappearance of the second instance – that is, the instance of the head of state and the administrative senate – brings with it a substantial savings and relieves the countries. The restriction on enforcement is not attacked here and continues to be maintained. This constitutional guarantee makes another clear commitment to the Austrian self-government: to the self-management of the chambers and thus to the social partners in Austria. Appreciate High House! The people in Austria trust and build on their interests, the chambers. Especially in times like this one has shown that you need strong partners. And the chambers are such strong partners. It is right and important, especially in times like this, to maintain and benefit from good cooperation with chambers which are also constitutionally protected.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18919	Next, Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18940	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Perhaps you will allow me to refer to the previous debate on Amendment No 699/A(E) on Mr List's speech. He said there was a barbarism in the committee. - I have to reject that. We have just pointed out to you, my colleague, and your group, that your request as such does not make any sense. In the present case, it is a small group of doctors who, after reaching the age limit, still have a house apotheque and have returned to the doctor's office. If you want to make a bill here about the system, then the rulers have to make themselves comfortable to do so. This is not a matter of law – therefore, please reject. Point two, on the debates on these two chamber laws: It does not mean the end of the professions, nor does it mean a forced membership. Ladies and gentlemen! We have been confessing to the legal interests for years, they have also worked well since 1945, and these can only be based on a legal membership. I can't tell you if I can do it, I'll go to it, and if it doesn't fit me, I'll go out again. We need legal membership here with all rights and obligations. The Chambers also provide services to their members. It is rather a matter of self-management. All the speakers are right. That's something you need to critically question. I think that's also been checked. In particular, there will be a supervisory right in the future, especially where there are more spending positions. It's worth discussing. This goes without exception only in the transferred scope of action and not in its own scope of action. With regard to the costs: I think the costs indicated are enforceable. We are waiting for savings as such. Whether they are achieved with this – I think, it can be if the supervisory law is strictly exercised accordingly. But what I would like to say on this matter is that I am concerned: It doesn't bother me, but I'm pointing out that according to the Pharmacy Chamber Act in its own field of activity, the professional training of its members should be carried out. Today, the pharmacist has a very central function, in the delivery of drugs, in the consultation, in conversation with citizenship, and I think that I think that I am too weak to transfer technical training to the Chamber. I would say, Minister of State, that it would be a worthwhile task – as in the Medical Law! – to ensure appropriate supervision here, so that we can continue to provide the quality we need to the citizens at all times. That would be just a proposal, otherwise the two proposals, I think, are absolutely acceptable.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e18988	Mr Kößl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19010	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! By amending the Article 120 Federal Constitutional Act – which has already been implemented several times – the Chambers have been raised in constitutional order. This means more rights for the chambers, but also more duties, and I am convinced that there will also be more quality in the final effect. I also think that this new consideration that, in addition to its own scope of action, the transferred scope of action will now be left to the chambers is reasonable. I already believe that it is necessary for the Federal Minister for Health not only to be subject to supervision, but also to have a right of guidance in the area of transferred effect. I think the Chambers would not have agreed to this change of law if it did not also bring an advantage to the Chambers. I don't see how this leads to a bloating of bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19043	No one has made any mention of this. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft. Medical law Novelle and title and entrance in 467 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to do so. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Pharmacy Chamber Act, together with the title and receipt in 465 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the bill. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft at third reading to give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[16:45:11]] 25. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (464, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the IVF Funds Act (IVF Funds Act 2010) (551 d.b.) 26. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 358/A by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law establishing a Fund for the Financing of In vitro Fertilisation (IVF Fund Act) (552 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19131	We now come to the items 25 and 26 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19159	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Now we are discussing the In vitro Fertilisation Fund Act. On the one hand, we have a government template here. We will not give our approval to this government template, which I have already stressed in the Committee, especially because of the passport that women must then necessarily report on the results. I believe that it can be very humiliating for women to report to the fund and have to remember it every time, especially if this attempt has not gone out well. That, I think, is the wrong way. Moreover, in the second request, which is now being negotiated, it has not at all been thought about adapting this law to the current living conditions of the people. We have made a request that women beyond 40. A grant is granted for a year of life. Not only that it has not been incorporated into the government template will it be rejected by you. I think that's the wrong way because we're living at a time when women always have children later on. The age of the first givers is already in the direction of 30. That is to say, the circumstances of women's lives are changing in this area, and there is no respect for them in this matter of law. I think that's very bad, because people's fates are just going over it. On the other hand, Mr Federal Minister, you are one who goes to the media permanently and announces that there will now be a regulation that allows for the “ Pill after” to be delivered freely. I think it's very cynical what you're doing here: On the one hand, they want to issue women's disdainful orders by giving women a drug that massively harms their health by not wanting to allow unborn life, and on the other On the other hand, people who long for a child also have the opportunity to come to a child. I think that is the completely wrong approach and the completely wrong way. I believe, Mr Federal Minister, that you would be well advised to consider what people really want, what people in this country need, what families want and what women want. And if we want to make a law that is for women – and it is especially the women who suffer particularly in these situations – that serves women, then we should consider what they really want. And women want financial support in the event of artificial fertilization! But no woman has an advantage of getting a prescription-free drug that is high-dose, where she does not know where she takes on Saturday in the evening, because maybe something could have happened, with the result that then her hormones get mixed up in the body. And the next week, maybe she'll take it back. These are things that, in my view, are not only massively unresponsible, but above all they are also disdainful of women, because they also impose on women the sole responsibility for contraception.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19207	Mrs Bayr is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19228	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Col., I'm rather afraid your woman's image is contemptuous. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you put women under the “Pille after” once on Saturday in the evening “to swallow like a sugar” and believe that they do so every week and again, then you have a picture of women, which at least does not correspond to a modern woman’s image, to an enlightened woman’s image. [[Abg. New builder: You stand for the headcloth and talk about a modern and enlightened woman's image! That's the height!]] It is quite presumptuous to believe that women are in principle only without responsibility with themselves and their bodies. And the “ Pill after that” is not a drug that kills life – tell yourself there, that would really be no harm! – it still leads to women becoming unresponsive. They're not! When women get into an emergency, I think we're gonna have a damn duty to help them and help them with all kinds of means and not to put them on the prange and treat them like pronouncing. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens]] This is abominable, and it has nothing to do with a modern women's policy at all. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That doesn't make a man! There are the emergency paragraphs! Get some information!]] If you're now pretending it's an extreme burden on women to have to report on a successful IVF, and claim that that's not reasonable for them, then I'm telling you, it's already like women and men are parents and experience birth. The institution that the IVF has made will be in the rarest cases where the birth takes place, and it is absolutely not that there is still a contact afterwards. So I think it must also be reasonable for people who claim that 70 percent of the costs are publicly funded to make this announcement. That won't be a problem. Secondly, the question of age. They have an extension of public support to the 42. Year of life proposed. On the one hand, it's a medical problem. We know very well – and that has not changed in recent years – that success rates in women over 40 in in vitro fertilization are getting massively and rapidly lower. We also know that even if a successful pregnancy occurs, the abortion rate increases extremely. I am not sure whether it is for the couples and specifically for the women to put up with this pressure for two more years. Apart from: They are always the ones who would prefer to kill the borders. I wonder how you argue that then if we increase the age alone... [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not true! Tell yourself! You have no idea!]] We would be there in total isolation compared with our neighbours. The only countries with higher age limits, if they are publicly promoting IVF, are Belgium and France. Germany and Italy, for example, also have a 40-year limit. I'm pretty sure you'd scream right away: Sourry! There are now some strangers coming to Austria and want to be sponsored with our money IVF! If, as you have said in the Committee, you really believe that you can solve this quite simply by linking the funding to an Austrian headquarters, then you have not understood the European Union, with your permission.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19307	Mr President, Mr Spadiut is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19328	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Experience in the implementation of the IVF Act has shown that improvements, clarifications are necessary. There is no reporting obligation on the outcome of the IVF attempts financed by the Fund. The cost factor for medicinal products requires revision. It consists of data protection perspective remedial needs in the IVF register. This amendment is therefore intended to improve and clarify. It is to be welcomed that this will make arrangements regarding the delivery of medicinal products and that the revision of the IVF register will be carried out from a data protection point of view. One can be of a shared opinion about the reporting obligation of the couples. There is certainly no other way to capture success or failure, but what is the purpose of the recording? Only statistical purposes. It will probably have no influence on the success or failure of fertilization. There is no doubt that couples have no problem with reporting a successful IVF. In the event of failure, however, mental stress can very well occur. And whether to purchase these burdens for statistical purposes can be discussed. The additional costs incurred shall be assessed negatively, in particular where the family compensation fund is intended to cover some of these costs. The FLAF is already so heavily burdened that it will soon have reached its limits. We shall vote in favour of Mr Belakovich-Jenewein's request. As women have increased the legitimate desire for education and career, women decide to have children later and later. It is true that, as Mr Rasinger or Mr Bayr said, success with advanced age always It is more difficult to achieve, but it is precisely because of this that one should give the couples the opportunity to take this opportunity to get young people even at a higher age. The conditions attached to the granting of the grant for in vitro fertilisation are such that the increase in the age for eligible persons will not be affected financially. We agree with the request to give older people and older couples the opportunity to meet their children's wishes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19373	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19395	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mrs Belakovich, I am absolutely not your opinion! You are a doctor, I am a doctor, Dr. Spadiut is a veterinarian – we all three believe that biology does not change from today to tomorrow. And if you say you should be women up to 43. I'll tell you from 40. The chance of success is reduced in years of life. At the time, I caused the law, and I am proud of this law, because according to the latest figures, 1,756 children a year are promoted by the fact that they can even come to the world. I think we can be proud of that. The law is a full success. Firstly, it is cheaper for the married couples concerned, and secondly, it is subject to quality control. I think that is very positive, and we should mention that. My dear colleague, your argument is completely wrong! If you repeatedly point out that the women are later on careers, another retirement age or a longer training period, then please have nothing to do with biology! If the leading hormone researchers, gynecologists – no matter what experts advised us there – told us from 40 onwards. Year of life, the rate of success is falling quite rapidly, then we have to take note of that! This is not an ideology question either, but it is quite simply about the question: Is it reasonable to use many public funds? That was a big fight at the time, whether we should do it at all. That's why there's been this 30 percent restraint. The question is: From when is the budget no longer acceptable? That, I admit, is a rough question, but if the experts say it's 40, then it's 40. I can't say as a parliamentarian that I don't care about it, because then I don't need to ask any more experts in the future because they won't be asked anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19431	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19452	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! This is not a simple law, and hospitals with in vitro fertilization contracts are not Robinson clubs. You have to think about the burden on women. The reason that there is such a thing at all is partly strange. The birth rates per couple have fallen from three children to 1.5 in the last 20, 30 years. Some believe that the state was only to animated, here supporting offer therapies because he wants higher birth rates. I would add, however, that there is also personal suffering and mental stress in case of unwanted infertility. That unwanted infertility in Austria is not fully recognized as a medical or psychological disease, I think it is a mistake, because that is the reason why insurances, invoicing, only take over a part and not all costs. 70 percent are paid, the rest not. A fund that has contracts with hospitals comes into play. You have to look at it. These private hospitals boast with success rates per couple of 30 percent and more. These 30 percent and more will not be reached in any public hospital, including specialized university clinics. The question must be allowed: Why is that so? Is this so because there are simply more fertilized eggs implanted here, which then lead in a high percentage to twin births, drilling births and even quadruples births? A study has shown that a high percentage, more than 50 percent, of intensive beds at newborn stations with children, are the result of artificial insemination – multiple births, premature births and so on. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This costs €12 million in intensive treatment, and there are some experts who say that the number of fertilized eggs should be reduced by obligation – a question in which the legislator has taken a step. We want women not to rely, as it were, on this act of grace of this Fund, not to have these restraints, but, if, then, staggered restraints, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] A sentence still to be desired and unwanted births: The Supreme Council of Sanity – at least not one authority in Austria – has classified the “Pille after” as medically safe, in its risk in any case much less than a medical or surgical interruption of a pregnancy. – This should be kept in mind during the debate. I believe that private hospitals as well as public authorities should account for more and provide quality and safety criteria and make them public – at least in relation to the department. That means: We demand that the contractual hospitals that can carry out in vitro fertilization also report and disclose a so-called baby-take home rate, in how many cases there have been real births, and not just refer to an ultrasound image that no second and third person has seen. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This amendment has also been made because the government template states that the patient has the birth to report. Since the man is not a patient in this case and probably did not have to have a birth or surgery performed, this change is also justified.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19571	The amendment tabled and the motion for a resolution are also under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19682	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19703	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a point of order. Mr Rasinger, Mrs Belakovich: I'm not a doctor, but I'm absolutely not your opinion. I do not understand your argument, just as she did not understand Mr Rasinger. If you complain about every IVF request, I tell you that success or failure can only be measured by data. We have discussed this issue in the Data Protection Council and in our opinion we have asked for it precisely because it is a collection of non-personal data, and in the version of the amendment request it has also been complied with. The second criticism that you present – this law is not adapted to people’s living conditions – is to say that this law is adapted to medical knowledge. Women over 40 years of age have problems with IVF requests. They are usually not successful. That is why, Mrs Colleague, we cannot accept your argument. This law is an advanced law. It is in line with international development, and it provides for clarifications which have become necessary in view of experience in particular of the category of persons to be promoted. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the opportunity to thank the officials of the Ministry of Health as chairman of the Data Protection Council. The Data Protection Council, which is sent by all political groups, has a very constructive cooperation. The Ministry of Health receives relevant opinions from us, which are also taken into account. I would like to take the opportunity, Mr Federal Minister, and thank you very much – as the chairman of the Data Protection Council – for your employees. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The same applies to the members of all political groups in the Data Protection Council. We face challenges, and I would also like to thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19752	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19773	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Since January 2000, this co-financing of in vitro production has been regulated by law. With 70 percent, the public hand contributes money when it comes to providing childless parents or couples with support so that they can come to their child. In the years 2000 to 2008, there were 46,155 attempts that were supported. This requires expenditure of the IVF fund amounting to €12 million annually. Not all couples manage to come to children on a natural way. Of course, it is also a challenge for those who make an attempt. It is associated with a psychological stress and means a effort to explain itself ready to be artificial fertilization, but I think it will also become increasingly interesting to learn what results it will eventually produce. In 2008 – at least in the IVF register – a pregnancy rate of 32.5% was recorded. However, if you know that only 10 percent of women over 40 years of age have a pregnancy to expect in artificial fertilization, it is clear that it is all the more difficult to complete artificial fertilization the older the women. It is simply a tricky conclusion that with the increased life expectancy also the Fertility persists longer. It is therefore justified that there is an age limit that women up to 40 years of age and men up to 50 years of age are supported because the funds are as high as possible. It is reasonable, in the form of life planning, for women and men, for couples, to decide on family planning in good time and, of course, to use these experiments in good time. With this law, I think all those couples who have a child's desire are giving the best possible support.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19815	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19837	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. As the last speaker, let me briefly summarize: IVF attempts are funded by the IVF funds with 70 percent. This law is necessary in order to establish a legal basis for this co-financing of the public sector, with 35 percent coming from the family compensation fund and 35 percent from social security funds. The legislative amendment improves the documentation of each IVF fund attempt. The reporting obligation on the results of these tests shall be standardised, the provisions for the reporting register shall be improved according to data protection requirements. The right to benefit is also more clearly regulated here. The delivery of medicinal products in connection with IVF requests is also permitted in this Act to the hospitals of the contract, and not only pharmacies. For data protection reasons, § 7 provides minor improvements which the Data Protection Council – which Mr Maier has already mentioned – suggested in its November meeting. I would like to make it clear here that an increase in the age limit for IVF trials is being rejected by us precisely for medical reasons. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:10]] [[17:10:27]] The vote will be taken at
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e19880	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. vote on the draft IVF-Fonds-Law Novelle 2010 in 551 of the Supplements. Mr Greenewald, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by this amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. MEPs Dr. Grünewald, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment which refers to Z 10 and Z 11 of the draft law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this amendment to be a sign. – The application does not find a majority, is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to it to give a sign. – The request was adopted by a majority. vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those Members who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you are also in third reading for this draft law, I would ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Greenewald, ladies and gentlemen, on the introduction of a social reduction in self-sufficiency in in vitro fertilization. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – The application remains in the minority and is rejected. Vote on the request of the Health Committee to take note of its report 552 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign on this point. – This is accepted by a majority. [[17:12:57]] 27. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (473 e.g._Other Organiser Federal law on products whose import, export and placing on the market is prohibited for animal protection reasons (554 e.g.) 28. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 889/A(E) by Mr Dietmar Keck, Mr Franz Eßl, Mr Bernhard Vock, Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, Dr Wolfgang Spadiut, colleagues on improvements to EU animal welfare standards in general and measures to protect animals in transport in particular, Question No 148/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues on the improvement of EU animal protection standards and the Amendment No 472/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues on measures to protect animals during transport (555 d.b.) 29. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 813/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues on the implementation of the recommendations of the Animal Protection Council on the training of dogs (556 d.b.) 30. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 862/A(E) by Dr Wolfgang Spadiut, colleagues on the control of illegal animal transport at the old border crossings (557 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20053	We are now discussing points 27 to 30 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Vock is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20081	High house! A good day for animal protection. Finally, the government parties are ready to discuss animal welfare, and finally the ÖVP is ready to move. Perhaps we can also soon discuss raising animal welfare to the constitutional level. There was already an all-party union in 2004, which sleeps to this day. The decision-making of this government template is intended to implement EU regulations, implement certain prohibitions on trade. Although I am an economic operator against the prohibitions of free trade, since these prohibitions serve to protect against animal torture, we are in favour of them; they are useful. I am particularly pleased with the five-party proposal of the animal protection spokespersons. The aim is to install the Austrian Animal Protection Act as a model for the EU. Above all, the Eastern European countries have enormous demands, but also Denmark, for example, with the Grindwalfing, which offers a cruel spectacle every year. We cannot implement the recommendation of the Animal Protection Council because of the problem that there is still no professional image of a dog trainer, we cannot understand. Why can't you just decide, why can't you carry that? At present, anyone who feels called can run a dog school. I can only say from my own experience – I also have a dog – that you don't have to hit a dog to raise it, you can also bring it with rewards and treats to behave positively. [[Abg. Grosz: And how about the treats?]] For the control of illegal animal transport at the old border crossings: The BZÖ proposal would, in principle, be worthy of discussion, and I do not understand why we simply want to turn this request off, why we simply say that this is not the case with the border crossings. I think I understand the intention of the application, I think it takes more strict compliance with the § 40 Animal Protection Act. There is already the possibility that we seized the animals out of smuggling, there is already the possibility that we will seize the vehicles so that the transporter, the truck driver or perhaps even the owner will have to go home on foot. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I think that if that were the case, you would react quickly, and it would change a lot in smuggling. I've said it before: In the case of cigarette smuggling, it is obvious that the goods and partly also the vehicles are confiscated. – What applies to cigarette smuggling must also apply to animal welfare!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20121	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20143	Mr President. Minister! The value of a society, ladies and gentlemen, is recognized by the way it deals with its animals! That said Mahatma Gandhi a very long time ago. – If you use this, then Austria is in this scale of values at the top. Austria has the best European animal welfare law, Austria has the best European animal transport law. If you put the whole thing on Europe or the European Union, then the European Union would be down on this scale. I am really pleased that I have been able to make this five-party request with the animal protection speakers of all the parties here in Parliament, which includes improvements to animal welfare standards in general and measures to protect animals in transport in particular. It is important that this proposal really contains points that have been included in our Austrian legislation for a very long time. It is about the immediate implementation of a general ban on imports of seal skins and seal products in all Member States. Today, we will decide what we demand from the EU, and are thus the first Member State of the European Union to implement this measure. It is about animal transport that Europe-wide animal transport must not last more than eight hours and only, in exceptional cases, take a maximum of 12 hours. It is about the introduction of an EU-wide mandatory test and approval procedure for stables and pet accessories in order to give animal owners safety. It is about a designation of origin of European and regional products that comply with EU-wide minimum animal welfare standards within the meaning of a high European minimum standard. This is an EU-wide ban on dog, bull and cock fighting. It's about the ban on the attitude of wild animals in circuses, and, and, and. We have really dealt with many points in this proposal, which seem to be important to us. I would like once again to thank Mr Vock von der FPÖ, Mr Brunner of the Greens, Mr Spadiut of the BZÖ and, in particular, Mr Eßl of the ÖVP for having made this request in this unanimity. I repeat in plenary what I said in committee: I think it will be important for the future that we, as far as animal welfare is concerned, make up parties across the board and really discuss measures to protect the animals intensively and abandon party polemics. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the other proposals that we are still dealing with under these agendas, first of all to implement the recommendations of the Council of Animals on the training of dogs. I am very surprised that the Animal Protection Council always makes proposals when the measures are already being dealt with in the ministry. I mean, you should really think about what the work of the Animal Protection Council has to look like in order not to always have to realize that the Animal Protection Council is always three steps behind the work of the animal protection spokespersons and the ministries. There is already a working group in the ministry with many experts dealing with the training of dogs and at the same time trying to create a so-called professional image for dog trainers. I think that the Ministry – with our Minister Stöger at the top – is on the right track in this regard, as a truly animal protection compliant, dog-compliant and also for the trainers to work out the right paper. On the request of Mr Spadiut and Mr Grosz concerning the control of illegal animal transport at the old border crossings: We have the problem that illegal animals transports – in the case of dog puppies – usually take place in the trunk of cars, so that the animals are smuggled across the border. As border controls do not help because every passenger car has to be stopped. I'm also making the offer here again – I've already said this the last time –: If we sit together, we advise on this in the Committee on the Interior, which is responsible for it, we see that we can take a measure by which we can seize the vehicles of these people who smuggle animals illegally in the trunk of their private car. Then many will be careful to drive through Austria with smuggled animals. That would be a measure we could put in place. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Riepl.]] Again: I am glad that an important and great step is taking today in the protection of animals.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20225	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20246	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The application concerning the Federal Law on Products whose import and export is prohibited and the placing on the market for animal protection reasons can only be accepted in order to prevent the senseless suffering of human beings being added out of pure vanity. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is very positive that the five-party request has been made. It is high time for uniform animal welfare directives to be established in the EU. In many EU countries, animal welfare is still subject to abuses that are not worthy of a civilised country. I see it as a duty for the competent members of the government to make every effort to implement this request in the EU. On my request on illegal animal transport: We know that Austria is a transit country for illegal animal transport. Every year thousands of dog and cat cubs are transported across Austria. As Mr Keck has already said, it is certainly difficult to hold these transports, especially because these controls are only carried out on transit routes. The objection that illegal transport at border crossings cannot be controlled is not entirely valid. I very much agree with the control body to be able to see whether this is a possible animal transport. In addition to these controls, other measures should also be taken, such as a ban on the sale of dog and cat dolls in animal trafficking. I have already tabled this request, but it is repeatedly postponed by the government parties, which is why it cannot be discussed and voted on. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would now like to take one step further and make the request to control all the transport of live animals on the old border crossings and Austrian federal roads. There are transport criteria that must be met. Police and the respective animal welfare control body are available for the control of these transports. However, these organs are on the transit routes for hours without being able to control even one animal transport because one-way no one passes by. They're wasteful resources. It is more useful to carry out these checks at the old border crossings in a sample manner. As a result, efficiency would be much greater. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I therefore make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20347	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20402	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20423	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already said that animal protection is important and that we are at the top of this scale of values. I have to say that there are also priorities for me. As Mr Vock said today that animal welfare should be included in the Constitution, I must say that there is another priority for me in this regard: Let's try it with the children's rights today! Let's see if these are worth so much to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] For me, people are definitely still in front of the animals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, it is important that we commit ourselves to a practical animal protection – that is what we do in Austria. We are taking an important step in this direction with today's law, namely the Federal Law on Products, the Import and Export of which is prohibited and the placing on the market for animal welfare reasons. It is about control powers, and also about the fact that the Federal Minister has to report to the National Council and that simplified enforcement is possible. We want an effective implementation of the direct application of the EU Regulation, and we want synergies, greater efficiency and cost savings in this area and the implementation of controls. It has also been mentioned by the previous speakers that we have prepared and negotiated a comprehensive resolution calling for an improvement of EU animal protection standards. I believe that this motion for a resolution contains many points which are important for implementation. It is important that uniform animal welfare standards are established across Europe. In particular, farmers often have cost disadvantages when different standards are required in Europe, and we should counter this. Unfortunately, the speaking time is too short to list all the points that are important and which should be discussed here. To sum up, I can say: The ÖVP wants the animals to be fine, and the ÖVP wants a practical animal protection, with which the animal owners can also identify. Today's motion for a resolution is a good basis for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20476	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20497	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! This is the second time we have been able to talk about animal welfare here in the House, and I am pleased. Now a little movement is slowly coming into the animal protection debate. But I hope it'll be a little more next year. I would like to focus briefly on the government template, which is an implementing regulation for an EU regulation, namely a ban on the import and export of dog and cat skins. I find this very encouraging because dog and cat skins have been imported into Europe for years, especially from Asia. The implementation of this directive is a great success for animal welfare, but it also provides consumer safety, so that one does not inadvertently buy a fur that one might not want to buy. However, the implementation in Austria has slowed down a little. The regulation entered into force a year ago, and we are not implementing it until now. I would like to see us doing a little more quickly in the area of animal welfare in Austria. I would also like us to look at this also for other fur species, not only for dog and cat skins, because the import of any fur species is not necessarily necessary. I now come to our joint request for improvements to the EU animal welfare standards and would like to begin by thanking all the animal protection speakers, colleagues from the other parties for their good cooperation and for the constructive discussions. This is particularly pleasing for us, because it also enables two of our proposals, namely, on the one hand, to improve the EU animal welfare standards and, on the other hand, to improve the protection of animals in transport, to be completed and implemented. Many of our points have been recorded, and I am particularly pleased about that. Mr Keck has already mentioned a few points, I would like to mention a few more, because there are really many, for example, the prohibition of the rearing and posture of laying hens in cages, the rejection of the so-called conventional cages planned in the EU, the reduction of animal testing and the prohibition of animal testing of apes, but above all more awareness of animal welfare – animal welfare should go to school. There is indeed the “Animal Protection Makes School” project in Austria, and this request also includes the fact that it should continue to spread at European level and become standard. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think it is very positive that we agreed to call for common improved animal welfare standards at EU level. Mr Minister, I think you will be given a good job with this decision, and I expect you to do so in the EU. However, I also wish that we not only make demands on the EU, but also, above all, in Austria, on animal welfare. I am thinking, for example, of pig farming, of animal torture methods which are still being used in Austria. [[Abg. Hagen: Shock!]] The training of dogs has already been addressed. I do not quite understand why the request could not be accepted. If it's already planned in the ministry, you could have just agreed. It has already been mentioned that animal welfare should finally be included in the Constitution. We just have to get that over the next year. Mr Eßl is not all right to play out animal welfare against children's rights here. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Vock.]] So far, you have always treated these two issues equally by relinquishing them in the committees. Now, finally, you're going to have children's rights, but you're very few. I say quite clearly: We want all children's rights to be included in the Constitution. And we also want animal welfare to be raised in the constitutional order. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My appeal would be that we continue to focus on animal welfare next year, continue working together on it. By the way, I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20554	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20575	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is nice that at least in the field of animal welfare all parties can work together so constructively here. Joint efforts also bring success – and these efforts will also arrive at our guests. I would like to welcome our guests from Carinthia, friends of Mr Obernosterer. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very high level of animal welfare in Austria. There is no more hen sitting in the cage in Austria. But in the EU it does not look so good, much animal suffering is imported. And that is why we urge the EU to adopt our higher Austrian standards. There is an urgent need for action, I believe, in the field of animal testing – Mr Brunner has already mentioned it. For cosmetic creams, shampoos, detergents, cleaning agents, numerous animal tests are carried out; sometimes these are prescribed, but often they would be avoidable. It is necessary to develop further non-animal testing procedures. That is, we demand clear targets for reducing animal testing. Let's put on a "Vision Zero": no animal tests, no animal suffering. That is the objective, we want to put pressure on this in the EU together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20614	Mr Stöger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20636	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Life and living is a very important principle, especially in the field of animal welfare. I think that we are in line with today's law of the role of Austria, to be pioneers in Europe, and to contribute to the prohibition and prohibition of products derived from animals in Austria for animal welfare reasons. I thank you for making this clear contribution to animal welfare – and this is the first thing in Europe. I would like to thank you for the five-party proposal because it makes it clear that animal welfare is very, very important for this Parliament and that it is also ready to put in place measures for animal welfare which also work in practice. I allow myself to announce to you that we have been able to deal with a subject that has long occupied us in the field of animal welfare today. Today we signed – the country of Lower Austria, the municipality of Gänserndorf, the federal government and the good of AIDS – as we want to deal with the chimpanzees from Gänserndorf in the future. That's what we've regulated today. So this is a good day for the animals. An agreement has been reached and we can make an important contribution to animal welfare.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20681	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft federal law on products whose import, export and placing on the market is prohibited for animal welfare reasons, including the title and entry into 473 of the supplements. If you are in favour of this draft, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would also ask for your approval in third reading. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 555 of the Supplements. If you stand for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 69.) We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 556 of the supplements. I'm asking for your conciliatory sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report of 557 supplements. I ask you to accept your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Spadiut, ladies and gentlemen, on the checks on the transport of live animals at the old border crossings and federal roads. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The application does not find a majority. Rejected. [[17:38:26]] 31. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (476, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civilian's Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the Construction Workers' Bad Weather Compensation Act 1957, the Special Support Act, the Carenz Fee Act, the Workers' Chamber Act 1992, the Industrial Workers' and Self-Employed Pensions Act, the Federal Carriers' Money Act and the War Arbitration Act (4. Social law amendment law 2009 – 4. SCREEN 2009) (541 d.a.) 32. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the War Victim Care Act 1957, the Sacrifice Care Act, the Military Care Act, the Vaccination Act and the Crime Sacrifice Act (544 d.b.) 33. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Insolvency Reimbursement Act (543 d.b.) 34. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (542 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20803	We are now discussing points 31 to 34 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Karlsböck. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20831	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In fact, social law amendment law should only have been the legal implementation of the cash recovery plan negotiated in June or May. In itself, the debate, i.e. the whole debate about this cash recovery concept, was under a good star. It was, as you can hear, very consensually negotiated there. Everyone was happy. They obviously praised the good, yes excellent culture of conversation after the fiasco of the first start, which the government failed to do, among other things. One wanted to make it better this time, and the law or at least the Social Rights Amendment Act Novelle, which should then have come out, should have been awakened here without great apprehension. But in the light of all these social law amendments, I have seen that there is an essential point missing, namely the GmbH. The GmbH is not only so important because it is now being negotiated for over 30 years, the doctors want the vehement and there are fixed and finished concepts, but also because it is also about a certain culture of dealing with each other. This is shown by the procedure around this medical GmbH law. Why? – In fact, it was agreed in the context of the negotiations that it was agreed and settled, with many compromises received by the medical board, that this doctor's GmbH was coming. She's missing. And the question is why she's missing. – It is striking that all those who are involved with this doctor’s GmbH emphasize how much they are for it. We have also discussed this in the Committee. And after the Committee, we were able to draw up a communication from the SPÖ that the Minister and the whole SPÖ club are all in favour, but it is still important to mention and clarify some points. This is about the fact that first of all there must be consensus between the negotiators that social security rights must be clarified and that, third, European law compatibility must be established. Finally, last week the national conference of the Heads of State or Government also spoke. This too says that she wants a place at the negotiating table – as I mean, clearly too late. I'm even wondering why you're now, a three-four- It's too late for a year, it's what you'd like to rehearse. A contract that is concluded, an agreement that was signed with handshake, letter and seal to break with windy arguments, I simply don't think acceptable and not how to deal with a profession for more than 30 years. In contrast, our group will be able to sit down. We hope, Minister, that at least now what is announced here is that discussions are being held quickly does not mean that they are decades.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20879	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20900	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== The Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection as well as the Federal Ministry of Health have been addressed by the Social Rights Amendment Act. These are materials from both Federal Ministries. In my speech, I will limit myself to provisions coming from the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, and to two of them. One is the increase in pensions, and the second is prevention against the abuse of compensation allowances. Pensions up to €2 466 per month will be increased by 1.5 per cent in 2010. For above pensions there is a fixed amount of almost 37 €. In addition, low pensioners will receive a single payment. This means that in the area of statutory pension insurance, this adjustment of 1.5 percent represents a volume of €421 million and in the field of officials a volume of €86.8 million and the one-time payment for pensioners below €1 300 million additional €35 million. As part of this increase in pensions, particular attention has been paid to low pensioners, thus ensuring the purchasing power of the older generation in Austria. The second point concerns a preventive measure relating to the misuse of compensation allowances. We have been alerted by experts and experts from the Pension Insurance Agency to the fact that – I refer to them as a smart lawyer – they have discovered a law gap, according to which pensioners who receive a pension within the framework of the European Union, if they take a so-called "fine" stay here in Austria, can also obtain the compensation allowance here. In this proposal, we have now ensured that, if there is a legitimate doubt that the residence of persons in Austria is not their usual residence, the pension insurance institution can account for these persons in the context of a special administrative procedure itself. They must then prove that their actual stay is in Austria. In addition, the pension insurance institution can also choose a form of cash payment to ensure that people actually live in the country, have the actual food point in Austria in order to prevent abuse. On this occasion, I would like to thank the employees of the pension insurance institutions very much for their work, because they guarantee that the legal changes we make will also be felt in the wallet of pensioners. I would also like to thank all the other employees in the social security scheme because they ensure that people who are concerned, whether it be pension or a pension. I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20943	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e20964	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! A lot is packed in this government template. This goes from the rescue package for the cash registers of about €600 million to the one-time payments for pensions and to the fight against abuse. So a very comprehensive, a very important law, a government template where it pays off that you deal with it a little bit more precisely. The coalition will certainly see this part of this package in the field of health as an important step towards health reform. We from BZÖ see nothing but a rescue package for cash registers, a debt debt for health insurance companies that have managed differently. We do not see here any implementation of a comprehensive health reform. Although it is stated that a cost reduction of €1.7 billion is to be implemented by 2013, where these measures are implemented, what measures are to be taken and where specific savings are to be made, this remains open here. There is also a lack of the precautionary area, precautionary programmes. It has already been addressed in a different context: Prevention does not matter at all in this future health reform. The hospital area was left out. A potential is not even remembered, namely that one finally begins to do something in the area of 22 social security institutions, to merge, to simplify and to save money there.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21000	Mr Colleague, please do not film in the documents! Please, Mrs. Colleague, continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21019	So, as I said, it is a financial syringe for health insurance companies without clear guidelines, as the future health reform looks like. I would like to point out two things. An example has already been given by Mr Csörgits, namely the misuse of pensions. I am very glad to note that one not only admits that there are abuse cases, but that one also sees how one can act. For, ladies and gentlemen, it must not be possible for people who are pensioning in another country and who perhaps live with us temporarily to receive a compensation allowance with us. We lack the money for our pensioners in some areas, but it is mistreated by these people. We therefore support this point. We will also proceed very differently in the vote. We support this area, because this is what we really have to put forward and ensure that social benefits come where they are needed, and not where they want some, especially from abroad. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A second area, which we believe is too halfhearted, is the control of the identity of patients. I remember the discussions here in House, also on the BZÖ application, to provide the e-card with a photo of light, because it also comes to misuses. This has always been rejected by the government, with the remark that this is not a problem. Now you should have recognized this problem and at least in case of doubt control the identity. This is too little for us, too half-hearted and, of course, administratively a very, very great effort. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] As has been said, we will not agree to this cash recovery package as a whole, but we will also agree to the single payment for the beneficiaries of the smallest pensions in individual areas that I have already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21076	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21097	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== Social law amendment law is the first part of the cash recovery package. You have to emphasize this here. The content was negotiated between the main association, the medical board and the health ministry. These are essentially long-term measures to manage expenditure and reduce costs in the contractual partner area. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we ensure our very good health system also for the future. It will be in foreseeable time, and I really want to say that here, the 5. Social law amendment law or the next social law amendment law follow because there is not the entire negotiated package. The remaining points, including the doctors' GmbH or the contract announcement, will still come. This is agreed between the system partners and is also promised fixed. And we Members will ensure that this package is fully implemented here in the House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are also some other important points under negotiation or decided on by this law. That is why it has also been dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs, because it would actually be a health matter. It has already been pointed out. However, I would also like to draw one point out of the government's proposal, namely the passus, by which abuse in the AZ reference – i.e. in the context of compensation – is restricted or more prevented. It has already been pointed out that there are EU citizens with a very low pension from their country of origin. There is now a clarification where the focus of the life interest is. In particular, in the event of a reasonable doubt about the normal residence in the home of the insurance companies, it is authorised to switch to cash payment in order to act in such a preventive way as to prevent abuse. The 2010 pension adjustment – certainly an important point. Above all, the single payment is regulated up to €1 300. The 1.5 per cent increase has been made by the Federal Minister by regulation. It is essential from our point of view that those pensioners whose pension is just above the compensatory allowance rate receive an additional recognition, because there is really the case that this pension has come from their own contributions. However, these pensioners do not have any exemption from fees, such as those of the broadcasting fee, i.e. for the ORF, or prescription fee. In other words, we welcome it out... It is proper that consideration has been given to this area in particular and that these pensions have been adapted. One last point, ladies and gentlemen, which I would like to address in the field of pensions, is that we have agreed on social retirement up to €2 466 by the year 2010: I think we should think about how we will do this in the future in the case of pension adjustments, because this is essentially 42 000 pensioners, whose pension is above this € 2 466, and this is an additional cost of € 1.4 million per year. So this is to be re-examined and renegotiated anyway, but I think that could be done differently here. My last point: An electronic application for unemployment benefit will be made possible. This is also included in this package and is a simplification within the meaning of those concerned precisely in times like this. I think there's a good package in total, and I'm looking for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21155	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21176	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I might want to take something out of the extensive package and comment on the pensions. It has been put in a lot, but I believe that the pension issue is a very, very important one given the general development of poverty in this country. Unfortunately, there is an undisputed fact that in recent years this federal government – which simply shows the appearance and shows our experiences we have – does not mean it particularly well with the pensioners. Unfortunately, we have been tested, I would like to say. Whenever it comes to a fair increase in pensions, when it comes to defining the proportion that the older generation should receive in the wealth acquired, the ghost of infinancing is painted on the wall. And if it is not the politicians themselves who do this, then it is guaranteed that some expert in their soldier will find himself who heats up the generations against each other and despairs of infinancing, where one would actually have to look, when one is reasonable about these things, whether the money in other areas will not be completely thrown out of the window. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We ask ourselves again and again, ladies and gentlemen, why actually the pensioners of SPÖ and ÖVP are riding around on the pensioner price index, which is a useful and specially created instrument for themselves, precisely tailored to the group of persons and to their needs. Why are you constantly riding on this pensioner price index in the run-up to the pensioner's increase, then consistently ignoring him on every occasion where one can implement him? In this case I would recommend: Leave this instrument away, don't plant the pensioners, let's abandon the pensioner price index! That would be at least the honest way, instead of every time pretending to be the measure on which you want to be measured, even though you then deliberately come to the table. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But probably this is your contribution to a wide-ranging debate on justice, which you are so happy to hold, in all possible suitable but also in all possible inappropriate places. I'm just referring to the topic of transfer account here. You know, 1.5 percent plus, plus this system of one-off payments, where you know exactly, from which there is no legal claim, which, in our view, is no contribution to increasing social justice. It is not really a useful contribution to preventing a group's poverty where, I believe, all of us here agree that it cannot do anything at all for these developments that we are currently facing. So if someone can't do anything for these economic abuses at all, for this banking crisis and for everything that comes after that, then it's the pensioners. It is therefore not to be seen why pensioners have to pay a large part of the burden, simply because they always say the money for it is not there to increase their pension properly. – This is the one point being saved. On the other hand, it is about continuing to secure privileges. I am thinking of the generous civil service law in the red and black federal states, where tens of millions are thrown out of the window each year and where the transitional rules are so generous that we will probably not even experience the entry into force of these transitional arrangements – in contrast to the hacker regime, where everything then has to go off. So here you throw the money out of the window, as well as at the ÖBB, where people with just over 50 mints and with beautiful references march into the pension. Ladies and gentlemen, I found – and if we already have the Minister there, I would also like to confront him with this – a statement from you in an interview in the “Kurier” where you told us very brightly about the future of the pension system. I should like to remind you that in the trade union series, we have tried to create a better pension fund for the trade union members and for the employees, and that we have actually gone down there with the system that we wanted to finance on the capital market, and those who have been called to do so have saved the trade union, so to speak, by their abandonment. In addition, you have always heard that this with the capital market is irresponsible and irresponsible and that the future lies in the charging process. In principle, I give you absolutely right, but then you have to listen to how you see the charging procedure in the future. You say in the “Kurier”: The system is not in question. – The charging system, I give you the right; but now it comes –: The amount of pension will change. If you want more than the security of existence, that's what a socialist says! – private provision. Well, that's great! [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] That is, we landed back where we actually wanted to go, and probably it is this generous one-time strike with which now the ah!, so rich grandparents have to pay the private pension provision of the anchors – for otherwise this will not work. There are not so many people in this country who would need this private pension provision because otherwise they get so little out under the line that it is too little to live and too much to die. And those who need it are those who cannot afford private provision. This is a "beautiful" social and pension policy from a SPÖ minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21238	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21261	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr Kickl, you would have been very good at the beginning. With pleasure I heard the first sentences: There, experts from the hat were enchanted to raise young against old. Only you have forgotten, unfortunately, to say who enchanted these experts from the hat: In recent years, this has usually been the FPÖ Social Ministers. And now I know that you don't want to be at the FPÖ that was in the government at the time – be it. They also have other methods. Perhaps it's less about young-to-old intrusion with you, but domestics against foreigners, that's already a proven means by which you could obviously befriend yourself for a fee in recent years. We say: Hetze, whether it is young against old or foreigners against foreigners, is an inappropriate and unproachable means in politics – and should it also be from your side, ladies and gentlemen, too. But now on the real topic. Point 1: Pensions. I have always been among those who have considered the pensioner price index rather with skepticism, suspicion or rejection. And I also say to you once again the reason – not to the address of the liberals, but to all those who spoke the word of the Pensionist Price Index: The pensioner price index does not help those with low pensions any more than those with low incomes help a normal inflation index. Let's say it quite openly: We still have a problem with low pensions, we have no problem with high pensions. I do not see why high pensioners – partly much higher than the ASVG maximum pension – should still have a right to a pensioner price index from public funds. If Mr Blecha and Mr Khol raise the demand for a pensioner price index, I understand: These are both references to high pensions. And you want to participate in the application of a pensioner price index? I'm telling you the other position: We would have liked to have liked it, although we now agree to the increase in the pension system, that first of all in the area of social security pensions – and I am saving Mr Aubauer the pain of voting against a request that calls for exactly that – the adjustment of value in the area of ASVG or social security pensions is guaranteed, up to the highest ASVG-pension – which is still not so high – but you do not participate! There you go. They have not been involved in recent years or have repeatedly found reasons why there is no guarantee of value within the ASVG or social security pension system. And since, Mrs Aubauer, Black-Blue was a negative example, because in recent years the boundaries have been drawn at random, where the pension increase can be ended, or how many stages there are. That was unbearable! In the meantime, one has at least agreed on something one believes can also use it for more years. Nevertheless: We want value assurance. However, above all, we want to see the minimum pension of the poverty threshold reached in the case of real-life insurance, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger on the adjustment of the compensatory allowance rate in accordance with § 293 of the ASVG and the poverty risk threshold: The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Ministers for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection and for Finance, is invited to submit to the National Council a legislative proposal to gradually raise the ASVG compensatory allowance rate to the poverty risk threshold raised by Statistics Austria in the context of EU-SILC by 2013. I just see, there are spelling errors in there. I ask you to apologise, this does not interfere with the meaning of the request. And now I come to the second topic: Health. You know, Minister, we agree with what you are presenting, but I say to you openly: That's not how it goes! And this is addressed not only to the two government parties but, of course, primarily to the address of the ÖVP. But my colleague, Mr Haubner, has also given me a key word. One thing is clear, and that is between us undisputed – I say something to you, Mrs Haubner: That with this package a cash recovery cannot be achieved! The checkouts remain – you can turn it and turn it around as you want – on a significant debt mountain. 1 billion € remains the checkouts! [[Abg. Donabauer: What can the ÖVP do for it, dear man?]] Because you, Mr Donabauer, and your party are most opposed to the fact that necessary adjustments can be made or revenue for health insurance can be achieved! [[Abg. Donabauer: This is your opinion!]] Let me give you examples: I do not see why private hospitals are financed from the social security funds! You have introduced that, which will be extended and without adding the eyelash, although the number of private hospitals has fallen. Why not stop, why not reduce this contribution? [[Abg. Donabauer: Because good work is done!]] 93 million €! I do not see why the health insurance companies have to pay a fee for the national health platform amounting to € 83 million. I do not see why I believe that the social security contributions provide funding for an unnecessary structure and their wish-for-projects. I do not see – and I am now in what Mrs Haubner has said, and therefore almost at the end – why there is no health insurance contribution for pension funds coming from abroad. There is now a control system for compensation allowances, where pension shares from abroad are involved. I tell you – although we are for this –: Well, it's not that, in the event of reasonable doubt, the affected must prove that he is innocent. We might have found a more elegant solution. But apart from that: Let us come to the question of financing. It would have been wonderful if one had said on this occasion: Yes, a health insurance contribution must also be paid for pension shares coming from abroad. – I do not see why someone who receives a pension from abroad for me to remain on the basis of the compensation allowance, is still doubled by the compensation allowance and only paid a health insurance contribution from this difference, of this 170 €, because the contribution from abroad is free of health insurance. That's absurd! This could result in € 30 to 40 million per year. That would be important. – By the way, I do not understand that private pension funds are not subject to health insurance, although this is a significant part of some of them. We need to discuss this! To an increasing extent, private financing will increase, and this will be the case with another problem that we are discussing on a different occasion. But now I will tell you again, Minister of State: Make yourself more courageous when implementing reforms! As we have now decided, this is not a discharge. So it is not really a contribution to the reform of health insurance.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21363	Mr Stöger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21385	Mr President. Dear colleague dog-tores! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! ==References== We are able to give the social health insurance and self-management instruments in the social health insurance system, with which they can operate economically on the one hand, and on the second, we are able to offer the right services in the right place. We have introduced dynamic job planning. In the future, job planning will only be as possible if the cash registers want to write out a new job that needs to be agreed. If this is not agreeable, no body can be decriminalized, so there are more needs-orientated adjustments. Furthermore, we have introduced an investment settlement, i.e. if a cash office is no longer re-occupied, we have an instrument to be able to act, which means that we have the right supply in the right place. These instruments must be used – and they will certainly be used by the health insurance companies. On the topic of e-card in hospitals. The e-card is the central instrument for the access of insurance services, and thus the control has been significantly improved. To anchor the economic bid, which, as I mean, is the most decisive. The doctors were willing to take responsibility for the overall financing of the health system, and they also took responsibility for how follow-up costs are handled, so an important step. An age limit in relation to the contracting parties was introduced, and a criteria catalogue for fees negotiations was also agreed by agreement, and this makes me hopeful to even expand savings potential and to make the whole system even more efficient. Self-managed health systems in Europe are best able to perform good performance on the one hand and, on the other, to do well with the financial resources made available to them. Our social system has been greatly strengthened by self-management. It is still important to note: Social health insurance has not put funds in the sand, yet we have made it clear that assets are to be carried out in such a way that there are no risky forms of investment that we have responded to the real situation. I think this is an important step towards further development of the Austrian health system.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21455	The motion for a resolution previously tabled by Mr Oellinger is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21577	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21599	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. Health Minister, you said that the benefits were now through the 4. Social law amendment law adapted more economically to the needs, it was implemented a lot, and you also said that self-management should be further expanded. Mr Federal Minister, if this is now all ‘adapted’, as you said: What has been done so far? Didn't that be all right? Didn't all of this fit? And: Why do you react only now? I think that the system is generally reversed, because there is only a doctrine; the ASVG already has the Was-white-I-howalte-Novelle, all cross-references and so on, where no one really knows each other. It belongs to a re-codification of the ASVG – and that must then be implemented. Yeah, for example, I'm going to consider what the pension system's about to do to pay for it. And since Mr Kickl spoke earlier about the fact that you, Mr Minister, said that we are coming to a public pension, the high pensions are being brought down, so to speak, and the other has to be done through the capital cover market. I can only say: We have always been familiar with this three-pillar model, but the first pillar, the pay system, the state pension must be so high that everyone who earns little in working life finds the outing – and that everyone who deserves more can rely on the second and third pillars. That's how it must be! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] In Austria, however, we still have the system that people who earn very much in working life also receive a large state pension – through the payment process. And this belongs to repairs, for example as regards the employees of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, as well as those of the Austrian Bundesbahnen and even in all the institutions, where this is the same case. There's once a clean house, Mr. Federal Minister! This has to be adjusted once! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My colleague Ursula Haubner has already mentioned that this bill does not take into account that the implementation of a health reform has essentially been avoided, as have other important things. As far as pension increases are concerned, I can only say: There we go, because it can't be that the pensions that pay those who maintain the system, who work and who, whether self-employed or self-employed, receive a lower wage increase than those who are in retirement, and that with the “argument”: Pensionist price index! I can't even hear that word anymore! I can't hear that anymore! Because then the driver comes and wants to have a special driver index, the disabled wants to have a disability index that may have a youth index, and so on. – So: Either there is a cost of living index or there is no one – that is so simple! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If the wage increase is only 1.49 percent, then the 1.5 percent of pension increases are also justified. At the time, we have introduced the system that pensions have only been increased to half the maximum basis, but above that the amount that comes out will be increased with a base amount – whatever you have done now. We'll find that all right, that's right. I would like to say to Mr Öllinger: In our time, under black/blue, later under black/orange, the so-called minimum pension in Austria is correct: the compensation allowance has been increased by more than a third, both for single and for families. – This should therefore be taken into account now. As far as the present social law amendment laws are concerned, we have called for separate voting. And I can only say, as far as insolvency allowance payments are concerned: Funding for the training of young people in the budget cannot be used for purposes. We're not with that! As far as electronic assertion of the right to unemployment benefit is concerned, we find this to be positive, because this has previously provided access to the AMS and the people can be communicated earlier. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21693	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21714	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since Mr Stöger has already presented the changes in the law, I now have time to address the comments made by previous speakers. Mr Dolinschek, on your statements concerning various indices. I can only say: Let's take a look at Carinthia! 3 million € distributed durch from the handcuff! Have you ever learned that there are means of transfers that people are not bitters?- Oh, my God! So because of index payments and so on, I would be a bit more careful in your place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: You really have a Carinthian complex!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Mr Kickl has already left the house with his colleague Fichtenbauer; at least one of them already had hat and umbrella in hand, but perhaps you can align them: I almost got the tears from Kickl's troubling statements about the poor pensioners and how terrible we were dealing with them. I remember a situation from 2003; on that day it was a terrible event, just like today, but 300 000 people were on the street, and at that time it was about a pension reform that had incubated us black/blue – at the time blue was actually blue. What was it then? – There were higher fees, there were significantly longer throughput times, and there was a higher retirement age. The best thing at all was that people had to finish the excess they had in the years before. In other words, for two years they have simply not been raised pensions and just said: You've had a good time anyway, and that's what you're working out! – To say that this federal government does not look at the pensioners, I really think this is a forget of the story in which you were not indifferent. [[Abg. Neubauer: That's why they retire in Vienna with 51!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Think about the future, Mrs. Colleague!]] I have already told Mr Karlsböck – in the Committee we have already talked about this at the time – that there is no question for us that the medical authorities should come, that there will still be legal clarification in various areas, and that, as I have said, there must be a consensus among the negotiating partners. Col. Karlsböck is the doctor of the FPÖ, he is safe in consensus with himself. The doctor's chamber, I believe, is not entirely in consensus with itself, because if you look at what is being discussed now, at least in the Vienna Chamber of Physicians, between the two Curias, namely those of the employed and the established doctors, then this shows that the doctor's chamber still needs a clear discussion within itself, especially on the question of the medical authorities and this solution. So far, it has been a question of the OEC, and because of its own liability each individual was not so attractive to bring himself into a group practice or into a GesmbH. Now, with the hopefully coming GesmbH solution, it will be easier for the young employees and colleagues who want to go to a cashier's contract due to a job loss in the hospital, to fear nothing more than to be used in principle as a small partner with a lot of work to do the work, which then holds a large GesmbH holder somewhere. I think there is still a need for discussion. I am firmly convinced that this will be used in order to achieve the whole of a meaningful solution, both in the sense of European law and in the sense of social security law and in the sense of a singleness of medicine. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21801	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21823	Mr President. Mr. Minister! On behalf of the Liberal Party, I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, even in the event that I am now devoting myself the reputation of having to be social – because this was the division that the industrial association has given to those who have been working for a pensioner price index: That was a certain Mr. Dr. Andreas Khol, who was a certain Mr. Karl Blecha. These two gentlemen asked for the Pensionist Price Index in June, July, August, September, October and November to fall over in December! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is a formal wish for a negotiator like President Neugebauer, for he has at least proved his backbone in his negotiations! He has enforced for his civil service what he has set himself to do, and has not fallen by lying down, ladies and gentlemen. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If today I have to put on the “Kronen Zeitung” and read in it that 50,000 officials in Brussels demand 3.7 percent and that this total is 164 million €, and if I know that pensioners receive 1.5 percent and the difference is 1.9 percent, 0.4 percent, for 2.2 million Austrians exactly these 164 million, then I have to say: We know where we stand here and what we're talking about! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is one third of what we are paying Austrians for overcoming the Kyoto target, namely 531 million. And that's a scandal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Csörgits, I can tell you – unfortunately she is not here, please direct it – if you are so proud that we have a one-time payment: The one-time payment is wasted alone with this electricity price increase! Because this electricity price increase in Upper Austria with 4,5 € per month is exactly the money we get here as a one-time payment. That's not how we let our pensioners eat off, ladies and gentlemen, it can't be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the “profile” writes: Austria has paradisiacal resting conditions. - Quote. Do you know where these resting conditions are paradisaic? I can tell you: The general pension age is 65 years; in Vienna you go to pension at 51 years of age. At 51 years in Vienna! [[Call the SPÖ:Who?]] The rest is 2 268 € at the federal level, in Carinthia it is 3 594 € and in Vienna 3 291 €. [[Abg. Riepl: This is a quick payment, no...!]] €498 000 will be paid for pension benefits received until the end of the year, just doubles will be paid in Carinthia – a bankruptcy country that does it to pay off the doubles of pension benefits, ladies and gentlemen! As long as there are conditions in Austria that, although harmonised, pensions will not be implemented in the countries as long as the reorganisation of pension funds is not implemented and as long as the abolition of the pension contribution is not really implemented by public officials and public officials, ladies and gentlemen, you do not need to knock on us so that we can agree to your request. Once you've done your homework, you can come back. Do something!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21915	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e21981	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e22002	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to enter into a discourse with the FPÖ passionately, and I should like to mention two examples which have quite a lot to do with the Social Rights Amendment Act. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] On the one hand, this is an example with which the FPÖ has been up and down the road: It has told us what there is not an abuse of non-Austrian, European foreigners who are misused here in Austria. We took this seriously. We said we have to look at this: How does the abuse really look? We have taken this into the government agreement and have looked at it. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Well, and now we're on it, there's only a few hundred in total who get such a compensation allowance. [[Abg. New builder: That's meaty...!]] Of these few hundred there are fifty who are in question for an abuse; concrete abuse: one! [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] A case of abuse – this is what the Minister of Social Affairs has shown us in the Committee, and this has also been confirmed by the Pension Insurance Institute, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we cannot argue against a measure that is in itself reasonable. I would also like to say that very clearly to you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Second: Now, Mr. Kickl is no longer in the hall, but he has knocked in with the pensions murderously. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: When you examine this as you did in the Investigation Committee...!]] I'd like to tell you one thing: What possibilities do we have in terms of demographic development as we have them? – You can reduce benefits, you can increase contributions, you can raise the retirement age or you can increase the federal contribution. I can turn on this screw when it comes to the state pension system. [[Abg. New builder:... have more courage!]] I'm just asking you: Tell me which of these measures you want! Go out and tell us exactly what you want! - I'm with you. [[Abg. New builder: I just told you! Didn't you listen?]] I am of the opinion that the principle of benefits should also be maintained in the state pension system. That is why I am against these coverts, because those who pay more in contributions should ultimately also receive a higher pension; that is no question at all. But I've basically only got those four screws in the state pension system that I can turn on. I invite you to say: What screw should we turn on? What is the FPÖ for?
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e22117	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e22140	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Social Rights Amendment Act, Agenda item 31: Because important demands from our side, such as pension adjustment, introduction of an e-card with photo and the like, were not taken into account by the government, we reject this government template. I therefore tabled a motion for a resolution by Mr Kickl, Mr Neubauer, Mr Doppler and others: ‘The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council a government template ensuring fair recognition of heavy work for women and men and ensuring that heavy workers receive a pension on the basis of necessary insurance periods without 60-year-old deductions.’ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e22183	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e22234	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e22255	Mr President. High house! First, I would like to make an amendment to ensure that the social security contribution freedom of the flat-rate travel expenses for athletes continues to be in line with the tax exemption status. [[Quoted print version removed]] As far as the amendment is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== Social law amendment law provides for novels to social security laws – it has already been pointed out – but it is also about prevention of abuse, e.g. in the use of the e-card, in the compensation scheme or in the compensation contract. The aim of this proposal is clearly a careful use of social security contributions in our social security scheme and its benefits. Mrs Haubner said yes: It's important that the money is missing everywhere. – I think it is not wrong to point out the following, ladies and gentlemen: The debt of parts of the economy in social security amounts to approximately €955 million. That means that parts of the economy owes social security €955 million! This has been the state of play as of 31.12.2008; I suspect that if we have the 31.12.2009, this amount will not change very much, it will remain so. Debts are one – there can be a debt today and tomorrow it can be settled – but it's about something else. Ladies and gentlemen! In the period from 2000 to 2008, the regional health telephone had to write a total of €1 151 million as infallible. That is to say, this €1 151 million is missing in the social system, cumulated from 2000 to 2008. An amount that would certainly have brought reliefs in the social security system has simply disappeared, which is not really there! I can only appeal to all the parties in the house to work together with the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister of Health to ensure that they do not have to continue to do so in the next few years. The strain of this amount is that 45 percent of these are employees' contributions. This means, for example, that we have € 518 million over the period as employees' contributions which, as it were, employers did not pass on with their contributions. These have disappeared, they do not appear in the system anymore, and they have to be written down as infallible. How nice it would be if this amount were available! These are on average over € 100 million a year, once more, once a little less. I think we should not go to the agenda on this issue. I would also ask the Minister responsible to say one more word on this fact, because I think that the preparations that will be considered in the section on this subject are also worth being really discussed and addressed next year. It is simply a scandal if such an amount is missing in the social system and we are actually going to the agenda here. I do not think we can do that, and once again I invite everyone to find a solution together and to ask those who cause it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e22342	The amendment tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e22406	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e22427	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There are a number of topics that are particularly relevant to me, including pensions. Pension law has not been created for both the statistical and the mathematicians, but without exception for the people who are allowed to leave their working life and expect their old age insurance. Of course, we have a debate on whether pension rights are sufficiently strong or not – at least at the moment we have 2 150 000 pensioners in Austria, of which 250 000 are pensioners. I think you have to think about it! There is above all a professional group which has particularly strict accounting rules and therefore a high discount. Mr Federal Minister, I would ask that we discuss this question in the next few days. I think that's important. Point two: You always have to say that giving is very easy, but you have to bring it in too! The pension right in Austria is well established, but it is actually based on the generation contract, and you have to say what you like to give to one another, even to the other, because they have to pay it! Overall, I believe that the pension adjustment has succeeded – I believe it is a measure – and that is why it will also receive our approval. ==References====External links== Social law amendment law some thoughts: Federal Minister of Health! For the investment redemption according to § 42 para. 1 Z 1 now gives you an extended supervisory right. I think the ministry will have a lot to do. I am personally about this passage, I do not want to say, unhappy, but fortunate either: To pay investment redemptions, you have to think about it well! Point two: I think that, in future, better control of the e-card is possible, the ingenious product that we have in Austria for billing the benefits. The quality of the e-card may be questioned in the future. This can already be done today: It's the name on it, it's the insurance number with the date of birth on it, it's on the back of the signature on it. Here a control makes sense, both in the hospitals and in the ordinations; I think that's okay. Furthermore, if the age limit for contractual partners is set at 70 years of age, no one in Austria will be particularly affected. I don't think much more is to be said about the medical community. Of course, this is a debate in the field of tension between expectation and possibility. I think, too. This will still be done, and it will be presented. But then something has to be corrected in contract law: It can't be – and that's true for the whole social area at all – that we always increase benefits, on the other hand there is a shortage of money and we're not prepared to make corrections – it may still be so traditional. We will try to present something to you in the next few days, and I hope that it will then receive your approval and approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e22483	Next speaker: Federal Minister Hundstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e22504	Mr President. Mr Stöger! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's necessary to get a few things to where they belong. In the case of the compensation allowance, I believe we have responded in time. I can only say one thing here before again wild rumors wander through the area – in a daily newspaper, 40 cases from Bulgaria and Romania are already mentioned –: We only have 22 Romanian cases, and I think we have only ten Bulgarian cases. Just so that it's clear once! By the way: The same system applies to Austrians living abroad, including once again for clarification. The largest group currently inside this pot comes from the Federal Republic of Germany: That's 378 cases – that's just once on the subject. We have, I think, responded correctly, and we have simply put a right action here. I would like to congratulate everyone who now screams after the e-card with a photo of light. I think you all have no idea of mathematics. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's good!]] In an average life, about nine to ten issues of the e-card with a photo of light would be needed. We all have the problem with our driver's license. Many have made their driver's license with 17, 18, 19. [[Abg. Grosz: And what about the passport that is valid for ten years?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: passports! Identity IDs!]] There are more and more things where people have something in their eyes. Keep in mind the administrative process: 8 million people have to make their photo available. [[Abg. Grosz: How about the passport!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Leave the mathematics alone!]] 8 million people! That's one point. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: This is true at the pass!]] Point two: With the system e-card plus ID card, I think we did something very reasonable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think you are doing a huge problem, because the exhibition of a passport is not used by 8 million people; there are many people in our country who do not have a passport. There you should ask yourself, Mr Grosz, among other things in Graz. [[Abg. Grosz: Are those with a different passport? Or maybe paperless?]] – I am talking about 8 million people, Austrian citizens. I would also like to say a little bit about the remarks of the liberals, because there are a lot of things being played up here again and again – it is a matter of some honesty. The pensioners are estimated to have not been in conformity with legislation in 2007. It was also explained here many times by this pult that 500,000 pensioners had not received something that they were legally entitled to. After this has been done by all bodies and the pension adjustment 2007 has been declared by the Austrian Constitutional Court of Justice for legal purposes: Do you hear anything from the liberals? [[Abg. Riepl: They are all ashamed!]] Do you still hear anything about what has been speeded up again and again? By the way, the same applies to my statement in the “Kurier. ” If you use standard life assurance instead of existential, then you are at the right terminus technician. And, ladies and gentlemen, of the liberals, the pension account, which in future will lead to a flattening of the curve in pensions for the 20-30-year-olds today, you have decided and not social democracy. That's what it's like. You decided in 2003 and you have to answer that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Don't always spread sand to people! And don't believe you can achieve voice maximation with blind populism. People also come to know what blind populism is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should like to make this clear again: Mr Neubauer! You're gonna allow me a sage sage? [[Abg. New builder: No!]] I'd like to go through a mathematical equation with you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The great mathematics superteacher on the government bank!]] They stand out here and say that 164 million € would have been the plus of the pension adjustment. [[Abg. New builder: Yes!]] That's just wrong! It is wrong because a tenth percentage point ASVG-pension adjustment costs € 28 million. If you're going to do this, you'll find that things are also confused, mixed here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're a genius, aren't you?]] I know, populistly speaking, it's not nice if you have to prove the truth, but it's just that you're confusing things here, too. [[Abg. Grosz: If you give him a record slide, he can push the squats around!]] I would like to conclude by saying: There are more and more illustrations that I would have taken away pensions during my duties as ÖGB President. I would like to repeat what I have repeated in the meantime with seven court proceedings, and you will hear this as well today – Mr Grosz, listen before you ask now! [[Abg. Grosz: Were you not included in the BAWAG procedure?]] Ask me afterwards! Point one: These were operating supplementary pensions which were not capitalised but served from the current revenue of the ÖGB. Point two: A 2006 balance sheet creation was no longer possible without the reorientation of these pensions. Thirdly, they have simply been paid to people with relatively good and, as it turns out now, even charges held in courts. - That's all! It was about bringing an association over the rounds, allowing an association to produce a balance sheet. About 1 300 pensioners were affected, former employees; 1 320 have signed in the first tranche and are in the meantime, I think ten or twenty court proceedings pending. This is just to make you know this and not always to place rumors in the world that are wrong. It doesn't do anything! I know populism is deceiving, but let us also stick to the subject matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e22761	Mr Neubauer referred to an actual correction. Speaking time maximum 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e22785	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer has just said that the liberals would have claimed from this speaker's desk that they had filed a complaint for 500,000 people in that country, and the Administrative Court would have declared everything to be right. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: The Constitutional Court!]] – The Constitutional Court. I'm actually correcting as follows: On today's telephone question by Mr Werner Neubauer, Member of the National Council, I inform you that until today I have not received any decision from the Constitutional Court of Justice as a designated legal representative of the applicant. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the statement of the Federal Minister is therefore wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e22841	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. Debates of the European Parliament Social law Amendment Act 2009 in 541 of the Supplements. Mr Csörgits, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a request from Mr Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment mentioned and the request for separate vote, following the classification of the draft, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft, which have not yet been voted on. We shall be voting separately on Article 1, Part 1, points 22, 24 and 31, as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who are voting for these parts of the draft to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Wöginger, Mr Cots, which refers to the insertion of a new Z 4a in Article 1(2). Whoever gives his consent to this request, I would like to ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall be voting separately on Article 1(2), points 5 to 9, as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who join him. – This is unanimously accepted. We come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, on Rule 1(2) § 648. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject, if I may. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote separately on Article 1(2) Z 11, Article 2(1) 4 to 5 and 7, Article 2(2), points 1d, 2, 3 and 5, Article 3(l) points 4, 5 and 7, Article 3(2), points 1 to 3 and 5 and Article 4(4) and (5) respectively, as amended by the Committee's report. I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. If you give your consent, I ask for a sign to be given. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. If you also join this draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger, colleagues, on the adjustment of the compensatory allowance rate in accordance with § 293 ASVG to the poverty risk threshold. If you are in favour of the motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Neubauer, ladies and gentlemen, on pension adjustment in accordance with the price index for pensioners' budgets. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. - He doesn't find a majority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would also like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the War Victim Care Act, the Sacrifice Care Act, the Military Care Act and other laws, including title and entry into 544 of the Supplements. If you agree, I'll ask you for a sign. – This is decided by a majority. I would also like to ask you at third reading for a sign of this draft law. – The draft was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Insolvency Reimbursement Act, including title and receipt in 543 of the Supplements. I ask for your consent. – This is decided by a majority. If you also give your consent at third reading, I ask you to give a sign. – The draft was adopted by a majority vote and was therefore adopted at the third reading. vote on the draft federal law amending the unemployment insurance law, together with the title and receipt in 542 of the supplements. If you're for this draft, I'll ask you for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. If you also give your consent in third reading, I ask you to vote. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. [[18:53:06]] 35. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (491, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Law on Working Time, the Labour Peace Act and the Power Driving Act 1967 (539 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23028	We are now dealing with the 35th. Agenda item. I call Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23052	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The government template to be adopted today includes changes to the working time law, the labour rest law and the power driving law of 1967. This will eliminate the discrepancy between the laws and adapt them to practice. This is about the approximation of the derogations with regard to the obligation to control equipment and the time limits of the EU, the obligation to control equipment for regional road transport, changes to the registration requirement and the implementation of Annex III to the Steering Control Directive. Since the Novelle Working Time Act 1994, which introduced the accompanying regulation on EU control equipment, the structure of road transport has changed in principle. The current regulation of § 17 of the Working Time Act, for example, which still lays down the road map as a rule and the control equipment as an exception, is no longer timely. These provisions should therefore be adapted accordingly to the needs of practice, since more and more vehicles are being installed without EU obligation digital control devices. Therefore, those vehicles which are not exempted from the obligation to control equipment will in future have a right to vote between the control devices and the roadbook. In view of today's circumstances, the control device will be the case and will no longer be the driving book, which has actually been mandatory until now, so that the obligation to use control equipment will be conceived as a regular case in the future. An amendment to the motor vehicle law is explicitly stated in § 24 that buses used in regional regular services must at least be installed and used in a control device within the meaning of this Regulation. The transitional period was here once again until the 31st century. It was extended on 1 December 2013. This means that there are now 20 years of transitional period. This should also be enough for implementation in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, this government template to be adopted today is therefore an adaptation in many areas to existing structures and current practice and also gives the legal basis the appropriate clarity. We definitely support this change of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23093	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23116	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! To implement the EU Control Directive for drivers up to 1. January 2010 in the Law on Working Time and Work-Retirement: So far, we have a discrepancy between the law on motor vehicles and labour law, which in practice leads to great uncertainty among legal users. These ambiguities are to be eliminated by harmonisation. For example, as already mentioned, the tachographs have been considered a rule in Austria. The control equipment will be used here in the future. This is being changed, and this is an important step. With regard to vehicles in which the control device is already installed without obligation, it is intended to be determined either. The implementation of the Control Directive will also be given the opportunity to achieve a clear simplification of criminal provisions through the conversion of the classification system. This directive is a facilitation for businesses, gives legal certainty and unites the facts across Europe. However, I would like to pay particular attention to the Committee's determination of the interruptions in accordance with Article 7 of the Regulation. For example, this is about vehicles of the road construction offices that are used for the winter service. These include vehicles from commissioned companies. On the one hand, this is an important adjustment for small communities and, on the other hand, for the mayors and the municipal budgets, that they are treated with larger communities, even if they do not own a large fleet – and this, of course, continues to help – and on the other hand, it is also very important for the companies that operate it. We have very many agricultural and forestry farms in this area, which provide important services for our society in the context of over-company cooperation, often organized in machine rings. There is a lot of talk about climate in the last few days, but we should also bear in mind that we have to live in our latitudes with certain climate limitations. Especially in winter, we are often unaware of this because the streets are perfectly cleared. According to meteorologists, if we can enjoy white Christmas, I would like to thank all those who work in winter service during these times, and I am confident that this law will also provide a necessary adjustment for this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23153	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23175	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We welcome the implementation of the EU Control Directive as well as the simplification of criminal provisions depending on the seriousness of the offences. It is true that the introduction of the digital control device in 2005, i.e. during our government responsibility, was an important step towards increasing road safety and, at all, improving the working conditions of the motor vehicles. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] With the use of this modern system, it is easy to verify whether drivers and transport operators comply with the statutory provisions for driving and rest periods. This driver's card is also equipped with a photo, as well as the check card driver's license. Mr Federal Minister, that's why it wouldn't be at all. Problem that you can do what is possible at the e-card. In any case, it is important that you can understand everything. The drivers now no longer need to change the tachographs every day, but on this card all rides and rest periods are stored in a period of up to 28 days. It cannot also be a driver standing in the parking lot with the vehicle and the other driver as well, and then they change the vehicles and continue again – the rest times would of course not be observed. Everything is recorded there on the driver's card and comprehensible, which is of advantage as it contributes to a greater safety on our roads. We shall therefore give our consent to this provision.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23220	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23241	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens too welcome this EU directive-based government paper on driving time records. In concrete terms, however, I would like to refer to a point which I have already mentioned in committee, as well as to Mr Hell. This is a provision which provides for the installation of digital control devices, but it is also an additional transitional period until 31 December. ==References== Mr Minister, that means that they still have three more years for the Vienna lines until it is necessary to have these digital devices in their vehicles. They argue that this is necessary because the whole thing is such a great financial effort. – I cannot understand why you are so overly transparent, especially in view of the fact that since 1994 the Motor Driving Act has already stated that at least for speed controls such digital devices should already be inside. However, this has not been the case for the transport companies. You didn't stick to it, you must continue now – and just get three more years of transition from you. In turn, they argue these three years that these digital records do not have an impact on security. That is to say, they are no better than the travel book; therefore, there is no reason to rush. But even this argument is very difficult for me to understand, because of course it is a difference whether you can see at any time in an automatic handlebar time recording – that is, at any time, even on the road – or only in retrofitting in the operation to see into a travel book that still leads the handlebar itself. That's a difference. This is, of course, also a difference in safety, safety of handlebars, but above all also passengers. That's why I'm asking: Why are we waiting so long? But again: On the whole, we agree with this proposal, despite the mistakes in beauty in the transitional and exceptional provisions.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23282	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 539 of the supplements. If you are in favour of this draft, I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is unanimously accepted. If you agree in third reading, I ask for your sign. – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. [[19:04:14]] 36. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (490 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Labour Inspectorate Act 1993, the Labour Contract Act, the General Social Insurance Act and the Federal Law on Transport Labour Inspectorate (540 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23327	We are now dealing with the 36th. Agenda item. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lap. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23351	Mr President. Minister! High house! It's about the novel of the Labour Inspectorate Act. It will facilitate communication between labour inspectorates and the central coordination body for the control of illegal employment. It shall be taken into account that there is a safe transfer of data, particularly for the consultation of labour inspectorates with social security institutions and the main association. Only those data that are absolutely necessary for the control will be provided. This amendment, which we decide on, also serves to reduce the administrative burden, because it was a little more complicated and still with a lot of jobs in between. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Furthermore, we now deal with and decide to clarify local responsibility for the conduct of administrative criminal proceedings under § 111 ASVG. This also serves to avoid conflicts of competence, for it was to be clear whether it was the place where unlawful behaviour was detected and placed – or whether there was the place where people were registered for social security. Now, criminal proceedings can be introduced after the company's seat. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, two important changes, on the one hand, are about presenting better transparency, administrative simplification and, on the other hand, a smooth process between authorities. – I ask you to give your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23394	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23415	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My predecessor has already explained what this change of law is all about. Of course, these two important changes are primarily for us to have a small – thank God! – but can better combat existing blackwork in Austria. This is not only for the competitiveness of enterprises, but also, of course, primarily for the protection of workers. Mr Lapp has also stated that it is important that we ensure the highest level of data protection in this regulation. However, we have also taken part in the The Committee meeting adopted a Committee statement on the need to ensure the protection of life, health and morality, the employment of children and young people, the employment of workers, in particular working time during pregnancy and after maternity, rest breaks and rest periods, holiday records and so on. I am also seeking approval of this change because it helps workers and businesses alike.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23451	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23473	Mr President. High house! The creation of a legal basis for the use of the KIAB file of the Federal Ministry of Finance and the data of the social security institutions or the main association of social security funds is our consent because this is the first step, a correct step in the right direction. In principle, we advocate strengthening the control of illegal workers' employment, and since the KIAB is only a part of the financial authority, measures of effective action of these control bodies are also severely limited. Too many KIAB employees have already been removed from the service in their areas of activity, partly used for purposes, or entrusted with additional tasks and are no longer fully available to fight fraud. However, in order to make KIAB again a powerful special unit for combating fraud, it would be necessary to create its own federal control unit for KIAB agents and the direct submission, namely the Federal Minister for Finance, on a service basis, professionally and budgetaryly. In addition, the KIAB needs a general federal orientation while taking into account specific regional differences. For example, in three different countries, three different methods of use are introduced. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the increase in staff of the KIAB to 500 employees, as we have repeatedly called for, would also benefit the state budget. In the previous year, it was almost €31 million in fines. The officials did almost 29 000 overtime in 2008. We have so far – due to the obvious disinterest of the Federal Government – not only missed millions of euros of tax money, but also massively squandered on the back of the officials – and this is an irresistible state!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23513	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23534	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In order to achieve administrative simplification and effective enforcement of the control of workers' protection provisions, the labour inspectorates are now entitled to take an insight into the KIAB database within the framework of their legally delegated tasks. In addition, the social security funds and the main association of the Austrian social security scheme are obliged to transmit data stored to the labour inspectorates on the insurance periods on an automated basis. Considering that illegal employment is a significant part of Austria, and it must be combated, is an important step in the right direction. That is why we will agree with that by the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23567	The last speaker to speak was Mrs Mag. Honey. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23588	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens also welcome this electronic networking, this data exchange between labour inspectors, KIAB and social security institutions. However, I very much hope that this, Mr Minister, does not remain the only measure of your announced fight against undeclared work and, above all, against wage and social dumping. You promise us in concrete terms in your government programme that you will improve and streamline the measures against wage and social dumping by no later than 30. In June 2009, the Commission submitted a proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations - We have December now. This is certainly an important step that will be taken, but I hope it is not the last one. I would already be interested when we have more to expect on this important topic and what will come from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23624	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 490 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimous. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. [[19:13:24]] 37. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 871/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in the field of evaluation and further development of the Public Prosecutor's Office (545 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23680	We now reach 37. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig has spoken. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23709	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) ==References== December, i.e. last week, was the International Day of People with Disabilities, and around this day there have been a number of events for their concerns. It was mainly about disabled people wanting to have equal participation in all areas of life in our society, and also that they can lead a self-determined life. It has been shown that disability policy is a cross-sectional matter that covers all areas of life and policy, and I believe that it must also include it. Austria has the law on the equalisation of the disabled in the Federal Republic of Germany. In January 2006, a good basis for the rights of people with disabilities and discrimination against people with disabilities came into force. They know that at that time it was defined what is to be understood as “inhibition, ” and what is to be understood as “discrimination. ” Legal effects have been established that discriminatory persons receive compensation for damages that must be preceded by a conciliation procedure. The law also contains a regulation on the burden of proof, and there is the possibility that the ÖAR may propose an association action. ==References== At the same time, the sign language was recorded in the Austrian Constitution in January 2006, and a ban on discrimination in the world of work was introduced in the Law on Disability. At the same time as this Federal Disability Equality Act, the composition of the Federal Disability Advisory Council was changed; the Federal Disability Advocate began his work at the time. At the time, the ÖAR referred to this law as the best-practice example for Europe. These are beautiful successes that can be shown in disability policy. However, I am not making any secret of the fact that there must always be further developments in disability policy so that this social-political task can also be achieved as best as possible so that participation can actually be achieved. I am therefore very pleased that we have been able to decide on a five-party proposal in the Committee on Social Affairs, which is based on the evaluation of the Federal Disability Equality Act. I would like to thank all the parties, with all my colleagues, for the fact that it is very often a matter of consensus in this matter. I think that we in this House are proving to the disabled people and also to the organisations that we are putting their concerns before the party policy. I am convinced that this is the best contribution for people with disabilities on their way to a self-determined life and to participation in our society.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23770	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Maij-Weggen. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23792	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With regard to the evaluation of the Federal Disability Equality Act, my predecessor has already carried out a lot and pointed out that this very sensitive issue is of course also about doing everything in common that people with disabilities receive the best possible framework conditions for a self-determined life. That is why I am very glad – I would also like to thank you for – that it has succeeded in deciding at least on this legislative matter today to make a five-party application which, in principle, will bring improvements to people with disabilities. As explained earlier, a conciliation procedure is being carried out with the Federal Social Office, the possibility of the association action is to be granted, there are transitional periods in the field of construction and transport, and the possible extension of the legal protection instrument – and the institution of the disabled attorney is to continue to be strengthened. This evaluation, I believe, is another correct step that we can now make good consciences about this five-party agreement. I therefore seek not only approval, but also help to ensure that this law is finally lived by us together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23828	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23849	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, As my previous speakers have said, this is a five-party matter. However, I would like to remind you that, in fact, we have been fighting for this law for three years, because in the government agreement of January 2007, it was already mentioned that there should be an evaluation and also a further development of the disabled attorney's office. A motion for a resolution by Mr Hofer called for you to remember this subject again. That doesn't mean my joy. However, a little bit of my joy is already reduced when one hears from experts that the skills of this disabled attorneyship are not sufficient or should be expanded. So that would be another important step in this direction. Something that sometimes gives the whole a flawless side-effect: You know the era's head is running out, and it's already going to be fought behind the scenes who's supposed to occupy this post. It is not disputed who is the best person, it is only disputed about the color – whether red or black. This is really very sad, and this has not deserved the policy of the disabled in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23883	Next, Mr Dolinschek. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23904	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! The Federal Disability Equality Act should now be subject to a scientific study and evaluated – something that your predecessor, Minister Hundstorfer, Mr Buchinger, has announced, but never implemented. In my opinion, it is important that those people who do not have it so easily in life be freed from their difficulties. It is still true that many private health insurances refuse to take out personal insurance with these people at all. That's why it's about further development of the disabled attorney's office. That's important to me. And it will definitely be if now a successor of Mag. Herbert Haupt – who, I believe, has done this in an exemplary way so far – takes over this function, everyone who has applied for it and with 1. January 2010 is to be ordered to find large steps in which he will have to step in if he wants to fulfil this task as Mr Mag. [[OBJECTIVES]] Herbert Haupt, who was himself a victim. As a disabled lawyer, Mr Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask myself to be concerned in the future, for such a person is more credible and can appreciate things much better for those people who otherwise do not have it so easily in life.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23942	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Jarmer. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e23964	Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! On the subject of the defendant's office: The role of a disabled lawyer is that he is, as it were, an important instrument for us, and his work has shown that many people – these are the results that he has also told us – still have very little awareness of the issue of disability, especially what the needs of disabled people are. On the other hand, the people concerned themselves, people with disabilities, do not know what their rights are. That is to say, the task of the disabled lawyer was and is to gather these experiences and findings, to present them and to share them here with us in the form of recommendations. This is so far a good thing, but – and you know that – it is just a recommendation, and we now need the implementation of it. The evaluation is a good thing, it has the goal – and we want to do so – to give the disabled lawyer more skills to support him in his work. And these experiences, which we are now getting, are important. This should not only be a beautiful story and we read it through now, but it is about us actually implementing it. The work of Mr Mag. The main thing is, as we know, soon to end, and I want to pick out a point in relation to his activity. It's about the Federal Disability Equality Act. Mr Mag. Head himself says that this law was an important step in the right direction, but he also says that this law does not break down the barriers. What we need now are enforcement laws – that is also his opinion. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and BZÖ.]] This should be the target for 2010. I would like to join Mr Mag. Mainly really thank you very much, thank you for your good work, and I hope that the person who will take over this office in the future will really consider the concerns of people with disabilities and also implement them accordingly. [[Complementary by Members of the Greens and BZÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There you should order him again!]] An appeal to you, Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24038	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24062	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! I can only agree with Mrs Jarmer's words. I too would really like to express my heartfelt thanks to a person who has proven high social competence, to a person who has also had to experience himself, as the perspective is from a wheelchair, to a person who is himself disabled by his various and different diseases, and who has therefore shown a high sensitivity to people in his political life, and who is not as good as he is, who is simply interested in justice and whom the legislator refuses to do so too often. Herbert Haupt has shown a great deal of sensitivity to social weakness. He was a strong voice, he is a strong voice – a voice that has not always been understood, but he was a strong voice, an inflexible voice also for the weak in this country and also a rock in the burning of social policy, even though there have been directions that have meant quite unsocial for Austria. May. The main function was in many different roles – as the third President of this House, as a long-standing Member of Parliament, as social spokesperson, as Vice-chanc and Minister of Social Affairs of the Republic, and not least as a Federal-Difficulty Advocate – and therefore I repeat, also on behalf of our group, what Sigisbert Dolinscheks has said, and join me in what Mr Jarmer said: A warm thanks to Herbert Haupt! We are also committed to our desire that the successor of this heritage, join this era and show the same social competence. This function certainly does not serve to define itself party-politically. Colleague Jarmer has justifiably said that everything is still waiting for us in the Federal Disability Equality Act, a law on equal treatment for the disabled, which had to wait for 40 years until the light of the world has been seen by the Minister of Social Affairs Herbert Haupt – for the first time justice in the history of the Second Republic! We hope – also with Mr Haidlmayr, of course, Mrs Moser; my remarks are against no one, but I am speaking for the concerns, Mrs Colleague – and therefore also wish us to continue this path, including this path of persistence in the sense and in the interest of people with disabilities in our country. [[Abg. Dr. Moser:... Haidlmayr!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24108	As a provisional last word, I have to say the words of Mr Hundstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24130	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to see the opportunity and Mr Mag. Thank you, too, for your work here. I have already done this personally, and Mr Mag. ==References== In a final press conference convened by him on December, I believe that there is also a very comprehensive activity report. This is good and should be so, for I can only speak here of the one year I worked with him, but this was characterized and borne by the effort to ask the question: How can we bring something forward for people with special needs? – That was also said by me at this point. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you also allow me to point out briefly on this item on the agenda, because I know that there are currently discussions in various disability organisations about the questions: How do we proceed with the right of equal treatment for persons with disabilities?, how do we proceed with the right of setting up the disabled?, and all these discussions. That is why I say here again: In the law on the introduction of the disabled, I will only apply for an amendment if the disabled organisations themselves propose it. – I wanted to say this very consciously at this point, because the various disabled organisations are currently discussing very much themselves internally: If there are to be changes in the right of recruitment, revisions, then this can only be done together with them. At the moment, we are also trying to observe the labour market situation of people with special needs, and I should also like to say here: We do not have an excessive increase in the unemployment rate of people with special needs. We also have four workshops in the various disabled projects that we have, especially in the protected workshops, which are short-time work, because they have simply taken over work for the automotive sector and have now lost orders. That too will be carried on by us. We continue to secure overall funding, because I believe that especially in economically difficult and difficult times for the labour market, our special attention must be paid to those who need our special assistance, and these are people with special needs. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24190	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 545 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 70.) [[19:31:09]] 38. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 859/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act, with which the Federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children is passed (528 d.b.) 39. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on the Petitions (19/PET) on “Children’s rights in the federal constitution – initiated by the above Austrian children’s friends”, presented by Mr Sonja Ablingenrund Mag. Kurt Gaßner (529 d.B.) 40. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 65/A(E) by Mr Tanja Windbüchler-Sushill, Members of Parliament on: Children's rights in the Constitution – 16 years of waiting are enough! (530 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24274	We now come to points 38 to 40 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stefan. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24302	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Children's rights in the Constitution – undoubtedly a positive thing. However, the procedure chosen here is very transparent. Since 1989, the Convention on Children's Rights has existed in the United Nations – and now we are trying to anchor children's rights in the Constitution a little transparent, very quickly and in the short term and also sloppy to push the opposition to the Black Peter because she does not want to vote here. In fact, however, this draft law is not largely enough. In particular, our criticism is that it is not addressed that children's rights are related to the family, that the integration of children in the family should be taken into account, as is enshrined in the UN Convention on Children's Rights. For example, the sloppy nature of this law is noted in the explanatory remarks, where Article 5 states that the protection of the child from “any form” of punishment is to be guaranteed. – I do not suppose that anyone seriously believes that in principle children should not be punished in any form – namely, in “any form”. So I suppose you chose a very sloppy procedure here, and that shows how that was thought. It is therefore a completely inadequate law. If you take it seriously that you want to anchor children's rights in the Constitution, then you should discuss it again, also talk about the opposition. We therefore definitely support the referral request.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24339	Mr Wittmann spoke next. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24360	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! I was very interested to have followed the debate today in the early part of the debate, because I find this attitude very strange by discussing for two years the formulation of a fundamental right for children, and then in a two-year convention I find it possible to offer a consensus solution, namely a full formulation of this right based on a two-year discussion, which followed a formulation, which took place on 7 July. It was prepared in consensus on December 2004, and this solution was agreed by Mrs Mag. Glavisch as a member of the parliament, although the UN Convention was already in place at that time. I think it's very transparent. You do not know how to get out of your blockade policy and now start a discussion that you have held for two years, and then you yourself signed this wording in the Bureau, which is available here today – exactly right here! You brought them back at the time! These are the ones you have with the decision of 7. As did Mr Scheibner! That is why Mr Stadler is probably on the list of speakers, because he did not want to let Scheibner talk, because he agreed to the wording of this draft at the time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is only this transparent project: not to know how to get out of this blockade policy, into which you have driven yourself, and therefore to invent something for which the arguments are already on the table at that time, because the UN Convention has been in place for 20 years. Then it was discussed for two years, then one agreed on a formulation, then it was signed, then there was a consensus on this formulation. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: We didn't agree with anyone!]] December, a consensus between all the parties, the BZÖ – which at the time was called FPÖ – now Mr Scheibner considers BZÖ representative – but also Dr. Böhmdorfer of the Freemans agreed to this wording. And now, because you've gotten into a situation you don't know how to get out of it, you're trying to build a new argument that's no longer right. It may already be that there is a new youth speaker who has no idea of these old agreements, but I believe that Mrs Glawischnig must also be honored here, that she knows the difference between constitutional regulation and implementing legislation and knows that there are always overarching principles in a constitutional system and not the implementation instructions or the word-rich interpretations that one must make with several laws. [[Hello rupture of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For example, the poverty of children – that could be in the Constitution!]] The right to education is covered by our draft as well as the right to health or other constitutional rights to be guaranteed. But I find it really embarrassing, especially from the Greens, that out of a situation in which you have driven yourself into, you do not let the children come to what you had already agreed on. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Come down again!]] I really think it is objectionable, on the basis of principles that have really lost nothing in the area of children's rights, which may already be criticised in the field of control rights – should be everything! – to drive this to such an extent that there are no constitutional regulations that are exclusively for the benefit of children and to which one has already agreed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Come down again!]] I think that this is objectionable, morally objectionable, for a damage to democracy and for harm to children. [[Ironic Oh-Rufe at FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24468	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24490	Mr President. High house! First of all, a clarification: Some rhetorical dwarf accused me of a press service during the day, that I was deliberately not present in the vote on the Homo partnership. [[Abg. Head: Hey! Hey!]] Ladies and gentlemen, my position is known; I have presented it in the Committee on Justice. I don't need to be prescribed by anyone. If at the same time I have to represent a young defendant whose main date of negotiation will not be postponed, I also know what I have to do, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] So, in addition to this clarification, the comments of Mr Wittmann: I would have expected a Social Democratic to go out and see the link between the threat of child rights and poverty, the social situation of families and children's rights. The most beautiful children's rights in the Constitution do not benefit if they are legally reserved and at the same time nothing is done against the poverty of the families, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's the central point, and you should take care of it! It's pretty striking that that part of the UN convention... – Don't talk to Herbert Scheibner! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Mr. Scheibner has...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Herbert Scheibner! Do you know that?]] Again: As a father of six children, I don’t need your “child law constitution” so I know how to raise them! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of thousands of single mothers needed a different social security to be able to have children's rights at all! It does not do anything if the money is not available for it, and you are unfortunately not available with your social policy. It is therefore treacherous, Mr Wittmann, that the fight against poverty is not in the case of children's rights which you have proposed, although this is explicitly provided for in the Convention – one, if not the main reason for the referral back. – Last reason, political nature: What you're proposing is so much retention of law that nobody notices it when it doesn't come – nobody! It's an alibi action after 20 years, that's all. You need 20 years for your alibiactions. The point is another: When you set up an investigation committee, you have failed to calculate that you believed that this is against the opposition. They both believed: That's where we break up the opposition! – But now you have noticed that black is deep inside and that the socialists are at least up to the abdominal nerve, and now you have come to believe that this committee has to be strangled. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The second miscalculation was that you believed that the opposition was not closed on this question. They believed that greens, liberals and BZÖ would not survive due to their ideological differences. But you have done it – and you can only see how much you have appreciated – to weld the opposition parties across all ideological differences. I congratulate you on this! Faith You just can't have children's rights against the committed defence of the rights of this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] That's a miscalculation! You won't be able to go through with us! Don't believe people are so stupid that they didn't see through it, ladies and gentlemen! We will therefore agree today both to the Greens' request for full implementation of the Convention and to the referral, because this must first be discussed in the Committee. The referral is also an expression of our defense against your arbitrariness – their arbitrariness and your manual service to do so! [[the speaker points towards ÖVP]] [[the speaker points towards SPÖ]] That's our answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24635	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24656	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask, first of all, that we return to the content of this item on the agenda, that, although we did not succeed in the Committee, at least here in plenary, we should talk to each other properly and not speak of arbitrarily. And when we talk about arbitraryity, I have to play the ball back, Mr. Stadler! You operate arbitrarily, because you just want to provoke, and you don't want to prevent anything but – prevent for one thing that isn't worth it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: With our “majority ”!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where is your party?]] I think it is precisely what we should decide today with the anchoring of children's rights in the Constitution, and what we want by the ÖVP and by the SPÖ and what you have always been invited to... – Mr colleague, I have been in Parliament for a long time, and I am not sorry to be here in Parliament, just: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany May. Stadler]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: An empty sector!]] I'm sorry about this discussion, because it's not about you! It is pure populism, how you can position yourself, how you can carry out your “spump needles” that are not worth anything! But children's rights have a high priority. I would like to continue with what Mr Wittmann said and perhaps recall once again the starting point for the current Federal Constitutional Law on Children's Rights was the "Fiedler draft" from the Austrian Convention. [[Abg. Grosz: If it was so important to you...!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the ÖVP at present?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where are the children of the ÖVP?]] At that time, it was found with all consensus that children's rights should be constitutionally designed and formulated independently. I also have to tell you that this is part of the government programme. As I appreciate you – as a well-known opposition party – you have read the government programme very well. You know what's inside the government program! You will also understand and understand German when the SPÖ says: We made a request in December! – And you can also read and know: We're negotiating! – I was with all my colleagues, starting with my colleague, Mr Haubner, to the colleague Soushill and other colleagues, and I said: Talk to us! Negotiating with us! My colleague Willi Molterer did the same. You just said: Njet, we're not interested! – That’s the truth! You don't go into the content at all! You don't go into what it's all about. It's about protecting and caring for every child. And if you're talking about poverty, you've forgotten what we've done in terms of transfers for the families. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] Yes, you forgot! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Austria is one of the leading countries in family policy, in all the promotions. I would just like to point out, for example, the child care allowance or anything in the field of transfers. You don't care about it. No, you don't care! [[Abg. Don't listen: the ÖVP either!]] Interested You are only the investigating committee, where my colleague Pilz is – can I say? – when Kasperl can occur, and nothing else at all. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Brosz]] Go in the direction of consent to this law! - Yes, it is. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Come with us, please! Don't block the law! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm actually a little disappointed, although I guess my colleague Haubner said that she said, for example: It would be high time for children's rights to be implemented! Please, Mrs Colleague – I know what you have done! Let's go. Let's go. Do it! And if you say no, please explain this to our families, our children in this country! It is a pity that in these few minutes it has not actually been possible to deal with what we have enshrined and prepared in this law. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Keep talking! ... you think something's going on!]] In this sense: I'm trying to invite you once again. Please, jump over your ideological opposition shadow! Put acts instead of words!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24834	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e24855	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! “Not we children are the problem, on the contrary: We are indispensable to his solution. We are not expenditure, but investment. We are not just young people – we are people and citizens of this world.” And on top of that: “We promise that we will respect and respect ourselves. We promise to be open and sensitive to our diversity. We are the children of this world and are, in the face of all otherwise, part of a common reality.” “You call us the future, but we are also the present.” My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, these lines are from the report of the second World Children's Summit. Children and young people are not just the future, they are the present. In any case, this proposal for an initiative before us will in no way secure the present and even less the future of children and young people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] “6 out of 45”, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, six out of 45 articles, no longer, only six out of 45 you have written in the articles and save completely on the substance. Article 2 is completely excluded from the right to anti-discrimination. All children and young people regardless of their origin, their skin color, their language, their religion, their social status, regardless of wealth or disability, have the same rights. The present proposal by ÖVP and SPÖ describes only one thing: discrimination black on white. It describes the establishment of discrimination against children and young people in the Constitution. Article 12 is completely excluded from the right to participate and to take into account the opinions of children and young people. You from SPÖ and ÖVP act exclusively from the point of view of adults. They completely forget and ignore the everyday realities and the everyday life of children and young people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The essential points of social security, leisure, recreation, health and the right to education are also completely excluded. You've anchored six articles, not 45! You have not deliberately anchored the right to education and now believe that you can present the great litter to us. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: All enforcement laws!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a litter, not at all! This is political and child-law nonsense, and nothing else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But that's not all. The involvement of the experts and the experts of the child law organisations is lacking. This involvement did not happen in the Convention either, i.e. the Austrian Convention cannot at all be used as a basis for a non-existent consensus and a decision-making capacity which was de facto nonexistent. [[Abg. Großruck: Be honest: Admit that you boycott!]] Children's and youth organisations have not been involved. All the dedicated, voluntary, highly motivated employees of the child law organisations and their expertise are not heard, are ignored. [[Abg. Großruck: What you do is an egg dance to distract from the boycott!]] This is negligent, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have completely forgotten the implementation. How are we – and with this we are at the point of discussion of implementation and enforcement – to actually implement the Constitutional Law on Children and Youth? [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You say it yourself! Your formulation...!]] There is a lack of monitoring, and there is a lack of accompanying measures. These many, many failures in your coalition only leave one end: You're not worth the children's rights! Every child in Austria is worth a lot to us. Every child has the right to be heard by politics. Each child is entitled to comprehensive protection, but also to social security and future opportunities. In order to extend my hand to you again, I make the following request for a children's right, ladies and gentlemen, are never shared and will never need a husk-fusch action! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Constructive! Very constructive!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes! It's very important!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25013	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is related to the subject matter and is therefore also subject to negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25074	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25096	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I tried in the early morning at the objection debate to address content, but obviously you won't get very far from it. Now we will continue to discuss at the debate level you are taking. The Greens think in broadcasts: It is “an unusable template”, “just a political show”, “missing substance”. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Have you still not understood?]] But then I really don't understand why, in the course of the Convention, which has been created with experts – it was also a constitutional expert, Dr. Funk there who worked out the whole thing... – That's not true. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The fundamental right... wasn't a consensus!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, yes, this is a political show, but this is a political show of the Greens that you subtract here. Polemik is very much in demand with you. If I see a transparency with you today with the title “6 out of 45”, it is proof to me that you have not dealt with it at all, because the UN Convention on Children’s Rights has 54 articles and we have implemented eight articles. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: That's it!]] [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: Content!]] But you don't seem to care! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Neugebauer.]] Secondly, If You write that this is a lottery game, I can only tell you: Point one, the numbers are wrong, second, it's not a game for me, and the matter is too important to me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: Then change it!]] On the part of the BZÖ, it has now been said that poverty is missing. Poverty is clearly contained in Article 1. On the part of the BZÖ, I have heard the following sentence in the Committee: The first half sentence read: The government has been sparse for 18 years. And the second half sentence: But actually, children in Austria are not in acute danger at the moment, so we do not need to do it so quickly. - That's very transparent. I can also confirm the following to you on the part of the APA. You yourself, Mrs. Haubner, write: This is a “transparent maneuver of government ”! 17 years they would have had time for the project! Then I'll ask myself: Did I push out for seven years? And didn't you happen to be a family minister? [[Abg. Scheibner: Sit down again! Who blocked the Convention?]] What have you done for children's rights in the Constitution? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The family concept – that is the objection of the FPÖ – is clearly contained in my opinion, because one cannot write in more than to write in contact with both parents for the child's well-being. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who prevented the Convention? That's you!]] I am only really sorry if the media announcement comes – and you use it here today – that the project is basically a good one, but one will not agree to the decisive vote in plenary because of the blockade. [[Abg. Scheibner: You've blocked!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I find it embarrassing – not to say: even dirty – as you deal with children's rights as an opposition, not for the children, but on the back of the children! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's incredible what you're saying!]] The anchoring of children's rights would be a step in the right direction. I'm sorry it doesn't happen that way.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25268	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Kurzmann. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25292	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I refer to the petition “Children’s rights in the federal constitution – initiated by the above Austrian children’s friends”. The Freedom Party has agreed to this petition in the Constitutional Committee so that the promotion and protection of children can be improved so that the state and society focus on the welfare of children. However, I would like to draw your attention again today to a subject that has so far been persistently ignored by the two government groups. It is about a citizens’ initiative “violence in the family – more protection for children”, for which a Grazer from Neuseiersberg, namely Mr. Roman Ertl, has collected over 4,600 signatures. The occasion was the killing of a grandchild in April 2005 by his own father. At that time, the child was sent to the General Hospital in Vienna with the most serious injury and unfortunately a few days later he suffered serious injuries. It has clearly been a repeater. The police have only learned about these processes through the father's self-advertisement. Now, the citizens' initiative and Mr Ertl believe that a change of legal provisions would be urgently needed. We liberals share this opinion. They did not need to invent new rights, ladies and gentlemen, but only to improve existing laws. There is the famous § 54 para. 5. Change it so that there is only more: ‘If, in the performance of his profession, the physician suspects that a minor has been abused, tortured, neglected or sexually abused, the doctor shall report to the safety authority.’ I'm sorry, but You could save the rest. Then you would really be for the Surely the children in this country do something!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25332	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25353	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that we can still discuss this point here, but it has already been the request of the ‘unified’ opposition on the agenda today. It will be over here until the end of March with a package blockade over everything. [[Intervening calls and ironic hustle and bustle at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The first victim is the anchoring of children's rights in the federal constitution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The starting point for the current Federal Constitutional Law on Children's Rights was the so-called "Fiedler Design" from the Austrian Convention, discussed for a long time and carried broad. The text contains those children's rights, which are also mentioned in the draft Constitution. The main cornerstones: Protection and care for the benefit of every child, right to participation, child welfare as a central measure of action. The text does not contain any absolute fundamental rights. These would be symbolic because they are not practical. The children's rights of the Federal Constitutional Law on Child Rights are real fundamental rights, not mere symbols. Each child can appeal to her by means of his legal representatives. However, not all topics are constitutionally regulated: Rather, there is a need for good laws, although not in the constitutional order, for fair living conditions for all children. In the field of education, for example, there is a training guarantee in Austria up to the age of 18. Year of life, compulsory schooling, free access to kindergartens et cetera, in the field of health insurance, entitlement to health care, social assistance et cetera. The constitutional anchoring of children's rights is absolutely essential with a view to improving legal protection and strengthening the legal status of children. It has already been criticized that this draft has been needed too long. After many years of discussion, we now have a bill in the house that would enable us to anchor the rights of children in the Constitution, which is wanted by all. The time – just before Christmas – could not be better chosen: The feast of love, perhaps here as a background for some Members, is also committed to the rights of children. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] At another item on the agenda today, we were accused of not being a family party. . I ask that group that is convinced to prove to us that it is really the better family party, because family is where children are. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are proof that already... can be chosen!]] Cheap political smacks should be Do not hold back family politicians from their consent here! And now we are in front of the vote, and you are tied up with an unconstructive blockade, with the hypocritical argument that you can only enforce your parliamentary rights by voting against this vote, which is probably not really a good light on your political competence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I ask you, and above all the youth representatives of your political groups, not to give up on your vote and join this draft. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: The club force only exists at the ÖVP!]] The Greens have already made a reference to a slogan from the Lotto advertising. I would like to add: What's the name of the lotto? Everything is possible! – Make You can also do anything for our children!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25433	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. Set speaking time: 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25455	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It will not take that long, but it has already been an hour of parliamentarianism, which has been commanded here by SPÖ and ÖVP. Mr. colleague – how? Jewel beaters, huh? Where is he? [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Don't evade the name!]] - Please? No, I really don't know! Back there: Jewel beater, right, isn't it? . You, please get excited about how unscrupulous your Members are talking, and not whether I'm saying that name right! That would be more important! [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's a lot of fun. We are discussing an important control instrument, a committee of inquiry, all of which we have said in common: It is now important that we seek the greatest scandals in the history of the Second Republic! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] You'll take this off, and then you'll be upset that we're kind of junctimizing this?- Oh, my God! - That's great! [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Head: This is like a cabaret! It's like a theater!]] And then, as always, a Member of Parliament, as he is called – so that I do not detest him – goes down here and reads insults towards opposition. – So you really haven't experienced anything like this in the House, ladies and gentlemen! Unique, unique! This Member speaks of freedom of conscience. – Does he remember what happened at the ÖVP at the first item on the agenda here with the force of clubs? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] The Members of Parliament say to us in the benches: We would like to vote against it anyway, but we have the force of clubs; we must vote in favour. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality! That's the reality! [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Stay up there when you preach water and drink wine here, in the truest sense of the word! [[Abg. Head: Tell me, are you taking yourself seriously at all?]] But now to the SPÖ. It is, of course, funny, ladies and gentlemen, when the Members, Mr Wittmann – now he is making himself wide again, Mr Wittmann – and Mrs Lueger – come out and argue with the Constitutional Convention. – Well, I even... No, we've heard, but you don't want to believe it's still being done! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For 19 months we are – not only our Members; Experts, professors, also SPÖ – sat in the Constitutional Convention and tried to bring together a truly new, modern federal constitution, and there, of course, children's rights and fundamental social rights also presented an important debate. We tried to find a consensus there, and your colleague Kostelka was the one who came out of Löwelstraße with orders from the SPÖ party headquarters. The Njets have always come from there. And then he always tried to turn the girl even further. Kostelka said he would like to agree, but there are no fundamental social rights. We said: Yes, of course, we also want fundamental social rights! Then he said, beautiful and good, but he still cannot agree because the enforceability is not given. We have said that we are still going to make the enforceability. Then he knew nothing more and said he would very much like to agree – but then the Njet came out of Löwelstraße for the entire project. Argument You're not here with sub-areas from the Constitutional Convention! You have prevented this modern constitution for party reasons! That was reality! - We tried! [[Complaints and bravaders in the BZÖ as well as in the case of FPÖ and greens.]] Mr Wittmann, if you come out, wonderful, but you should at least be able to read, because it was not even that this consensus is identical that is true. There were no decisions, but it was said that if we did not go any more, we would agree if everything else was agreed to so that we could achieve an overall solution. That's not even a word-ident! But the SPÖ, with its Njet from Löwelstraße, prevented the total union. Now go here and say about the partial compromise: You have agreed, and that is why, of course, this trigger is now also a consensus!, that is really double-poor, ladies and gentlemen! It's really a staircase! You have to be responsible for not having decided on this modern constitution. To go out here and work with the oblivion of the population, perhaps also some Members, is more than transparent! Be careful that we have democratic states here in the House again, and be ashamed that for party political reasons you have prevented this really beautiful draft of the new federal constitution!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25598	Mr Wittmann spoke on an actual correction. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure and give it the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25639	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I'm actually correcting. Mr Scheibner has claimed that we have rejected the results of the Convention. – That’s wrong! We have recognised the results of the Convention, we have merely rejected the task of Mr Fierce, namely a draft Constitution that was not included in the contract, but we have supported the results of the Convention. [[Violent calls at the BZÖ.]] This includes the Bureau's decision to which you have heard. You have decided as much as Mrs Mag. Glavish, content and indeed! The protocols are not lying.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25712	The last speaker to speak was Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25733	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Yes, an infinite story might be brought to a conclusion today. Actually, today's day should go into history Finally, children's rights could be included in the Constitution. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, he also goes into it: three defeats!]] – This would be a first but important step. Yes, actually, it would be a day for you to write history, not the total blockade of the opposition. [[Abg. Scheibner: The speech has been given to you... Mr. Jewellery...!]] Reject, even if it has nothing to do with the content at all. Everyone just has their little sandy playground: If you don't give me your barn, I won't give you mys! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the BZÖ: That was the cast farmer!]] – On playgrounds this may be a legitimate reaction, but, ladies and gentlemen, we are here in the House! Shina arguments and blockages determine the agenda. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a question of substance here, and this call applies to the BZÖ, to the FPÖ and also to the Greens. Our task is to work under the rule of law in the sense of Austria and in the sense of voters, and not to allow an important topic such as the anchoring of children's rights in the Constitution to become a cheap political show. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] Content, materiality, justice: we owe this to the Austrians and above all to our children, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls for Greens and BZÖ.]] Still you have the chance to put content before personal circumstances and with your voice to go the first step in the right direction in relation to children's rights. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, go this way with us! Meeting You're a bourgeois decision, and stop changing political little money! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25821	Mr Pilz has spoken as a further speaker. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e25864	Thank you very much for the kind welcome! I think we need a new committee of inquiry to find out why, after all the parties have declared, they wanted to agree to the results of the Convention, the results of this Convention could not be decided and its results did not become laws. [[Abg. Scheibner: The herb was guilty!]] The ÖVP was for that, the SPÖ even makes an actual correction and was also for it – all were for it! There has been a 100 percent majority, and any mysterious power in this House has brought down a 100 percent constitutional company. [[Deputies Mag. Stadler and Ing. Westenthaler: The Fierce was to blame!]] Mr Colleague of the SPÖ or Mrs Colleague of the ÖVP! Faith You really think that's what anyone else believes? Faith You really think anyone else believes you're about children's rights? [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Do you think anyone else believes it's about the Constitution? Do you think anyone else believes that this is about Parliament? They from ÖVP and SPÖ are now making a proposal to us. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] We offer you to exchange child rights for control rights. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Exactly!]] – This is really extraordinary [[Call the ÖVP: Blue-Green!]] The opposition should decide between children's rights and control rights?- Oh, my God! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] The only good thing about this proposal is that your draft for anchoring children's rights in the Constitution is so unreasonable from the point of view that we do not have to consider whether children's rights or control rights are more important to us. Of course, both are equally important for Members who take people's interests seriously not only in the SPÖ and the ÖVP clubs, but outside this Republic – and this is what it is all about. We need more rights from Parliament to make better laws! We need a working parliament that is not held at the Nosenring of the Austrian People's Party! [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek:... the Lord Pilz and the Lord Stadler!]] We need a government that is negotiating constitutional laws with the opposition and is forced to respond to the opposition's proposals for improvement! You've noticed one thing today: For the first time, your ministerial blockade and control blockade have consequences. They don't get through anymore! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Today, you have experienced constitutional voting statements, which are a prelude to a future Parliament. This is not a threat, it is a wish for the future. They are now getting to know for the first time a living Parliament that wants to sit down and be able to take a stand if a 26-percent party believes that it can dictate everything to this Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: 35 percent!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] These times, Mr Kopf, Mr Schüssel and so on, are over in this House. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] From now on, there is a Parliament here at an eye, a parliament that cannot be offered by the government parties, a parliament which is clearly different from the state of the SPÖ! And my last hope I want to express now is: The SPÖ also has a chance to recover from this new Parliament. And with this request for recovery, I would like to conclude my brief remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26018	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. First of all, the present referral requests must be put to the vote. With regard to the draft Constitutional Act, which lays down a Federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children, in 528 of the Supplements, there is a referral request from Members Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues and a referral request from Members Bucher, Mag. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen. I shall immediately vote on this draft law to refer it back to the Constitutional Committee in 528 of the Supplements. I am looking for those members of the House who stand up for it to be a sign. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. With regard to petition 19/PET, there is a referral request from Mr Bucher, Mag. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen. If the request to refer the motion for a resolution to the Constitutional Committee is approved, I would ask for a sign. – That too is the minority. That's why it's rejected. Finally, a referral request from Mr Bucher, with regard to request 65/A(E), is to be submitted. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen. I shall immediately vote on the motion for a resolution 65/A(E) to refer the matter back to the Constitutional Committee. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it to be a sign. – That too is the minority. That's why it's rejected. As foreseen in the agenda, we shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. First, we come to the vote on the draft Constitutional Act, which lays down the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children, in 528 of the Supplements. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I am asking those Members who vote in favour of the draft Constitutional Law, with which the Federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children is passed, to cast “Yes” votes, those who vote against, “No” voting paper into the urn. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name. He is then replaced by colleague Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26149	Thank you. The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the scribe and the registrar. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26187	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 168; of which ‘Yes’ votes 100; ‘No’ votes 68. The present draft law has not been adopted with the required two-thirds majority. [[Oje-Rufe at BZÖ.]] Thus, there is no law of the National Council within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulation and bravorage at BZÖ.]] According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bayr, becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plessl, Prammer, Praßl, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, schitzenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Silhavy, Singer, Sonnberger, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger Hannes, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm. Members voted with ‘No’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz; Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jarmer, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Kunasek, Kurzmann; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber; Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Weinzinger Lutz, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Souschill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26393	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues on '6 out of 45', is too little – all children's rights in the Constitution. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 529 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a corresponding sign – that is the majority. Accepted. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 530 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – That too is the majority. Accepted. [[20:34:00]] 41. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (472, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Constitutional Act, the Data Protection Act 2000 and the Security Police Act (DSG-Novelle 2010) (531 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26449	We are now reaching 41. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26476	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The FPÖ is in principle very positive about this DSG-Novelle 2010. Although the demand for an operational data protection officer, which was raised by many sides and which was also an essential discussion element in the Data Protection Council, was ultimately not met, we consider these DSG-Novelle to be a useful development of the previous data protection regulations.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26502	Excuse me, Mr Herbert. May I ask the auditorium to give the speaker due attention! [[The Members concerned shall return to the speaker.]] Please continue with your speech, Mr Herbert!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26527	Thank you, Mr President. . I can refer to the new provisions, namely that now legislation and enforcement on the whole federal matter is that there are improved and more precise rules in the appeal proceedings, in relation to the Data Protection Commission, and that there is therefore an improvement in the legal protection situation. A major innovation is the regulation of video surveillance, where there is a reporting requirement. The regulation of the use of video equipment is accompanied by an accurate determination of the recording and deletion of the data recorded. However – and this is also to be noted here – the decision-making of this legislative matter, as you will probably all know, requires a two-thirds majority, and at this point I may refer to the events in the committee of inquiry, where, as opposition parties, we have agreed that we will not give the two-thirds of the matter an approval in the future, and I think you will be little surprised that FPÖ will also adhere to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26560	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26581	Mr State Secretary! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We now have the first comprehensive update of the Data Protection Act since 2000, which also contains constitutional provisions. I regret that there has been no agreement on this, and will therefore make an amendment. § 1 of the Data Protection Act regulates the fundamental right to data protection. It is a constitutional provision. Everyone is entitled, in particular with regard to respect for his private and family life, to the confidentiality of the personal data concerning him, in so far as there is a legitimate interest in it. The existence of such an interest shall be excluded where data are not accessible to the data subject because of their general availability or because of their lack of traceability. We have changed this provision because of the criticism of NGOs, and I am sorry that there is no common approach here today. I would like to make it clear: This fundamental right to data protection must also be respected and respected by Members of this House. It should not be accepted if a Member of this House, who on the one hand is subject to a surveillance state, on the other hand, seriously violates this fundamental right. Mr Pilz, I think it is unbearable if, in the context of a blog, innocent people are injured by privacy when people who have not been charged with it are being charged to the prangler. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we take data protection seriously, we also need to look at our own areas to ensure that we comply with these provisions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I shall now bring the amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Johann Maier, Dr. Peter Sonnbergerand colleagues: [[Quoted print version removed]] This amendment deletes all constitutional provisions, as unfortunately there is no two-thirds majority in this House. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We will face new challenges with the Lisbon Treaty and with the Stockholm programme, and I hope that at the social partners level, we will succeed in solving the issues of employee data protection, which are becoming increasingly important, so that we can have clear provisions here with an operational data protection officer.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26664	The amendment which has just been tabled is whether its scope is in accordance with § 53 para. 4 Rules of Procedure have already been distributed to MEPs and explained in its main guidelines and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26753	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26774	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In principle, we could agree to this law. I emphasize: In principle! The content is all right, you could talk to us about the BZÖ loose! However, you know that this is a constitutional provision, and as long as SPÖ and ÖVP stand by the opposition here, the BZÖ will not agree to these constitutional provisions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26807	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26828	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! That's your decision, you said, and you'll stick to it. Whether that is also to be answerable is another question! In my opinion, data protection is something that actually affects every citizen. It is thus a fundamental right. There are several problems that you want to solve now. These problems have occurred in recent years in the implementation of data protection provisions. The last novelle dates back to 2000, and therefore a revision and realignment was absolutely necessary. Among other things, the draft law provides for the transfer of responsibility for the legislation and enforcement of data protection to the Federal Government. It is therefore likely that countries will, of course, also be able to save considerable expenditure and costs and improve coordination in the process. Furthermore, it is planned to include the fundamental right to data protection in a linguistically improved form, to supplement the Data Protection Act with detailed rules on the admissibility of video surveillance by private, to improve legal protection by means of a precise regulation of the appeal procedure before the Data Protection Commission, to simplify the registration procedure for data application, and to allow undertakings to provide binding unilateral declarations. At the same time, more stringent sanctions have been envisaged when neglecting the reporting obligation. In the case of video surveillance, according to the draft law, it is in principle subject to a reporting obligation and pre-control and must also comply with the principle of proportionality. In addition, video surveillance installations shall be marked accordingly and recorded data, provided they are not required for evidence or protection purposes, to be erased within 48 hours. – I believe that this too is a very important and essential approach. Each operation shall be logged. Video surveillance is explicitly prohibited in places that are the highest personal area of life of a person concerned and for the purpose of employee control at workplaces. Data may be passed on if there is a suspicion of an act to be prosecuted by the court. The novelle is well prepared and based on practical applications in the data protection area. We have therefore also fulfilled a part of our government programme. There is, in addition, a committee which is mainly concerned with safeguarding the interests of employees in such a way.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26874	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26896	Ladies and gentlemen! That is another example of how you do not come to a two-thirds majority! The Data Protection Act has been reviewed in the summer of this year. Then you haven't heard of it anymore. In November it has the discussions on the Minority rights given in the Investigation Committee. Then the government parties introduced the law in the lightning procedure. But there was again no contact with the opposition parties, at least not with the Greens. And now the law is here! Assuming that we are not first contacted for half a year and that we then stand up and agree, is illusion! This has nothing to do with the question of the two-thirds majority boycott in connection with the investigation committee. Rather, it is politically naïve to believe that this is the way to achieve constitutional majority voting. And the Federal Government knows that! Obviously, however, it was a calculated goal to take a few laws politically to the wall here and then walk around in the public and announce that the opposition is not working properly. We do not agree with the law, regardless of all the boycott calls that may exist somewhere, because this law does not meet the challenges. Private video surveillance is an increasing problem. But what happens in this law? – This law simply legitimizes this wild growth and will not change the problem. This is relatively easy to see when you look at what the purpose of allowable video surveillance is, namely, all legal obligations of care. That is, if I have a house and I'm the owner of a walkway and hang up a video camera to watch the walkway, then a video surveillance is already authorized. Next point: No legitimate interest in secrecy is violated when a behaviour is set which, without any doubt, allows the conclusion that it is aimed at being perceived publicly. So if I go over the Carinthian road, I'm sure that's the case. I'm already setting up a behavior that's not safe. With this in mind, I wonder when this law is still developing a protection at all! Obviously, it has to be filmed into the neighbor's bedroom in order to be protected by the law! Legal protection is written small at all. How someone hangs his cameras is not checked at all. In the construction process, there is a construction authority which controls how to build or leaves a demolition notice. However, everything is different when it comes to video surveillance. No one controls how anyone hangs a camera, and when she's filming somewhere, nobody says it's forbidden. The individual must then run to court and bring an injunction. The legal protection is so bad. In reality, we need an authority that controls and, if necessary, also to disassembly a video camera that films forbiddenly. In this sense, we do not agree with this law. This has nothing to do with the two-thirds majority question in the Committee of Inquiry. That would be an additional argument, but does not take action in this case. To make it clear: If you come in three months and may have been cleared out of the investigation committee and minority rights, you do not need to believe that you will receive our consent without being negotiated. If you come in three months, come in time and negotiate with us! There's nothing at zero! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26962	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure and give it the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e26986	My previous speaker, Mr Steinhauser, has just explained that there is no legal protection and that there is no way to eliminate illegal video surveillance facilities. I'm correcting: With this novelle the legal protection is increased first by the Data Protection Commission, and second, there is for the first time a separate legal regime in § 52 para. 4, according to which the competent authority may express the decay of data media and programmes, as well as image transmission and image recording devices.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27014	Next speaker: Mr. State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27035	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Mr Maier for the actual correction. I would also like to thank Mr Donabauer for the praise for the good preparation. I am happy to share this with the employees in the Federal Chancellery, who have done the main work! But I also thank the constructive statements, at least two of the opposition parties. I regret that the two provisions, on the one hand those relating to the adjustment of competence, on the other hand to the redrafting of the fundamental right to data protection, are not accepted! I think it is good that we will decide here on the points concerning a necessary re-regulation of video surveillance, which we have provided for in the government programme. One more word to the Lord Deputies Steinhauser: The draft has already been reviewed in the previous legislative period, and we have carried out another review procedure in May and June of this year. I think this law has really been very well prepared! On the rules themselves: We all know that in the context of video surveillance due to the new technologies and also because of the fact that such installations can of course be purchased much cheaper than before, a new regulation was necessary. We have mainly focused on the case law of the Data Protection Commission and the data protection authorities. Nevertheless, it was useful to make clear legal provisions here. We have tried – and this was also the result of the review procedures – to find a corresponding balance and balance between the interests of confidentiality, that is, data protection, on the one hand, and the interest of surveillance on the other. It is also defined where surveillance is permitted and where video surveillance is to be identified. In addition, it has been established, especially in consideration of the confidentiality interest on the one hand and the need for surveillance on the other, that video surveillance has to be the most limited means. For example, it has been established that surveillance is permitted where objects are at risk, e.g. in banking branches, but also in the area of protection from risks, e.g. subway facilities or railway facilities. It has been established that there must be no video recording in the highest personal area. In addition, it has been established that no video surveillance of work- The Commission will be able to take part in the debate on this And we also set out in the Committee and informed that discussions between the social partners are to take place in the area of data protection in the field of labour, and that these are to be regulated, because, on the one hand, these are data protection issues, but on the other, they also concern labour law issues and worker protection provisions. We have also determined that within 72 hours there will be a cancellation obligation, with certain exceptions laid down, e.g. if the 72 hours would end on Sundays and holidays. Overall, I believe – I do it briefly – that we have made a very balanced arrangement between the different spheres of interest. We have also established a simplified registration procedure, an online plausibility review, in the sense of administrative simplification. On the other hand, we have also planned to strengthen control by the Data Protection Commission. – I believe that a meaningful solution has been reached here. In addition, we have also made rules on the obligation to provide information in the event of abuse in the sense of the interest in the confidentiality of personal data. I believe that this is, as a whole, a very useful solution to this problem of increasing video surveillance, and I therefore ask for as broad a consent as possible. As I said, I regret that the regulation on the change or clarification of competences and the improved formulation will unfortunately not be adopted.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27093	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I ask the ladies and gentlemen, who, in a larger collection of speakers, show their backs to carry on the talks outside, but definitely stop here! The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27118	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Practice shows that video recordings are used primarily in the private sector for surveillance purposes, and therefore the focus of this innovation is on the regulation of these personal data, which now also regulates video surveillance within the meaning of the EU Directive on which it is based, as well as the previous case law of the Data Protection Commission. Video recordings are particularly protected by data protection law because they often contain particularly sensitive data, both the visible state of health and the sexual orientation or the ethnicity of a person. Video surveillance shall be marked. That's what my previous speakers said. It shall be subject to the reporting obligation. It is particularly important for the business sector that the control of employees remains prohibited. Private video surveillance may be used exclusively for protection and proof assurance. In reality, any objects worthy of surveillance will be legally monitored in the future. In any event, however, it is crucial that this is clearly about the defence of a threatening damage to those concerned. Personally, it is particularly important that the division of competence in the area of data protection be eliminated in favour of full federal competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27157	As the last speaker to speak, Mr Königshofer has been mentioned. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27178	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We liberties reject this law not only for reasons of the lack of two-thirds more, but also because it has a gap, a huge gap in data monitoring. I'll tell you why. A friend of mine, a Mr. Grassmayr, who lives in Tauer in Tirol, has been observing cars driving through the village lately. It is on the one hand a car from Google, but on the other hand a car from the Romanian company Nagy, and these photograph and film the whole place, the streets and the houses and then place the pictures on the Internet. You can look at the website of Nagy! You will also see Vienna street trains. The faces of the people or the car marks are not fogged, everything in these cities and communities is photographed or filmed and placed on the Internet. Ladies and gentlemen, this has made Grassmayr feel disadvantaged in his right hand, has written to the Data Protection Authority and the People's Procuratorate, and after some time has obtained the following letter – quote –: Since in the case referred by you to the Public Prosecutor's Office all the conditions just mentioned apply, the law of the State of residence and therefore Romanian data protection law must be applied in a specific case. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here in Austria! People have a need for protection here in the country! This is a joke if you send Austrian citizens who feel limited in their right hand to Romania to enforce their right there! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, if an English driver comes to Austria, then the Austrian road traffic regulations and not the English road traffic regulations with the left-hand traffic regulations apply to him! And just as it must be here: If foreign companies come here, they must, if they want to film or photograph our streets and houses in the communities and perhaps spy on them, apply for permission. That's the gap that this law has! I would ask you, Mr State Secretary, and the Government, to close this gap within the meaning of Austrian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27225	Mr Magistrate has the power to make a recent actual correction. Mayer to speak. He knows the relevant GOG provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27249	Mr State Secretary! Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker spoke of a security gap. – That is absolutely incorrect! Rather, it is true that the applicable provisions of the Data Protection Act are already making it possible to prohibit such filming. For this reason, the Austrian Data Protection Council...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27278	Mr Maier, this is – clearly recognizable – a speech because you are trying to correct an evaluation. I would therefore ask you either to speak again on a speech or to leave the speaker's seat. [[Abg. Grosz: Or learn how to do it!]] [[Further calls at the BZÖ, including:Or even to leave the house!]] [[21:00:33]] No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote. Firstly, we shall be voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Steinhauser, colleagues, namely the draft federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act, the Data Protection Act and the Security Police Act, 531 of the Supplements, to refer again to the Constitutional Committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this referral request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 531 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Johann Maier, Dr. Sonnberger, colleagues submitted an additional amendment or amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts of the draft law concerned by this supplementary or amendment, and finally on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law contains an amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act as well as to the Constitutional Provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Mag. Johann Maier, Dr. Sonnberger, colleagues have tabled an additional or amendment request. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who join these amendments to give a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I expressly note that the draft law with the adoption of these amendments does not contain any amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act and no more constitutional provisions. It is therefore necessary to adopt the draft law in accordance with § 82 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure only required the presence of a third of the Members and the absolute majority of the votes cast for a decision. We shall therefore vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:03:29]] 42. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (327, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Procurement Act 2006 (532 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27352	We're going to the 42 now. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Hübner. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27380	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! What I brought here is not my speech manuscript, that is no more and no less than the government template with two supplements, namely the comparative text and the explanatory remarks – and that says more than I can say in 3 minutes, namely that we are dealing here with a bureaucratic growth without any equal. [[The speaker holds a piece of paper to the height]] [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] For the fight against corruption, it is very important to have procurement guidelines that allow clean management and procurement. But it is also necessary that these provisions are understandable to the middle and smaller entrepreneurs and can be executed without the addition of expensive lawyers. This has not yet been done, and this is further aggravated, because the changes, although they also understand EU requirements, result in further net pages of around four, which will result in things being further or re-regulated, up to the question who needs to tell the Federal Chancellor. That is why we cannot accept the amendment, although it also contains some sensible and favourable provisions, such as facilitating proof of competence and suitability, and although it fulfils EU requirements. Finally, I can add a special treat, because like all that is to be grown in the form of a law, this bill is to be evaluated in advance – among other things, it is also to be evaluated what impact it has on the persons concerned. Here is an example: ‘Effects on administrative burdens for enterprises: The proposed changes in the presentation of certificates of suitability and the access to documents lead to a reduction in the administrative burden for companies by approximately EUR 12.607,863,70 per year.’ – As calculated, I would like to know. Even better, however, are the “effects on the environment, especially climate impact”. Here's what I'm saying: “The regulatory plan contributes to a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in Austria.” – So just as I just wanted to bring about the prepared convolut of an extermination that I was prepared to produce without causing greenhouse gas emissions, I would like to know – and with that I also conclude my remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27441	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27464	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! I want to join my previous speaker in a moment: I already believe that this draft law contains a number of very interesting points which, of course, also concern environmental and energy policy, because in the implementation of the EC Directive, the so-called ‘clean car’ directive, external environmental costs, namely energy and environmental pollution, are also included in the calls for tenders. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: What, on 70 pages...!]] That is to say, it is now necessary and imperative that technical specifications should also be included in the federal award, which is intended to reduce environmental pollution. I think this is right, and this also has an impact on CO2 emissions – you just have to read it carefully, then you know why. The second point is: Of course, the Federal Procurement Act is also changing because the decisions of the Constitutional Courts and the EU Court of Justice change and eventually the EC Directives are also amended. I have only a few points to make: In particular, I would like to refer to the “Administrative costs for businesses” project. It is only the electronic transmission, no longer the transmission by letter and fax. – These are savings. There is also the self-declaration system: The trader can explain that he meets the criteria, and only when necessary and upon request of the issuer must he provide the appropriate evidence. – These too are cost savings, because he still has to do everything. These are redundancies for the companies. We have stated in this law that this EC Directive applies to the award of services in the field of public transport, so that it will also allow for the direct award of services and the granting of service concessions. In a further step, we have tried to reduce the costs by reducing the costs of combating tendering documents in order to achieve additional legal certainty. It follows the whole implementation of the EC Directive – and I believe that it is a reasonable law that will continue to concern us because it is one of the constant companions of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27499	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27520	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There are four reasons why we do not want to agree to this law, and we have tabled a joint amendment for all four reasons. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Four right!]] We wanted to negotiate this in committee, but that was unsuccessful. The first reason: There is no way to follow the award and procurement necessarily according to ecological and energy-efficient criteria. That is, if any company were to offer ecologically better, it would not be able to object to the application documents and the tender documents, and therefore, of course, the bill is not really acceptable because of our basic ecology setting. The second reason: No one understands why legal representations such as the Chamber of Architects in connection with the review of the tender criteria or their correction do not have the possibility to apply. Mr Jarolim has told us in the committee – he will probably repeat it now – that the representatives of interest are involved in these tendering procedures. – That’s right, but that doesn’t mean that mistakes can happen anyway, and the representations of interest are finally because they represent those who are affected in such attacks. I believe that this would ultimately also save a lot of costs and lead to the award of orders to avoid further errors. Individual providers cannot afford to object to the costs at all, and above all not from the consequences, because it could be quite clear that no orders will follow if they criticize an excuser. In any case, this would be relatively easy to prevent if there were something like an anonymity of competitions, in fact, up to the last consequence. That is the third reason for our rejection, because that is not the case in Austria. There is a nice loophole in architectural competitions, the so-called personal dialogue in connection with the final stage of the competition procedure, especially in the award of construction contracts. What's going on? – Of course, the usual facial control, and then again some friends are taken instead of the young and also very unknown offices that might take on perhaps more qualitative architectural assignments. The fourth reason is the commitment of the independent institutions to the Minister of Economic Affairs to inform practically constantly about everything. We will discuss this again today in connection with the KommAustria Act and have had it twice. In our view, this obligation to inform is not necessary and can always influence the award. I do not know why in Austria it is so difficult to enforce any kind of legal possibility to reduce corruption, the economy of friends and the flaws. I believe that this would provide a way of creating a culture that would, for example, do well to encourage a better, more qualitative construction of a better architecture.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27560	Mr. Dr. Zinggl, I understood you so that you also submitted the amendment to him in the context of this speech. I take note that it is also sufficiently supported and explained in the broad guidelines. It is only so that you did not announce this in the first place, i.e. I have only been able to give the order to reproduce this request. If this does not take place in time, I shall put the vote to a later stage. The amendment is therefore part of the debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27704	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27726	Madam President. Mr Zinggl, the right to award, and in itself, is a great step forward, which was widely negotiated in this House at the time, in order to disprove precisely the concerns expressed by you. It has actually proved itself, and the novelle is necessary, as has already been said, as it is the implementation of an EU directive. On the question of the 25 percent reduction in administrative costs, Mr. Hübner – he is unfortunately not here –: This may be a bit ridiculous for you, but for companies it is essential and also concerns the amendment we have tabled to the Committee, an important point, namely a different form of charging than we have had before. This is wise because it is much more flexible and practical. I would like to draw particular attention to two points. One is the motion for a resolution that we have dealt with in the Committee. This issue of the non-discriminatory provision of public services is an important issue. This will have to deal with the public sector. There are also private providers of such services, for example on the Westbahn. We value it and will, of course, ensure that there is no discrimination, and we also expect appropriate legal proposals. On the question of social partners: Quite frankly, I was originally interested in this matter when I heard that. But there are, of course, counter-arguments that need to be seen. On the one hand, there may be conflicts of interest in the social partners' institutions, because, of course, a company that participates may, or may not, be, but is safe, the competitor of other companies. I wish the representatives of interest, who then have to decide, so to speak, who is, a lot of pleasure! So simple it is not for a representation of interest, because then it is potentially in danger of preferring someone. The issue is also relevant for a second reason, I also say quite openly, because I have always had a problem personally with the association action and what the social partners wanted is actually the first step towards association action. However, we will also have a discussion on this question in the future, and I therefore make the following request in this context: [[Quoted print version removed]] This seems to me to be an approach which will address these concerns, which I understand very well. I think therefore that there is nothing in the way of consent to this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27789	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27840	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27862	Madam President. High house! We welcome the change in the Federal Procurement Act. There is a reduction in administrative costs that is welcome. As far as environmental kindness is concerned, too, there are a number of things that are important here. For example, this “clean car” directive has already been addressed. This “clean car” directive also refers to environmental sustainability when cars are purchased in a tender, and not only, as in the past, to operating costs and the purchase price. In general, it would be beneficial if we were to place more emphasis on environmental kindness in the federal award and the environmental awareness would be the first priority. Why? – If, as a government, we demand from the citizen that he saves energy from having access to installations and devices that are energy-saving, but the Federation does not do it itself, then it is not understandable. If I look at invitations to tender whether this is the simple refrigerator for the ministry or the computer or the server system, I notice that it does not pay attention to energy efficiency, but it is only applied to the purchase costs and other costs, but not to the environmental kindness. The Federation clearly needs to play a role in this regard. [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: Mr Colleague, that's not true!]] - Yes, that's right. Unfortunately, it is. That's why: If you look at street lighting alone or, as I said, the simple refrigerators, even here in the high house, you can see that we are still light years away from the savings targets that we have to achieve if we want to go ahead with good example and if we still want to achieve the Kyoto goals. That is why this law is to be welcomed: because it is a first step. It has not grown on our dung, it is an EU directive, and that is why we should do much more in this direction. We should invest much more in environmentally friendly energies. We should pay more attention to environmentally friendly technologies, and we should also take the second step, namely to ensure that everything from a simple refrigerator to a computer needs an energy assessment and only devices that also save energy and help us to achieve the Kyoto goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27904	Mr Ostermayer, President of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27926	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot about the content of the German Federal Procurement Act Novelle – that we are implementing an EC directive, that we are reducing administrative costs by simplifying the procedure with the contractors' own declaration and so on, and it has already been pointed out that we are making it clear that the EC Regulation is to be applied directly in the field of public passenger transport – I would like to address only three points that have already been mentioned. The first concerns Mr Hübner, who said that you do not want to agree to the law because of its thickness, simply formulated. – This seems to me to be a very delicate argument, because whenever it becomes so to speak complex, it would probably prevent a lot of laws that are reasonably decided here. The second is the following: He asks himself what to do with the many papers and how to reduce greenhouse gases. There seems to be a misunderstanding. The savings in greenhouse gases are, of course, related to the implementation of the “clean car” directive, i.e. the regulation that external environmental costs should be taken into account in procurement operations. By the way, the BBG already provides for the Euro-Emissions Standard 5. On what happens to the paper: So I would recommend – if it is no longer needed – to feed it to the waste paper, in the sense of recycling. This also saves environmental costs, as trees can stand. In addition, we have provided for legislation to be available online; To implement laws in non-written form, this solution simply does not exist. I would just like to say to Mr Zinggl, on the question of the non-nymous, anonymous procedures in the field of architecture: I know from my own participation in several jury meetings that after some time the manuscript is recognized in anonymous procedures. So you can usually - even if you do not stand there, which architects, architects or which team of architects is a design that hangs on the wall - see things as a result. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] I am now bringing another example, because of course you have argued on the question of the access of young architects. In my previous career in Vienna from 1995 onwards, we carried out construction competitions, and it was technically not possible to make any different procedures because it was about proposals in which architects/architects jointly present a project. I'll tell you: Experience has shown that the result was not that young architects did not have a chance, but rather that very many young teams – especially Vienna teams, who were involved in constructions in Vienna, but also Vorarlberger or Tyrolean teams – came to the train. In other words, the question of non-nymity or anonymity does not directly affect it: whether someone wins the competition or not, but it is a question – and this is generally true of architectural competitions – of the position of the jury, which is being pursued, and so on. I have also held long discussions with the Chamber of Architects and with the IG architecture in the context, and we have come up with in the course of the discussion that neither one nor the other prefers one or the other, but that, as I said, it is a question of the jury composition and the position of the jury on certain architectural forms. The question of how to behave in ecology is also important, because of course this was often an essential decision-making criterion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e27995	Mr Jarolim has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28016	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Just a short while to supplement: I think the information to colleagues Hübner has arrived. Overall, we can say that this is an improvement. This law ensures, on the one hand, that, in the context of the award procedure, namely in the case of applications, the full documentation rates which had to be produced in the past are no longer to be submitted, but that one can call for the appropriate skills and qualifications to be obtained and that a follow-up check will then take place in the case of the person who has received the award. If, on the other hand, it turns out that the award has been granted on an unfair basis, the qualifications are not available, there is a possibility of misappropriation with a corresponding claim for compensation – therefore this is certainly an improvement. The fact that the transfer can take place within the group is also an improvement, because this, of course, increases the disposition capacity in companies. That the penalty for undue direct payments has also been increased, up to 20 percent of the sum, ensures that you think very well whether you do it or not. Still on the question of representations of interest before or after the procedure, for appeal legitimation: I think there is a need to be very careful about this – I have also mentioned this in the Committee, as Mr Zinggl has already said. The representatives of interest sit in the federal award Senates and have a seat and a voice there. The same person's right to challenge is simple and simply not possible! I don't think that's all you have to say. I think we are taking a good step forward with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28063	Mr Sonnberger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28084	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The European Commission and the European Court of Justice will certainly take account of European rules on procurement, and there will certainly be fewer bureaucracy and tougher sanctions in the future. Less bureaucracy, therefore, because the aptitude test has been simplified. This concerns the competence, reliability and economic, technical and financial performance of suppliers. It is possible to provide a self-certification, evidence may be required; the presentation is compulsory only for certain amounts and only for the successful tenderer. In the future, there will be stricter sanctions for undue direct payments, which will reach the ineffectiveness of a contract. The amendment also deals with the possibility of making a complete subcontracting within a group and the reduction of the time limits for the launch. All in all, this is a meaningful further development of the 2006 Procurement Act – I am seeking approval!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28126	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. There is no need for a final word from the report. We shall vote on the draft law in 532 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zinggl, have tabled an amendment or amendment. First of all, I would like to vote on the supplementary or amendment proposal and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. Mr Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal on the inclusion of new points 14a, 65a, 75a and 105a. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, Mr Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment relating to Z 107. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote of these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 532 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 71.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wittmann, Mr Mag. Molterer, colleagues and colleagues on the review of tender and competition documents. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 72.) [[21:30:54]] 43. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 426/A(E) by Mr Mag. Ewald Stadler, colleagues on the recommendations of the Court of Auditors on state information and advertising measures (536 d.a.) 44. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 860/A(E) by Dr Günther Kräub, Hermann Gahr, Members of Parliament on guidelines for state information and advertising measures (535 d.b.) 45. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28265	We shall now proceed to items 43 to 45 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28292	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! You really wonder: What's going on with this federal government? What is going on with the Social Democrats above all? [[Call the SPÖ:Nix!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Mission Zero!]] Indeed, it is hardly to believe that you have really lost all shame, and that at a time when 400,000 people are unemployed, thousands of people are in short work and most of these people will probably have no gifts under the Christmas tree for Christmas because they no longer have the money for it. At this time when 1,200 source employees in Linz have been canceled, ladies and gentlemen, and in which there are all these tragic personal fates, go here and advertise millions of euros daily in the daily newspapers to at least in this way draw attention to your unscrupulous policy. It is incredible, ladies and gentlemen, if you imagine that in the supplement of the last “Kronen Zeitung” was advertised on 16 pages – only what this supplement costs with 16 pages is a small asset. [[The speaker gave the above-mentioned supplement of the “Kronen Zeitung” as well as a booklet entitled “Economic Journal”.]] One page in the “Kronen Zeitung” is proven to cost between € 25 000 and € 28 000, ladies and gentlemen. You have to let that break on your tongue. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: colleague, the “Kronen Zeitung”... Value for money!]] If you go here now and even ignore the Court of Auditors' recommendations – the Court of Auditors, the economy, economy and effectiveness that you have called for, ladies and gentlemen – then we know how it is about this federal government. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, by declaring the committee of inquiry as minority law in the future, we shall be relinquishing Parliamentaryism again and again when it comes to what is involved, so that we will not let ourselves be eaten off. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I offer you an offer: You can agree with the request we have made today, and until unemployment in Austria by you and your work – and for that you will be paid! – If you are reduced to an acceptable level, you should refrain from advertising revenue. That would be a moral offer, especially in view of the upcoming Christmas!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28364	Mr. Dr. Kräuber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28385	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It sounds a bit like a wrong world with my predecessor, because normally opposition parties are happy when government parties decide on guidelines for information and advertising, as the Court of Auditors suggests – but this may be due to a bad conscience from the past. [[Abg. Neubauer:... by law! ...Politics! That's Mr. Darabos!]] The Court of Auditors agrees that there should be information, Mr. Cot, and I can tell you: Her party has turned ad in the type “Always again and again Austria!” and has celebrated a ski victory and hoped that it will win anything of reputation. So this has nothing to do with material information, quite contrary to the government's current information measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This concerns not only the FPÖ, but also the BZÖ. At the time, they admitted quite unfavorably: A recognition value of the BZÖ is not bad. I hope that the follow-up speaker then takes a bit of ash to the head and gets shredded, so of course it can't go. So party-political advertising at the expense of the general public, that can't be it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] That is why, I believe, it is a real and important step that these directives exist: only material information, not party-political advertising. I can only be surprised that the parties who, when they were ruling, were strictly opposed to it now in the opposition – so this is really a chuzpe!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28445	Mr Dr. Strutz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28474	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! I'm not going to spread ash on my head, but I'm ready to have an honest discussion. We've been to the government and we've turned ads on. We are now in the opposition, and we are pleased that a first small step is being taken in the direction of thinking about limiting ourselves – at the expense of the Court of Auditors – to massive pressure, and that at least one intends to put material information in the foreground when advertisements are placed on the part of the government. We should be so honest as to admit that all parties – and I say here: all parties – of course, the advertising in the political debate necessarily need to be useful and also useful – one more, the other less. However, we should not pretend to publish information or material information as my previous speaker did. It must be seen that within two months the Federal Government has placed more than €5 million in an advertising campaign, and that simply “at random” before the country elections in Vorarlberg and Upper Austria. The Federal Chancellor's Office, Federal Chancellor Faymann, is leading these ads with 1 million € within two months, followed by Minister Schmied, who then argues that it was school beginning and that on the occasion of the start of the school you have to place many ads. This is only topped by the Minister of Agriculture, Berlakovich, who has applied for the harvest thanks. So what a harvest thank you and a school start have to do with material information from the ministries, I would like to ask you a little bit! However, I would like to point out that this decision has not really been taken into account in the principles and recommendations of the Court of Auditors, because what the Court of Auditors has agreed to - the verifiability of the economy which is not given in this information flood - you are not prepared to do so, but also to establish the effectiveness and control of that by the Court of Auditors. [[Call at the FPÖ:That's how it is!]] We recognize, however, that you at least want to make a correction. We will also review, in a few months' time, whether there has actually been material information in your ads and whether you are prepared to make a contribution even because of the economic development, as Mr Neubauer of the FPÖ rightly advised, in view of the highest level of debt in the Republic, in view of the highest rate of unemployment in the history of Austria and, instead of 5 million euros within two months, perhaps only to place ads of 100 000 or 200 000 euros in the coming months.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28524	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28545	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Strutz knows, of course, that political advertising is necessary. Especially the oranges are the party that really throws millions out, because usually political advertising is also there to present successes. [[Abg. New builder: You don't have one! You're buying public opinion!]] Only, you just turned on ads and couldn't show success. This is the difference to what this federal government is investing in ads. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Rudas.]] A proverb says: Whoever does not advertise dies! – It is therefore logical that the Federal Government report on its successes and that what it is doing for Austria’s population is also appropriate. I'll give you the right to: Of course, one can always qualify political advertising in such a way or so. Finally, it is important that it is also presented. We cannot face the advertising prices of the number of unemployed, Mr Neubauer, of the liberals, because if I look at your ads, I must say that they are not only expensive, but they are also highly tasteless and humane. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] We do not understand this by political advertising. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: didn't the ÖVP Dirty Campaign?]] We therefore take the criticism of the Court of Auditors seriously, and in the end we take seriously what was presented at the time, 2003 and 2005, in terms of criticism of the Court of Auditors, perhaps in part rightly, by deciding on a new initiative. In fact, it is quite strange – Mr Herbe has already mentioned this – that the opposition is just about to stir up and that, if the Federal Government takes the Court of Auditors seriously and its proposals 1 : 1 – in fact 1 : 1! – take over, still practice criticism. This is just as fitting in the strange picture as when the liberals, the Greens and the BZÖlers, so to speak, “hoop on a pack” and vote against the coalition government and, above all, against laws for people. [[Abg. Neubauer: You know very well that this is not true!]] But it's a strange world in which we live now. I think we are taking policy and criticism seriously and, accordingly, we are also taking the right measures. [[Abg. New builder: Do you believe what you're saying?]] Advertising will always be necessary, advertising will always cost a lot of money. It is only always the measure. I believe that with these decisions we also find the right measure to actually represent political advertising seriously and properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28647	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28668	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! To the address of Mr Strutz: 5 million € for two months would not bother me yet. This would be a significant saving compared to other years, for example 2008 where a total of € 35 million was spent on advertising and public relations in the year. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: If you calculate this to two months,...!]] – Converted to two months, it would be a step forward. The point is, I'm not bothering public relations. – On the contrary: I also consider public work from the departments to be necessary, but now the But is coming – in 2000 Black-Blue started with 9 million for public relations. [[Call the ÖVP:But!]] [[Call the ÖVP:But in Schilling!]] – No, €9 million. – In 2006 it was €34 million, in 2007 it was slightly less, €28 million, and in 2008 it was €35 million – the absolute record so far. I already guarantee you today that the year 2009 will absolutely top this record. The Federal Government will not reach €35 million, but it will certainly go towards €40 million. I guarantee you. There you only need to see – in so far as you are of course quite right, Mr Strutz – the advertising campaigns in recent months. The feeling is no longer that the private sector is no longer advertised in the daily newspapers and print media, but only the various ministries are still present with advertisements. I am already asking you one thing – let us try to lead the debate at a certain level: Is this listing “Austria has it better” – that was set at the turn of the year 2005/2006, where it also stands inside: [[The speaker will hold a newspaper board to the height of]] “Seven out of ten Austrians feel healthy” – advertising or public relations? – There are other funny things, but they all have nothing to do with public relations of a resort. There are the good wishes for the turn of the Federal Chancellor, then Schüssel, and the Vice-Cancellor Gorbach. An entire page – was in all media! Is this advertising, propaganda, or is the publicity? – Of course it is propaganda or advertising, but certainly not public work. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - I'm saving the other quotes. I would like to give you a nice example, because it is also relatively large from the point of view “full employment achieved!” – Can you listen to me? – That was in September 2008, the crisis was already in progress and unemployment has increased. [[The speaker holds up a news-based inserat the other day.]] [[Demonstrative applause and bravado with ODP representatives.]] Here you come with such ads! Is the public work, or is the propaganda – still stupid propaganda? I'll give you another example. This was the Minister of Economic Affairs, now the Minister of Social Affairs is coming. What's that? [[The speaker will hold a newspaper inserat, on which, among other things, the then Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger is depicted.]] – An advertisement for the care topic: There is the head of the Social Minister greater than the text. [[Abg. New builder: A footnote of history!]] Do you want to finance heads with public work now, or do you want to announce content? Of course, it's all about the portraits being pictured in the appropriate size. The most problem is, I find, not the text, but where it appeared. This is what we have reached at the Court of Auditors' borders. [[The speaker will once again hold up a newspaper inserat.]] This is the ad campaign of the Minister of Education for smaller classes, because, as it turned out, she has specifically financed “ÖsterREICH” with it and then the “Kronen Zeitung” and “Today” have excited and said: Yeah, are you crazy to give them the money?- Oh, my God! We want to! – And the Federal Minister replied: All right, you'll get large ad areas, too. This competition within the Federal Government continues into the infinite. There's no instance that wants to stop it. And then you come up with seven points of recommendations and think that's enough?- Oh, my God! – This is not enough because there are no criteria that would give an answer, because the Court of Auditors, when he wrote these recommendations, of course did not consider this kind of advertising, because it has not yet happened. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: What about the pickup?]] That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28862	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28969	Next speaker: Mr. State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e28990	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make three brief comments. On the one hand, Mr Ollinger: I share his opinion that publicity is important, also for a relatively simple reason: This simply ensures and simply also jobs of journalists. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Especially in an economically critical situation, which you mentioned, namely that the ratio of ads from the economy on the one hand and the public hand on the other in the crisis shifts in the same way, the different media and daily newspapers also note this. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's incredible!]] If you talk to the publishers of various newspapers, you will hear that too. Secondly, Mr Neubauer has criticised the government's position. . I would just like to remind you that in the Constitutional Committee, Mr Hofer, his colleague, said that all ads recently correspond exactly to the Directives of the Court of Auditors and also to those presented here in the form of a motion for a resolution. [[Abg. May. Kogler: ads from a minister?]] [[Abg. New builder: (keeping an ad in height) For example?]] Thirdly, As a government, we intend to follow both this motion for a resolution and, of course, the underlying recommendations of the Court of Auditors and, in the next few weeks, to adopt the relevant directives in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29063	Now comes Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29084	Madam President. Mr Oellinger, we cannot now analyze every one of the listings you have shown. But what's important? – It is important that we implement a recommendation from the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: Without consequences!]] It is important that taxpayers' money is also used in the information of the Federal Government sparingly, economically and effectively. [[Abg. Oils: Who controls this?]] Mr Neubauer, you are asking: What's the matter with this government? [[Abg. New builder keeps an ad in height.]] – I ask you: What about this opposition? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not want to talk about what we are deciding today. Let us talk about what we cannot decide today! It is about improving the choice of letters that have been tested at the EU election. These should now be extended to all elections. A good thing; we could decide this good thing today. [[Abg. Ollinger: Now?]] But this issue was not on the agenda of the Constitutional Committee because you did not give a two-thirds majority. That means you're blocking to the damage of voters. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have fought for years for these improvements in the choice of letters. Now we could have decided on them, but unfortunately there is the blockade of the opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Download the ministers!]] I'll invite you to: Give up the block and work with you again!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29186	Nobody's reported word anymore. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of the reporting is not required. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 536 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 535 of the Supplements. Mr Oellinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. I will therefore first vote on the amendment tabled and on its rejection of the resolution attached to the Committee's report in 535 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the amendment tabled by Mr Oellinger, colleagues, and others. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 535 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 73.) Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 537 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[21:55:25]] 46. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (471, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the KommAustria Act (538 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29278	We're now reaching 46. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29305	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Act, which amends the KommAustria Act, provides for a supervisory right of information for the top institutions, specifically for the Federal Chancellor on the one hand, but also for the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology on the other, who is empowered to inform himself of all items of the management of the Telekom Control Commission, the Postsenat of the Telekom Control Commission and the Post-Control Commission. The Federal Chancellor, in turn, has the power to inform himself about all items of the management of the Federal Communications Senate. This provision of law is based on a provision of the Federal Constitutional Act, namely Article 20 para. 2 provides for the provision by law of the right of supervision of the superior bodies to be appropriate to the non-wisdom institution, but at least the right to inform itself of all items of the management of the non-wisdom institutions. Further supervisory rights are not provided for. This right of supervision gives us MEPs the opportunity to obtain information from the supreme institutions in the course of the right of intervention. This is a provision which, from our point of view, is to be agreed jointly in the sense of transparency and in the sense of parliamentary control. In this sense, I would ask you to agree to this regulation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29338	Mr Brosz is now speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29360	Madam President. Mr Maier has already pointed out in the Committee that Parliamentary control is possible with this legislative innovation. - That's not wrong. However, this also makes it much more possible. And that is exactly why we Greens do not want to agree to the law in this form. It's about law-free authorities. There is, of course, the question: Should there be the possibility to have access to information? Can these be used, for example, for parliamentary questions? – We suggest that this should also be written into the law. The point is, of course, that, if there is an information right here, a German Chancellor's obligation to inform questions whether this is not clearly more than just an information, but may also be able to influence the authority. Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This amendment would mean that, for the purpose of parliamentary control, there is a duty to inform, in any event, that transparency, which has been addressed, is guaranteed and that it is not possible to actually rule into an independent authority other than the question of what the control should allow. That is why we ask you to join this amendment – as you always put it – and to agree to this reasonable amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29442	The amendment tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29507	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29529	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With the amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act, the constitutional requirements for the establishment of non-wisdom institutions were laid down in Article 20 para. 2 Federal Constitutional Act amended. The Bundeskommunikationsssenat is an article of the German Federal Communications Senate (Bundeskommunikationsssenat) (Bundes Kommunikationssenat) (Bundes Kommunikationsssenat) (Bundes Kommunikationssenat) (Federal Communicationssenat) (Bundes Kommunikationssenat) (Bundes Kommunikationssenat) (Bundes Kommunikationssenat)) (Bundes It shall be established in the highest instance, three judges shall belong to it, and its decisions shall not be subject to the withdrawal or amendment in the administrative field. Article 20(1) 2 provides, in its final sentence, that the law provides for an appropriate supervisory right of the top institutions to be entrusted to the non-wisdom institution, but at least the right to inform itself of all items of the management of the non-profit institutions. This right of the Federal Chancellor stems from its responsibility for execution. The Federal Chancellor is thus empowered to inform himself of all items of the management of the Federal Communications Senate. The Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology will also be empowered to inform himself of all items of the Management Board of the Telekom Control Commission, the Postsenat of the Telekom Control Commission and the Post-Control Commission. This makes it possible to carry out a control of independent organs. The aim is to obtain information on request, but not to influence these top organs. This is not only a formal but a real control option. This is a mandatory implementation of constitutional requirements by the end of December 2009. No execution sector shall withdraw control. This also has a preventive anti-absorbing character. We are committed to the project of setting up an independent high-performance regulatory authority for the entire broadcasting sector, so to speak, KommAustria New, in connection with the reform of the ORF Act, and we expect the support of all political groups in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29571	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29592	Madam President. High house! I would like to join the last speaker: No scope of enforcement shall be excluded from public control. – Mr President, who wrote this speech to you: the Peter Pilz? The Ewald Stadler could not be, but it could be from the Ewald Stadler, at least the sentence: No scope of enforcement shall be excluded from public control. Why, then, does the entire Federal Government withdraw control from the investigation committee? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] He said, please! I'm just quoting jewelry beaters, the hope for the future of the Austrian People's Party. Whoever wrote this speech to you, I don't know – you're not yourself, you've noticed how you've been hanging in part, of course, textually hung. But, ladies and gentlemen, the sentence is right: There must be no scope for public control! – I wrote this down well, I’m going to quote it all the time now. From the ÖVP corner: There must be no scope for public control, because this has an abuse prevention character. I am not quite sure whether the colleague knows what he said, but what a great word: Abuse prevention character. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We also believe that the one who has written this speech to you is right with abuse prevention character, ladies and gentlemen, for – and now I am in the actual law – there are three ways to escape control: One is the authorities with judicial intervention. The second is the escape to the private sector, in the dress of private rights. There has been a massive control deficit in recent years, especially under grass, which I say immediately. This has been part of this aggressive privatisation policy. And the third variant is pressure from the ÖVP. [[Abg. You jokes!]] And then an ÖVP member goes out and says, Abuse prevention character: There must be no scope for public control! – Yes, I always watch! [[Abg. Hörl: At least you'll be careful!]] When a black person speaks, you always have to be incredibly careful because, ladies and gentlemen, the ÖVP always says the opposite of what it does. [[OBJECTIVES]] Therefore, you always have to listen carefully to what the ÖVPlers say: There must be no scope for public control! Public control, my colleague, is also parliamentary control. That would be complementary.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29677	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law in 538 of the Supplements. Mr Brosz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has tabled an amendment to this effect. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by this amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report, with the title and receipt. Mr Brosz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment which refers to paragraphs 1 and 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, and I shall seek a sign from those Members of the House who are voting in favour of it. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:06:51]] 47. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government Template (385b._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Hungary, Romania and the Republic of Turkey on the Nabucco project (525 d.a.) 48. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (475 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Commercial Code 1994, the Law on Economic Loyalty and the Auditing Quality Assurance Act (526 d.b.) 49. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs on the Government template (402 e.g._Other Organiser International tropical wood Convention of 2006 (527 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29770	We shall now proceed to items 47 to 49 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Grastaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29797	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! It's about the "Nabucco" pipeline. This "Nabucco" pipeline will deliver 31 billion cubic metres of natural gas to Europe each year. The management leads through Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and all over Turkey. The present draft law constitutes an agreement between these States on a uniform framework for the establishment and operation of this pipeline. The construction of this pipeline will cost about € 7.9 billion and is operated by Nabucco International Company. There are six participants, including the RWE Germany. The “Nabucco” pipeline is 3 300 kilometres long and, of course, from the point of view of these shareholders, it is a lucrative business, an investment in the future, because, as we know, natural gas needs increase enormously every year. - So far, so not good. In the form of this law one can read that there is no alternative to the “Nabucco” pipeline. – I can imagine this when one takes the law as such, but in general and in general, we see it completely differently, for we already ask ourselves: Is it really right to go as a state of Austria entirely to the dependence on energy imports? We know from the experience of last year with Russia's natural gas that things can rush quickly. The "Nabucco" pipeline will further increase the dependence of third countries and will also devour a lot of financial resources. A fatal energy dependence! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals therefore ask: Could it really be right to continue to rely on fossil energy, where CO2 taxation is already a huge problem in the world today? We liberals see two major points in this regard. First: The FPÖ stands for an energy-autonomous Austria, because we can abundantly use existing resources in our own country. We can force the expansion of hydropower, biomass energy, solar energy and wind energy. And if we support these energies, we can also properly tap the EU's funding pots, which are available. Secondly, We from the FPÖ have already rejected the "Nabucco" project because this project is ultimately also an entry ticket for Turkey to the European Union can – and we liberties do not want Turkey to become an EU member. We do not want Turkey to come to the EU, because Turkey is never a European country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29863	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29885	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Grazauer has said that we in Austria are becoming even more energy-dependent through “Nabucco”. – The exact opposite is the case, Mr Grastaur! With “Nabucco”, we will be much less dependent than we are now, because, as everyone is aware, there is actually only one gas supplier for Europe, and this situation can, of course, improve accordingly with the “Nabucco” project. Together with Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Turkey, we will continue to pursue the “Nabucco” project. There are international forecasts that say that there will be an increase of 1 percent annually by 2030, and that is why it is necessary to act accordingly that this gas pipeline project will be built with a total length of 3 300 kilometres from the Caspian Sea region via this southern cassian line through Turkey to the Hub Baumgarten in Lower Austria. In economically difficult times, it is also good to find an international banking consortium that makes these investments that we urgently need economically. This will bring overall benefits to Europe and, above all, Austria, precisely because of the diversification of supply sources and routes. The amount of investment is, as has been said, very, very high, but on the other hand, it is necessary in times like this. Overall, we will all benefit, as I believe, from this: those who make land available, as well as attractive compensation measures. Finally, this will probably also have a favourable effect on the gas price and ensure our security of supply and thus the overall economic location of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29925	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e29946	Madam President. High house! Minister! We are always trying to sell “Nabucco” as a big throw; it’s also about safety. – But I already wonder where this security is to come from if we change our energy dependence on Ukraine and Russia for dependence on Turkey. Where is this security to come from, if we do not yet know whether there is enough gas available in this region to put pressure on this line at all? In fact, it is not yet foreseeable whether this management will ever be able to build up so much pressure that Europe can be supplied. What's more, Minister: You have assured a long time ago that Austria could very well compensate for a delivery failure, with liquefied gas. At that time you told me, Minister Mitterlehner, that nothing could happen because we had sufficient reserves – and in the worst case, just working with liquefied gas. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: I did not say that!]] – That’s exactly how you said it, Minister! They were there with us at the BZÖ Club and told us so when there was this bottleneck. We in Austria did not need to worry about this, you said. That's why I ask if we don't gain security and if we don't need this security either, as you say: What are we doing this billion-dollar grave for, what are we making these investments for? – In addition, if we know that we have to save 80 percent of CO2 by 2050, as of 1990. That is, in Austria, we will be able to emit less than 20 percent of the CO2 in 2050, which we issue today. If you look at that, you can see that neither gas, oil nor coal have a future. This will no longer have a future if we have to save 80 percent of CO2. And yet the gas supply is being bloated – I am still in the process – although we know that we will no longer need the gas. [[Abg. Riepl: What is the future of your opinion?]] Although we may need gas, we will not be able to use two lines to the extent that we can. This would be just as crazy as if an industrial plant that heats with gas was constantly expanding, and because the gas pipeline is slowly becoming too tight, it is unlikely to take a lot of money into its hands to expand this gas pipeline to a larger dimension, but on the other hand does not make any thermal renovation to save 80 percent of the heating costs. That would be crazy, that wouldn't do anyone – but that's exactly what you're doing now! On the one hand, 80 percent of the 1990 CO2 emissions have to be saved, but on the other hand, a second line is being built for an obsolete technology, which we can no longer use to this extent, because we are not allowed to emit so much on CO2 at all. So that's not future-looking, it's an outdated technology. We need to switch to renewable energy; we need every euro to do so. We need every euro, we have to go from these misdevelopments to renewable energy. We have everything to do with this; Austria could become a CO2 model country. However, the only thing we do not have in Austria is political courage. There is no political courage to do the right things. They promote the old technologies from the ÖVP because OMV and others thereby earn money! That's exactly the background why nothing goes on. Therefore to your address: We need more political courage! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30021	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30043	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gradauer, the fear of death has also died. You can only say that according to your remarks. “Nabucco” opens up new areas of natural gas extraction in the Caspian region, thereby eliminating this unilateral dependence on Ukraine. Even now, at 10:15 p.m., you can say: One and one is two – and one is better on two legs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As regards the utilization of this pipeline, Mr Lugar: There are not any companies involved, but this is done under the leadership of the OMV, and they can really work economically. So I would not worry about the utilization of this pipeline, nor would there be any State money that is being made available for the construction of this pipeline. To emphasize this is also important. Ladies and gentlemen, the approval of “Nabucco” is also not a blow against renewable energy. From the decision that this would be yesterday's energy policy would be impermissible and polemic, because the total energy turnaround, even if one still speaks and looks forward to it, is unfortunately not in view at the moment. We have to deal with the fact that there will be a co-existence of fossil and renewable energy sources. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: How long, colleague?]] By the way, natural gas does not necessarily have to be heated, but can also be refined to higher levels, for example in the chemical industry. We already know that great efforts are needed, and we are all excited about what Copenhagen will bring. We know that we need to reduce the impact of climate change. We also know that prevention is cheaper than curing because prevention is a twenty-fifth of the cost of repair due to the effects of climate change. It makes sense, therefore, ladies and gentlemen – in which we all agree here in this House – to promote green technologies in order to ensure energy supply for the future. It is necessary to work intensively on ecological energy supply in order to promote future technologies that can be job engines at the same time. However, it is also necessary to say a yes to “Nabucco” in the sense of security of supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30094	Next speaker: Mrs Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30116	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) These agenda items deal with three issues. We will agree with the first matter, the present change in the trade order, the economic loyalty law and the statutory audit quality assurance law, as well as the 2006 International Tropical Wood Convention, to which Austria will accede, although it is worth noting here that what is available here is a declaration of intent for the protection of biodiversity among tropical forests for sustainable management. It is very clear here that the rules are very softly formulated that the teeth, the bite is missing in order to actually make a proper execution, but it is a first step. On ‘Nabucco’: Mr Kuzdas, it is not about: fear of death has also died, but it is about something quite different. It's about: Does this investment make economic sense? – This is the central question here. They argue that the OMV is involved. – Yes, the OMV is a leader, the OMV is also pleased with the advertising that it is the leading oil and gas group in Central Europe. Now I'm asking you: In 2009 – we are facing the crucial climate summit – the energy group, which belongs to 31.5 percent of the Republic of Austria, boasts itself, so that they can rely precisely on these two areas!Unknown term type: "%s".? This project includes a total of €7.9 billion – which could be used to invest everything in renewables! I would like to ask Mr Schultes, whom I see sitting there right now: Where would you prefer to invest your private money: in biomass or in gas? That is the question which is quite clear here. [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: The answer is Biogas!]] I think Mr Schultes knows the answer, the clear answer is: Put on the renewable! They are talking about independence and security of supply. – You do not really believe that a pipeline to supply gas from Iran can actually contribute to the security of energy supply in Austria!Unknown term type: "%s".? She won't! In the truest sense of the word, this leadership will only heat up opportunities, visions, money, invest in the wrong technology, and, of course, miss out on opportunities for Austria and for Europe as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30158	Mr Haubner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30180	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Energy security is a need for site policy; I believe that is clear to all of us. In Austria, we have an important treasure with our water supplies, which can already provide the basis for energy security. We have already talked about it today: It is very important that we further expand hydropower, because with this hydropower we ensure security of supply and, of course, also create impulses in the regions for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is very important for the regional economy in times like this. But of course we will not come around to continue using fossil raw materials for our lives as well as for the economy. It is therefore important to build this pipeline. I believe that, as part of the negotiations, Federal Minister Mitterlehner strongly represented the Austrian positions. This Inter-Governmental Agreement, which we decide today, is an important step. We should take this opportunity to take a central step towards the future of security of energy supply for Europe and Austria. We are thus strengthening Austria's economic location, and this is especially necessary in times like this, because with our small and medium-sized companies and especially with the international investors, we must ensure that everyone can continue to rely on energy security in Austria. This security of energy supply – and I will return to the beginning – is a site-political necessity, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30213	Now comes Mr Mag. Widmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30234	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, the question is: Security of supply with this project – yes or no? I would like to mention a few figures, facts and facts which are very questionable, because only to say: We diversify the supply with a second pipeline, then we are sure!, I think, the wrong access. I read in this government paper that Europe's natural gas needs will rise by 1 per cent annually by 2030. There's no alternatives, it's here. – The variant that natural gas consumption can decrease by expanding renewable energies by relying on energy efficiency is not at all present. The so-called zero variant, which is actually common for EIA procedures, is excluded in this template. – So much to this first part. Secondly, The project costs €8 billion, is 3 300 kilometres long – a “luxus line” of which one does not know to this day whether it will also work, whether the gas is present, whether the line along political crisis zones can actually be built; Banks are behind it. So it's really more than questionable. The start of construction has been postponed several times, now it is in space with 2014. 31 billion cubic meters of gas should flow, only then will the project be profitable, and at the start of 2014, Mr. Matznetter, not even those 10 billion cubic meters of gas required for safe operation are secured annually. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You say you set on safe countries, you set on Azerbaijan, you set on Turkmenistan, you set on Kazakhstan, you put on Iran, you put on Iraq. - Should that be safe?- Oh, my God! That's not safe! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another one, Mr Matznetter from the SPÖ: If you are researching in Google, come They insist that much of the gas you want here has already been purchased by the Gazprom again: in Turkmenistan, in Azerbaijan, in Kazakhstan. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's not true at all!]] Check it out! Trust You don't see the government documents that hardly contain any facts, but look at the Internet, there you can read all of this! What remains is this "Nabucco" pipeline – a pure EU prestige project. I understand that government representatives like to drive there, there is a Glaserl sect and probably a bit of salmon, there you can open something there – whether it ever comes about, you don't know – but it will become a billion tomb for Europe. It would not be the first one either, because if you know a biterl, you know that – the BTC oil pipeline from the same room that has been in place for three years is also deficient. "Nabucco" will become a huge billion tomb for Europe. Figures will ultimately be the people in our country who need the energy. Therefore, there can only be one way: to expand renewable energies, to force energy efficiency and to put the money in there because it creates peace, security, creates sustainability and creates jobs for people here. The reverse way would mean to export fossil energies, in foreign exchange through this pipeline, and then to buy CO2 certificates in return, with which, in the end, again – Mr Matznetter – you do not fall into the head, which is true – nuclear power is also being expanded in Europe. To that we say: no!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30295	Mr Matznetter referred to an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the GOG provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30319	Madam President. Minister! Mr Widmann said, among other things, that most of the gas supplies of Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan had been sold to Gazprom. I'm actually correcting: As was directly implemented yesterday by Deputy Foreign Minister Azerbaijan at the Diplomatic Academy, who signed the agreement, not even 5 billion cubic metres have been agreed with the Gazprom. [[Abg. May. Widmann: He tells you the truth!]] This is a tiny fraction of the total delivery volume of Azerbaijan, which is around 60 billion cubic meters per year. Unfortunately, I cannot correct more because of the time, but it would be a lot. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30356	Mr Riepl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30377	Madam President. Federal Minister! From gas to the International Tropical Wood Convention, which is also on the agenda today. If you're researching a little, you'll find in Wikipedia, for example, that wood is one of the oldest and most important raw materials of humanity. The annual wood production continues to exceed the quantities of steel, aluminium and concrete. Every year, about 3.2 billion cubic meters of wood are beaten – the tension is that more than half of them are tropical wood. Greenpeace, for example, reports that in Asia and Africa only about 30 percent of tropical rainforests exist as a result of the robbery of international timber companies. In Brazil, up to 80 percent of the timber impact continues to be illegal, past international requirements and government controls. If you look at all of this, you realize that part of this illegal goods is probably found in our living rooms. The use of tropical wood has been critically discussed in the industrialized countries since 1970. The International Tropical Wood Convention, which entered into force for the first time in 1985, was renegotiated in 1994, extended several times and initialled as a new Convention in 2006. Today, Austria's ratification is on the agenda. One goal – which has already been mentioned – is the promotion of sustainable production and the regulation of international trade in tropical wood from sustainablely managed forests. I personally agree with the colleague of the Greens that the agreement could be stronger, more binding and more effective. But an international agreement is just the sum of the opinions of all who sign it; unfortunately, it is. I believe that this agreement must nevertheless be agreed. The best we could do together would be to abandon tropical wood. That would be the best way to send positive signals on this matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30427	Mr Jury is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30448	Madam President. Mr. Minister! With this “Nabucco” pipeline – the name already says a lot; Prison choir from the opera “Nabucco” – we will go into political dependence, into the political arrest of Turkey, the unstable countries of the South-East European region. This approach, ladies and gentlemen, is a declaration of bankruptcy by the government in energy policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Hornek: I wouldn't say that as a Carinthian!]] Mr. Schultes, you're on the 1st floor. September 2008 Criticism of “Nabucco” has raised doubts about the supply of natural gas. In this context, Commissioner Schultes strongly criticised the gas pipeline “Nabucco” planned by the ÖMV. – Mr Schultes, this is your policy: You just say things, says the untruth, but decided by you something completely different. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Hornek: Oha!]] The Government Declaration in December 2008 requires: Get out of the fossil fuels, out of oil, out of coal, out of gas! – What are you doing, what is the government doing? You build a pipeline, a huge 3 000 kilometer long gas pipeline. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the declaration of bankruptcy of energy policy in Austria! The future generations, the children of our state, remain on the track. If we don't watch, ladies and gentlemen, our globe will crash. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The earth has fever, the earth is overheated – and in this light we build a 3 000-kilometre long gas pipeline to Europe! There you can only say: Good night, Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30528	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30549	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Three issues will be discussed under these agenda items. Two of them are relatively indisputable, so I want to focus on the topic “Nabucco” and find that this is not a “death or” but a “good as well”. As part of the overall energy strategy, we have the objective and also the commitment to extend the share of renewable energy to 34 percent by 2020 within the framework of the climate change objectives. There will have to be very ambitious efforts to achieve this objective. This is quite difficult because in Austria we only have a Danube to be able to represent the possibilities in the alternative area. The total energy consumption remains around two thirds, and it is also about ensuring security of supply for these two thirds that remain. You are aware – at least I suppose – that last winter we had a gas crisis that arose from problems between the two countries of Ukraine and Russia, leading to a supply stop at the pipeline that ends in Baumgarten. Therefore, it is necessary – and the project “Nabucco” has exactly this objective – to diversify both in the area of routes, that is, there will be more pipelines passing through Ukraine, but also in the area of sources. As sources – this has been addressed – we have Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, but above all – not yet addressed – also Iraq. If you look at this in the medium term, the political great weather situation between the United States and Iran could also change in such a way that there is not only an interest in feed-in but can also be realized. I say this in the conjunctiv, but with the others, as we already see with the interested parties, there is certainly the interest to book there so to speak. Therefore: Offer creates demand. A distinction is necessary, however: This is not a project of the State or of the States, but a private-sector financing project. the project, but for which there is also EU interest. As part of the economic programme for energy projects, the EU supports this project with €200 million; the rest is financed privately. What we are doing today is nothing but ratifying the Inter-Governmental Agreement, so to speak, this part of the state, because the management is being laid by the individual countries. The Inter-Governmental Agreement is thereby sanctioned so to speak; everything else is purely private economic performance. Therefore, it is not right that you could simply refunction there: Let's take the 8 billion for renewable energy, and everything has been renovated! – Much of the money comes from other countries and not from Austria. Therefore, the context is a little arbitrary. Mr Lugar said that I would have said somewhere in committee that we would ensure the supply of bottlenecks by liquid gas. – This is only a part of the truth! Liquid gas is important and will become increasingly important, but security of supply in Austria is reaching us because we have huge storage capacity. As part of these storage possibilities, we can cover about half of the needs. We need about 9 billion cubic meters a year, half of which we have in storage. Therefore, the probability – if something happens again – that we can survive at least the winter months and last year without problems is very great. However, I can report that the latest news from Ukraine – you probably read it yourself – is relatively positive: Payments for the next month could be made, so security of supply will be guaranteed at least until January. ==References== Januarys are elections in Ukraine, so you don't know exactly what else could happen there; but that's also conjunctiv. In any case, we are well equipped to achieve security of supply in Austria, and we also have the best prospects with this project. That is why what I said at the outset: It is both a matter of enlargement, which is what is happening to renewable energy, a matter of “approaching” the climate targets and, on the other hand, securing supply in Austria. I therefore ask you to support this project accordingly. As always, a residual risk will remain with all projects. But I am sure that the planning requirements are such that the offer will also be accepted accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30620	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30641	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is a good thing that we are dealing here today with the International Tropical Wood Convention and at the same time the climate summit is going through the stage in Copenhagen, because the original forests are to a large extent responsible for our climate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner]] [[Abg. Petzner: Please do not talk about climate protection; you have failed grandly!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Far-distance travel should not be done, it has once been said, Mr. Colleague!]] Originally, the previous agreement and the current agreement were primarily concluded for the sustainable use of timber from tropical forests. One of the objectives is to preserve biodiversity. Another goal is to protect the affected population in these forests, to safeguard the interests of these countries. I believe that this is a very important point and that this is still not really being fulfilled. In this context, I would just like to mention a group of people, namely the natives of the Indonesian part of Papua New Guinea, who are extremely vulnerable to existence. The term sustainability comes from the forestry industry. And it has already been very interesting to hear in this context in recent days that in Copenhagen Austria, Sweden and Finland have been set up by NGOs because they operate sustainable forest management. [[Abg. May. Brunner: No, not!]] The fact is that if Austria withdraws wood in the context of this sustainable forest management, it should be considered negative. Austria should also be considered negative, for example, if there is a storm damage, even though Austria has to cope with this disaster anyway. I really don't understand that colleagues from this House can also carry this along and, more or less, lead the term "sustainability" ad absurdum. Because CO2, which is stored in the wood, is still free whether you use the wood as a renewable energy or whether it rots. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] So obviously it's preferable to you, we don't use this wood and use oil for it and emit double CO2. [[New call of the abg. May. Brunner.]] This must be explained to someone, namely, that such responsibility is also displayed by politicians here in this House and that Austria is therefore being given a prize with its sustainability. I say to us: We stand for sustainability in all areas of life.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30739	Mrs Hakel has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30760	Madam President. Federal Minister! Especially in the cold season, which I hope will come soon, we will soon be aware of the importance of the debate on the future of energy in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: 20 degrees minus come, Mrs. Colleague! The weather crash!]] The discussions on energy and heating costs have been a permanent burner for years; unfortunately, in Austria, sustainability on energy issues is not yet discussed in parallel. It is clear that in the long term, Austria needs to significantly expand the first steps already taken towards renewable energy sources. In the meantime, of course, the implementation of the “Nabucco” pipeline project is all the more welcome. In the transitional period, during the time of the departure from fossil fuel and the transition to renewable, sustainable energy sources, a relinquishing of natural gas is not possible, would even be wrong. Especially now, since we all know that the CO2 balance in our country is unfortunately still not the best, and if it remains that way, a reduction in CO2 emissions must be ranked first. The Minister has already mentioned this today, and we all remember very well the events last year when gas prices in Austria increased, as gas supply via the current pipeline via Ukraine has been shut down. The complete dependence on this pipeline can be mitigated by the “Nabucco” pipeline. This especially protects the consumers in Austria, and it depends on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30810	Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30831	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I expressly welcome this agreement with Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey, and I will also justify it. In this agreement, we not only regulate the construction of this pipeline, but also the operation, taxation and collective bargaining. This agreement goes so far, and I think it is truly welcome. And if we already lead the gas pipeline from the Caspian Sea to the South Caucasus, which Turkey leads to Lower Austria, this not only brings security of energy supply for Austria, but Austria thus also strengthens its turntable function and can also minimize the dependence on Ukraine – that has already been said. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Global networking!]] Only on the verge as a comment, because always over the fossil raw materials is smeared: Mr Lugar, you are a technician and know what a gas turbine is. What do you think about how much CO2 savings a gas turbine brings? – I can tell you: The strongest gas turbine saves 43 000 tons of CO2 annually. If that's not a pro for the agreement, I don't know. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I'm asking for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30872	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30893	Madam President, Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to refer to item 48 of the agenda, the Federal Act, which amends the trade regulations in 1994, the economic loyalty law and the statutory audit quality assurance law. From our side, yes from the whole house, there is broad consent to this. It is important to further develop the industrial system, and to this development there are proposals from the dental technicians, from the mass hours – proposals that I strongly support. The task of an active economic policy and the trade system is to strive for fairness in competition, as well as a high level of training; I would like to mention the dual training system in particular – and the New Secondary School will facilitate this. Fair conditions mainly benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. Especially in these establishments, a large part of the workforce is active. A huge part of the innovations taking place in Austria are carried out by small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, I would like to say: The economy needs clear and up-to-date rules. The current economic and financial crisis under which we all suffer with clear international regulations in no way adopted this extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30935	Mr Hörl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e30957	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Unfortunately, we still rely on oil, gas and coal in Austria, as only 11 percent of the energy comes from hydropower and 16 percent from renewable energy, i.e. about 27 percent, and that is still too low. Our commitment to cover 34 percent of renewable energy by 2020, Mrs Brunner, is genuine, but it should be our common objective to increase this share of energy production much more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] To this end, we should also keep our environmental bureaucracy, Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker, in focus, and not on every occasion when we want to build a new power plant. call. But in order to keep the stove warm and the light on by the time we no longer need fossil resources, we must also work on the security of supply with fossil fuels. By opening a new corridor for gas supply from the Caspian region and the Middle East, we make a valuable contribution to the security of our region's supply, but also Central Europe. The security of supply, as we saw only at the turn of the year, is the energy “Achillessehne” in Europe. Austria is a hub in European gas supply, and I am not worried about the utilization of the "Nabucco" pipeline. There, merchants are employed in the international consortium and no BZÖ politicians are driving the whole federal states to the wall. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Natural gas is an efficient energy source. A fifth of Austrian energy is generated from it. It scores with minimal dust and soot load and low sulphur content. In contrast to other fuels, natural gas emissions are almost dust-free. Gas-powered cars do not emit fine dust. And even when heating, the exhaust gases contain only a fraction of nitrogen oxide and fine dust emissions. I think the construction of this pipeline makes sense. We create an additional possibility. And natural gas, if we look at that, is the least evil. It warms and gives light. We wish for this since the Stone Age and not just in Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31021	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31042	Madam President. Minister Mitterlehner, thank you for celebrating your birthday with us here in the House! Congratulations! [[General condolences.]] What a better thing there can be than to celebrate his birthday together with us! On the comments of my previous speakers only a few brief comments. Mr Widmann has been easy to google. Mr Graelänge von der FPÖ has in principle: Fear of foreign gas. And colleague Lichtenecker has omitted the substitution possibilities of coal and oil by natural gas. I think that this debate very precisely shows that it needs several legs on which the energy policy of the future must stand – and the Nabucco natural gas pipeline project is one of these legs. We must not play out security of supply against renewable energy, energy efficiency and climate protection, but must pursue the ambitious goals set by the Federal Government jointly and persistently. We all know that energy scarcity and lack of security of supply lead very quickly to excessive energy prices, which in turn, in particular, to feel the socially weakest consumers, but also the domestic economy. Therefore, social security is also a social issue for social democracy. We need to see ecological responsibility and social justice linked. In this sense, we support this project and believe that security of supply in the sense of the Austrian economy, the Austrian jobs and the Austrian consumers must be guaranteed in the long term.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31094	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31115	Thank you, Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Mrs Lichtenecker, thank you for this ball, if you ask me what I would rather: Biomass or gas? I can only say: Biogas. Thank you! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] Unfortunately, the colleagues from the Chamber of Labour are a major obstacle to development, but perhaps it will be possible to convince even these rulers. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] On the comments of Mr Jury. I am very pleased that you are studying my press releases. You'll get rich profit from it, and sometime you'll really know if you don't, then ask me. If you quote, don't talk about untruth, but quote completely! - Okay, good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about “Nabucco” and a state treaty that sets out in agreement what individual countries are willing to grant to this consortium. That's all it is. We have no influence on what is happening in Turkey. We don't know how the pipe is filled. We only know what happens to us. Not even the OMV is as sure as it will work with the filling, because “Nabucco” is first built from Austria to Western Turkey, then filled with gas from the Turkish gas grid. Only later is further built in regions where you may get other gas. With us in Austria at least this line ends in Baumgarten. Baumgarten is a natural gas field that is quite empty. And the energy industry or the natural gas industry is always talking about how climate change can be countered if it succeeds in repressing CO2 from the energetic use of natural gas back into the warehouses or into the earth, so that it is not climate harmful, but comes back where it comes from. In Baumgarten you could do that. There's an old gas storage place. And the 120 million cubic meters of natural gas, which are already being burned there every year to continue transporting natural gas, bring relatively much CO2 into the atmosphere. In other words, the urgent call must be: If “Nabucco”, if Baumgarten, then the pressing of carbon dioxide into the former deposit. Then you can talk about the future with the rulers. I would like to point out the following: The transport of natural gas in Austria consumes more energy than the entire federal railway and charges our CO2 balance with 575 000 tonnes of CO2. The issue of natural gas is therefore a sensitive issue. It may be clean in the combustion of the customer. But everything that is before is very worrying. That's why we need to be careful. [[Abg. Bookers: You don't agree!]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, “Nabucco” is a subject. What we do from it is our topic, and reliability must be ensured by others. Dear friends, that's how it looks. Please read my press releases more precisely! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31182	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the proposal from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreements with the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Hungary, Romania and the Republic of Turkey on the “Nabucco” project, in 385 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the trade regulations in 1994, the economic loyalty law and the statutory audit quality assurance law, together with the title and receipt in 475 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: International tropical wood Convention of 2006, in 402 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs, according to which the National Council approves amendments to the present State Treaty within the meaning of the nature. Paragraph 50 2 Z 1 B-VG retained. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – That is unanimously accepted again. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 B-VG, that the Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish language version of this State Treaty must be made known by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, Family and Youth. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:59:22]] 50. Point Report by the Committee on Tourism on Amendment No 897/A(E) by Mr Maximilian Linder, Mr Gabriel Obernoster, Mr Heidrun Silhavy, Mr Mag. Roman Haider, colleagues on attracting and forcing school skiing courses and winter sports weeks in schools (546 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31289	We'll get to 50. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31316	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I really want to express my pleasure at the fact that a unanimous request has been made in the Tourism Committee. You know what it's all about. It is about activating the winter sports weeks, the school ski lessons. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We know that Austria is – I think I do not need to explain – a hearty tourism country. Thank God has not broken into the economic crisis of tourism. Nevertheless, it is important that we look into the future and that we keep it that way for Austria. However, we also know that Austria has around 125 million nights, half of which are for winter, and we know that winter sports for Austrian tourism, as has been said, is an economic main factor and is therefore also very important for the labour market. If we see that since 1995, we have lost 90 000 students who have been in school skiing courses or have come to winter sports venues, we know that we must do something in this area, because as a winter sports country, as the Alpine country, we know that we must not neglect this for our youth. But we also know that tourism and especially skiing and winter sports are also a very expensive sport, which is why many young people cannot afford to participate in winter school courses financially. It is therefore good to start activities in this direction by the Tourism Committee, through the relevant ministries, but also through the private sector, so that even those who are not financially strong can attend these courses. And it will be a challenge for the lift operators, for the equipment companies and for the accommodation companies to link offers for our young people, which are really affordable for everyone. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] And that, as I have said, the tourism industry will do just as I have mentioned it before. [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] In this area there are also countries of the heart, which from the public side are very much under the arms of the customers. For example, Carinthia has been providing lift cards free of charge at school ski courses for two years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This example should also be followed by other federal states. In fact, all federal states should provide free lift tickets for our students. We will try to bind up a package in connection with the economy so that school-school courses are again adopted, because we know that this is not only good for the economy, not only is it good for tourism, but many studies also show that the students who attend winter school lessons or have made winter sports weeks are more powerful, feel better involved in society, so there is no class difference, which is very beneficial for the community and youth. I would also like to thank the Committee for its unanimity and hope that this unanimity will go beyond this today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31375	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31396	Mr President. Minister! High house! I am also pleased that it has succeeded in making a five-party proposal, and the Green Group, after amendments, can now go along with this proposal. Mr Obernosterer has already done so, in the last ten years, a third of the students have participated in school scholastic courses, for a variety of reasons. But on the other hand, studies and studies have also shown that young people continue to enjoy this sport if they have actually made friends with this sport from childhood. That means it's a certain bond. Of course, it is desirable that young people get to know and learn many sports. I think you have to say that, too, because this is also a security aspect, as you then practice sports. When you learn it from a little on, you usually control it better. It is especially important that you have learned it and not teach it yourself. The second point, which is still important to me, is that there are offers in all the federal states. Mr Obernosterer, I could also mention an example from Styria, where free school courses are now offered for five regions. That is, there are efforts in all the federal states to get young people back to school on the shipists. And I think it is very important that the private sector is really involved, because it is not just about students in Austria. I was very pleased when I read that a German gymnasium for school scholastics also advertises here, namely, that it is said, these are the times that actually remain most remembered by the whole class event, which can also convey a mutual feeling and a shared feeling and also convey the social feeling for each other very strongly. But it also says, of course, that if 10 percent of students cannot participate, for organizational reasons such a school week cannot take place, by the way, one that takes place in Austria. I therefore think that the very aspect of the feasibility and the offer is also something that the economy must now also look at, that it should be removed from its own side. In order to be able to use these services by the schools and the pupils. Then it will be a positive result for all.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31442	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31473	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Jarolim, Mr Petzner may be coming out of here. High house! It's 50. Agenda item. It's a five-party request. I'll do it briefly. – In 1980, there were still 250,000 children who had learned skiing through a school ski course, and last year it was only 150,000. On the one hand, the reasons are that there are fewer children, but on the other hand that the children with migration background have no affinity for skiing. Therefore, it could even be a contribution to integration. A second important point, which is why so many students no longer learn skiing on a school ski course, is the costs that my two previous speakers have addressed and which are really a factor that is not to be neglected. As a father of three school-based children, I know very well, also as a parent, how important it is – and this is also my request to the Federal Government – that in this area all initiatives are also supported by the Federal Government, initiatives of parent associations, of schools, of the countries, of many companies that are really trying to make winter sports for the children, for the schools, especially for the socially weak with good actions again. And from this point of view, my call to the Federal Government: Please support, even in the future, such initiatives!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31507	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31528	Mr President. Estimated Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! A five-party proposal is of course a wonderful, beautiful thing for a committee observer, which I look forward to. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] That the Franz once applauds me and agrees with a Carinthian, that is also beautiful. I think it's important that the children here learn to practice sports again. A lot of things have already been said. I am only sorry that many schools prefer to go to Croatia on summer sports weeks rather than use the offer here. That is why I believe that this proposal is important and good. However, I am also pleased that we in the Tourism Committee have a good cooperation that we all know, regardless of the small party slippers, if we want to bring something to tourism, then we need to work together and make five-party requests. I am also pleased that in the near future we will deal with the bike take-away, initiated by Mrs Moser. But I am also pleased that together with the communities we will try to carry out the advertising line. That's why I think we should stick to this: Cooperations, looking to each other in the future, we will also succeed – we have noticed today, it is money for the gay marriage there – to avoid 10 million € for the Austrian advertising. Minister, a project for the future! Then it'll work. We are looking forward to this, and I am looking forward to the next committee meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31573	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31595	Mr President. Minister! High house! We discussed this in detail in the Committee and, thanks to the welcome of the other political groups, it was also possible for us to accept this request. I can remind you, however, that we have fought hard for the fact that winter sports are a matter of weeks, although my previous speaker and the previous speakers have consistently spoken about skiing weeks. We have made a pedagogical request from this “railway support application”, a request within the meaning of our children, namely a request for support for sports activities. [[Abg. Hörl: Do we have an enemy image again?- Oh, my God!]] An essential aspect for us is the fact that children of a school class who participate in such a week together benefit enormously. Educationally very, very important is the exchange with the teachers, you get to know yourself under different circumstances than is the case in school. And therefore it is a matter of course for us that we support sports weeks, especially in a winter sports country also winter sports weeks. However, I should like to point out the problems that we are encountering in practice. It is a fact that not only children with a migrant background are no longer able to participate, but also local children are increasingly unable to participate, partly for financial reasons, partly from others, and we already have a lot to think about. Free courses and support for the purchase of appropriate material are certainly a way, and the cable car industry is of course extremely required to create appropriate conditions here. [[Abg. Hörl: Do we have an enemy image again, right? The rich cable car!]] The fact is that our children have too little movement, and the fact is that in this area we have to do very, very much to increase the attractiveness of such weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31655	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31676	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We have heard today, we have a decline in the number of winter sports weeks, we have enormous losses. We know today that 37 percent are due to demographic development and the remaining 63 percent have shifted in the summer. In return – thank God! – the winter nights are much better developed – they have tripled! – and winter tourism has a share of 4.1 percent of GDP and a total income effect of €11 billion in value added. With regard to cable cars, hotels and gastronomy, 250 000 jobs are created and a total of over €1.8 billion is paid in taxes and social taxes. Winter sports weeks are healthy for the youth, sports holidays in the mountains is something very positive and valuable. On the other hand, these winter sports weeks are crucial for the future success of our industry. What Hänschen doesn't learn, Hans never learns – this saying is still true today. You do not need to worry, Mr Walser, because the cable car industry is already doing great things: In Upper Austria, in Styria, ski passes are free, in Tyrol it is similar. Where this is not done, there are 5 € daily tickets. In Carinthia and Salzburg, we have already heard, there are reduced tickets or free tickets for students and during winter sports weeks, and also Vienna is strict: Here is a package of € 5 for the day where bus transfer, shoes, skis, the lift card and even the ski instructor are included. So what are the problems that lead to a decline? – Children with migration backgrounds, lack of relation to snow sports, religious backgrounds, coupled with the regulation that two thirds of students have to agree in one class – that is too high. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: What are those religious backgrounds?]] But above all we need a contact person, one who cares, not with regard to “eager ” pangs, but one who takes care of all these things. And in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Education we need a contact person who, together with us, develops these winter sports weeks. Dr. Redl, who was a very strong partner here, unfortunately retired, and the department was dissolved. So we are helping together – and I am also grateful for the fact that we have done something unanimously in the Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31713	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31734	Mr President. Federal Minister! A very important reason for the fact that skiing is still one of Austria's most popular sports is the early learning of sports also in schools. School ski lessons are hardly to be thought away from the Austrian school day. The tradition of spending a week with his class in the mountains is a good and important one, both for young people themselves and especially for our domestic economy. I myself come from a region that is known for skiing not only because of the Schladminger Nachtslalom, but also in which many children and young people try the boards under the feet of the snow for the first time each year. This tradition should continue to be maintained in the future, especially in order to show young people how beautiful movement and sport can be. At a time when we are more and more sitting in front of the computer and causing damage to the attitude of the school bench, such school sports events will become even more important. Getting to know his boundaries, having fun in a group and playing sports while enjoying the beauty and diversity of nature in Austria is a unique experience. Tourism is also aware of the enormous importance of these sports weeks. Every student who has not been on the slopes at least once during school will be a lost clientele for the future. In this sense I wish you all a wonderful winter season and above all no neck and leg break at the first descent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31773	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31795	Mr President. Federal Minister! I am also pleased about the five-party proposal, which allows young people from the cities to enjoy the school skiing course. Only one thing is important to me: the question of finance. In Carinthia we have already been implemented – we have already heard this today – and in other federal states that students can use the lifts free of charge. We used to handle it so much that if a youth could not afford a ski course, a sports week or a trip, we would have put the money together. This is, of course, difficult, but we think that the common interest of young people is in the foreground here. We from the federal states certainly have it easier to go skiing, as we have the mountain at the door, so to speak, and of course, skiing is cost-effective for us. But especially the young people from the cities should be able to enjoy this, and that is why this proposal is going in the right direction. This is a great request, and in the tourist regions a corresponding impulse is set. It is not only that the high season is affected, but also the low seasons, at the end of February and also March, in which the school ski courses take place. This is a good way for the future and for our youth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31847	Mr Pack is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31869	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! All that my previous speakers have said is to support: School skiing courses, winter sports weeks promote the health and social competence of our children et cetera. My previous speakers have already mentioned all the essential points, and since colleagues from other federal states have made advertising for their own state regarding these actions, I have to do so, of course, for the country of Styria on this pult. The country of Styria has also launched initiatives here by the tourist representative Hermann Schützenhofer, who is responsible for tourism... – No, that's not true, not tourist regions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I'm the chairman of a tourist region, I know what this is all about. This is paid by the State of Styria with the local companies. 1 million € will be made available to enable pupils to stay in the Styria. It should also be mentioned – I believe that this is also essential – that there should not only be a free ski pass in the context of such actions, such support, but also – and this is important to me – as the Styrian teacher should support when it comes to organizing a winter sports week. This too was often a cause for inhibition, so to speak, that one does not make a winter sports week, because many who should take on this task have said: That's too much effort for us, that's too much trouble, too much risk! Here again, in particular, Styria tourism helps with a one-stop shop to provide the teacher with great help. In this sense – my previous speaker Franz Hörl has said it right: What Hänschen doesn't learn, Hans never learns – the winter sports week is very important so that itself the young people can work in our ski resorts.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31920	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31941	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to go seamlessly to what my previous speaker said. It's right, and many of us who were once on a week of skiing will remember this: The sportsman was actually only the second part. The social contacts one has connected there, what one has experienced, was actually the decisive thing, one has to say, if you remember. This is also the essential thing, because this is happening in teaching, in a class community. It is important that our Minister of Education has recognized the importance of taking action here, because there is still someone who is organizing it, and that is now the teachers at the schools who also need training. This makes the educational universities very good with their priorities, but also the teachers who need to be motivated to do these things again. I felt it most clearly, as under the era Elisabeth Gehrer once the whole federal state, all teachers, no matter what color, have decided to discontinue all the services they provide voluntarily. The pressure that has come from the tourism sector was the strongest, because, of course, if teachers do not make this voluntary work throughout the world, the most noticeable damage is caused. It is therefore important that it is also clear here: We need this cooperation, we need this motivation – and it often seems to me to be too short to discuss this issue. It has already begun – and this is also an important area in the new teaching work of the Minister – already in the public schools, where you are now introducing school-focused sports days, so that you can make contact there so that migrants' children can already have contact with our sports, with the winter sports, and that these things are also made very targeted. I believe that only together, namely school and the economy, can be successfully taken along this path, and we must do everything we can to ensure that there are no social exclusions. It must be possible that every child – no matter what layer it comes from – can participate in these winter sports weeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e31979	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32000	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! These ten positive statements on this item reflect the common will behind this decision to give more opportunities to the human development of our youth. Although human development is generally understood as a lifelong process today, hardly any other phase of life is marked by progressive change as that of youth. Common school events are of great importance here. This is demonstrated in many scientific studies. For this reason, consideration should also be given to the promotion of school-school courses and the winter sports weeks in schools. The first priority is: Collecting body and movement experience, strengthening group feeling and class community, achieving achievements, experiencing ventures and adventures, building and strengthening self-confidence. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Together with the federal states, the tourist regions and the economy, school events can make significant contributions to winter tourism and be an important building block for the future of these tourist regions. Some examples have already been made. I also read last week that the country Oberösterreich provides free lift cards for multi-day winter sports weeks. The fact that the students of today can be the guests of tomorrow is likely to be the reason for this wide view. Thank you for this joint decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32045	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 546 of the Supplements. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 74.) [[23:24:47]] 51. Point Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Barbara Prammer, Fritz Neugebauer, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Herbert Scheibner, Dieter Brosz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975) (492 d.b.) (Second reading)............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 52. Point Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Barbara Prammer, Fritz Neugebauer, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Herbert Scheibner, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. (Second reading).............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32125	We come to the debate on points 51 and 52 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32152	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There are two regulatory reforms that we will now debate and vote. One is a formal decision. You can leave it like that. This is also a five-party proposal, where everything that has appeared recently and needs to be rehabilitated in the Rules of Procedure is now also being rehabilitated. The second area is the re-regulation of dealing with Europe issues. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] There are two aspects: The One is that you can probably learn that, even if a president – at the time Andreas Khol – has an idea, a Rules of Procedure should not necessarily be designed as a President wishes or dreams. At the time, we had set up a regulation which meant that we should keep Europe-hours in such a way that, with now five political groups de facto, there should be five urgent questions in one day in a row on the subject of Europe. We had this once, and after this one attempt, which we first fixed in the Rules of Procedure, there was the general realization that one cannot actually do so. Since then, it has been in the Rules of Procedure – it has only done no more. And now the thing is being rehabilitated, which is supposed to bring with it a lively Europe debate, where Europe's issues can be more discussed here in the house. But it is an essential manko to mention – and this is also the reason why we do not agree to this change – that – and I very much regret this – one has not had the courage to say: If the criticism is that Europe's debates involve far too few European aspects, then we will open these debates and let the European Parliamentarians participate. At first there were also votes by ÖVP and SPÖ, who voted in favour, particularly the top candidates for the European elections. However, it has not succeeded in bringing this to a joint decision-making process. We will continue to hold the European debates in plenary, not in the main committee, but in the plenary session, so that European Parliamentarians or representatives of European institutions are not invited there. I am afraid that this will lead to another debate similar to the one we have before, namely a very internal-political debate, and that what would actually be the wish of us to think beyond the edge of the plate will not happen. I regret that we were the only ones who have insisted on it, and it is not enough for European Parliamentarians and our representatives to speak. I hope it will still be better than the one-time Khol trial, which ended with the fact that everyone in the couloir outside said: That is the way to make Europe's debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32209	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32246	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A few sentences at an advanced hour in the near future. Mr Brosz has pointed out both points, and my two colleagues will still address them, both to the Federal Parliamentary Committee and to the European Parliamentary Days. Both reports are good reports, but we still have some points to change which we have taken together in the interests of the House, but also in the interest of the political groups, and I can invite you to do so. I believe that the President-in-Office has already planned an appointment. We don't stop anything – let's do it! Perhaps in a few months we can make other good decisions here. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32287	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32310	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, these amendments to the National Council's Rules of Procedure are aimed at increasing the weight and regular treatment of EU issues. To this end, we have agreed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to recast the provisions concerning the discussion of EU issues. On the one hand, the main committee will be upgraded when EU issues are discussed, and on the other hand, the discussion of EU issues will take place in the regular plenary sessions of the National Council in the future. That is to say, there will be current European hours as well as EU declarations by members of the Federal Government with subsequent debates. That is why we very much hope that the issue of Europe will also be given a higher priority here in Parliament. On the other hand, the amendments before us are necessary adjustments. These proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure do not change much, but they are necessary and meaningful amendments, which we naturally welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32340	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32390	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pendl, to speak with your words: “What prevents us from going on?” – I have to say, unfortunately: Among other things, you'll stop us! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] We cannot do this because – you know it, and unfortunately you had to deliver this sad message – the work in the Rules Committee was interrupted or interrupted, and you know it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sankt-Nimmerleins-Tag!]] We have worked really well and very constructive there, as opposed to the last legislative period. Finally, the two proposals or the two proposals that we will decide today in second reading – and we will both give our agreement – show this too, because last time, the work has been terminated after a short period of time, because we have seen that there is no agreement, dear colleague! – He was excited about me talking so often and he didn’t. Dear colleague, you have to complain to your clubman, maybe this will change. [[in the direction of the Abg. Gritish]] Mr. Pendl, you know very well: It was totally unfounded! Now as a return carriage for the rejection of the opposition to give, use and say the consent to constitutional templates: But now we are no longer working in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, because we are offended!, is really not adequate. We have said that, of course, we are also working on the matter in the Constitutional Committee, but there is no decision-making. [[Abg. No, no!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Not again! You always call in here, but you have no idea at all. [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] You have to look at this: The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has worked really well, with all the political groups, but unfortunately you, probably on the instructions of the Secretariats of the Party, have now stopped working. Now, for example, to say – and we will hear that again tomorrow –: If there was already a reform of the committee of inquiry, who always owes it not yet, then there would not be the problems!, is something I must say: It may be, but why do you in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure prevent us from finally bringing the Committee of Inquiry on a good, healthy basis? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Take the two requests as a reminder today and consider whether we should not start working in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure again! “Don’t stop and let’s do it,” Mr Pendl!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32471	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32493	Mr President. High house! The 2009 Wehrrechtsverwicklungsgesetz has provided for a strengthening of the German Federal Committee on Complaints. The Committee for the Rules of Procedure has now formulated it in such a way as to give the Committee chairman or the Committee the opportunity to enter into a dialogue with the Presidents of the Commission. That is simply to say, in the future the report will be represented by the presidents in the Committee. As a committee, we can ask the Presidents to be consulted, vice versa, they have the right to participate in the committee meetings by vote. With voice, that is, in the oral report. I am already very excited about the next reports that will gain in life. We will be able to deal better with the problems of the soldiers and better understand them. I am grateful here for the unanimity in the decision to accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32520	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32541	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The new Rules of Procedure will help to make EU debates more interesting, especially because they will be more up-to-date. This is important because interest in EU issues is increasing slowly, but yet. The population has high expectations, especially as regards European solutions to the fight against crime, but also as regards environmental or energy policy, economic policy, education and research, and it wants to be fully informed. With this innovation, we will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32569	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 492 of the supplements. This is the draft law, which essentially includes adaptations to constitutional amendments of the Rules of Procedure. The present draft law can only be adopted in the presence of at least half of the members by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast. That is why I should first of all like to note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I would ask those Members who give their approval to this draft to give an appropriate sign. This draft was adopted unanimously at second reading. In accordance with Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of this draft may take place at the earliest 24 hours after the conclusion of the second reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 493 of the supplements. This is the draft that redefines the treatment of EU issues in the National Council. The draft should also be adopted by a majority of two thirds of the votes cast only on the presence of at least half of the members. I therefore note the necessary presence of the constitutional number of Members. I would ask those Members who give their consent to this draft law to give a sign on this point. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in second reading. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Here too, the third reading of this draft may take place at the earliest 24 hours after completion of the second reading. [[23:37:16]] 53. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Judith Schwentner, colleagues and colleagues concerning a law with which the Criminal Code BGBl. No. 60/1974, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 98/2009, amended (784/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32651	We're now coming to 53. Agenda item. The word is reported as the first woman Mag. Schwentner. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32675	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Two things I would like to put forward my proposal. One is that there is a time-limit solution in Austria. That means that it is the right of every woman to perform an abortion, and to do so free of punishment. The second is that it must also be the right of every woman to carry out it unhindered. In addition, the fact that no woman is easy to take such a step to decide on abortion is that no woman does so easily. That is, if a woman decides to take this serious step, then we have to accept it. That also means that we must allow her to take this step unhindered. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Worm.]] Therefore, it is all the worse that before abortion clinics – you know it at the Mariahilfer Belt, you know it in front of the clinic on the meat market – it is constantly coming to the harassment and harassment of women on the way to the clinic, on the way to an investigation or perhaps even to the step of abortion. They are disabled, they are told, they are offended. They are given brochures, small foets and other things that are extremely insecure and psychologically pressured by women. This is an unreasonable condition that has to be prevented! It can only be prevented by the appropriate establishment of protection zones, such as those in France and other countries. That is to say, it is a zone that protects a woman and, above all, the staff of the clinics, because it is unreasonable to go to a clinic every day as a clinic staff, where people are insulted and put under pressure and cannot be prevented from coming to work. That is, the establishment of protection zones prevents this. It would be important to do this throughout the state and not only in the federal states, as it has been freed so far, because that is simply something that must finally be regulated throughout the country. I would therefore ask you to support our request to end this state of affairs in the spirit of the women concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32721	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32742	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schwentner, I agree with you in your explanatory statement. Of course, it is true that in Austria we are allowed to commit abortion without penalty within three months by means of the time-limit. That is good and right for those women who have decided to do so. There is a need to prevent massive pressure from being exerted on women. Where and how we are going, this is the big question, and here we still have to deal with it – that is the first reading – whether the security police law is enshrined in protection zones, whether we implement corresponding regulations in the criminal code, or whether we are thinking of changing something in the hospital law. There are different possibilities and different methods of operation. Mr Widmann has already looked at something critical and strict, because of course the fundamental right of assembly must also be taken into account. But in the consideration of the various fundamental rights, namely the fundamental right of physical integrity in relation to the fundamental right of assembly freedom, I believe the fundamental right to physical integrity is still more difficult. We have other countries, for example, where we already have them. France has already been mentioned, we can add the USA. There are also Australia as an example, and I believe that in Spain solutions have also been found. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We are at work that we look at where it is best to guarantee that women are not psychoterrorised: whether that is in the criminal code, whether it is in the security police law, whether it is an additional arrangement for stalking. We need to look at this carefully so that we can also regulate it in a constitutional manner and in a clean manner.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32785	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32807	Mr President. High house! Maybe immediately sent: Mrs Schwentner, we are, of course, against the fact that psychoterrorism is being exercised and that pressure is being exerted. But what you are presenting here – if we are already talking about good parliamentaryism today – is at least bad parliamentaryism. This is the classic case of an event law! What you're doing here is you say: Only if inappropriate pressure is exerted in a woman of a moral, psychological or physical nature, who makes a abortion, will that become punishable. If anyone else exerts such moral, psychological or other pressure – including inappropriate ones – you do not think it is necessary to punish. This distinction, this differentiation you need to clarify once. [[Calls to the Greens.]] There are legal provisions, there are also criminal provisions, such as the need, which does not depend on why someone does this and against whom he does something. That is why we are very skeptical of this proposal. I would even go so far as to make the attempt to say what the Greens would say if such a pressure as you describe him – that someone is persistently and strongly addressed that one tries to hand over items – for example, by militant animal protectors. Do you still find it punishable? Or is it for you then suddenly in order and punishment-free? [[Calls to the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You have to know this too: The Greens are exactly the party that actually wants to free even criminal organizations that want to change § 278a. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Even where property offences are committed, property damage, fire legends, this is to be punished because this is obviously a good purpose. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Do not apply...!]] On the other hand, we speak out, so we cannot imagine such a law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32861	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32883	Mr President. High house! In the last ten years: 13 000 unborn children were protected from these clinics by their use and came into the world! These are facts, so you need to look at what you want to do here. I think that there is an administrative penalty for aggressive beggars – a week of imprisonment if you cannot impose a fine – but here, in this case, the criminal court has to come right here, with a penalty threat up to six months! Here you can see the weighting as you do. In their explanatory statement, you write: “This inadequable stress”, that is, the mob you are locating, “ has a negative impact on the chances of healing.” What chances of healing? Abortion of pregnancy is a disease? Or what do you mean by what's happening here? And then we're going to go on: ‘Because of this provision, militant abortion opponents are expected to have consequences for their actions.’ “Militant abortion opponents” – what happens to the militant “animal protectors” and to the militant “demonstants”, who step with feet the congregation’s right, which has been tailored here, when it comes to assemblies more dissident, if they also want to hinder them aggressively from entering meeting venues? – All of this is completely all right in their world. [[Call the Greens: They'll all be locked in!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is, of course, a clear rejection from our side! If you here think that is trying to prevent someone from entering: This has been a criminal offence so far, you don't need it. Now you're actually coming to the technical formulation of your proposal for a law: “Who exercises inappropriate pressure”, in a “body-like way” – what is appropriate physical pressure, can you explain it to me? Where does that start, where does it stop? Where did you get your laws? “Whoever... tries to “deliver” to them: When I am addressed by a NGO in the future, somewhere in Sweden, that I declare any accession or anything else to anything, and they are putting themselves in the way or similar, are they going to go to prison from your point of view? Work on these things once, and protect life rather than make life difficult for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32922	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e32944	Mr President. High house! What we have to keep from the green request is, I believe, clear to everyone. But, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, have you listened exactly to what Mr Wurm has reported here? This request is aimed at none other than the Lifeguards! Lifeguards who try nothing but by means of civil means which are not now caught by criminal law, not by § 81 para. 1 Security Police Act, I know the procedures, the city of Vienna is trying this right now... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] You're gonna drive in! These people don't do anything forbidden, and you don't like it. Neither with it, nor with the stalking paragraph you catch the people, because nuns praying against rosary can not even proceed with the stalking paragraph. [[Abg. May. Worm: nuns? Were the nuns?]] Yes, yes, of course! I know how sisters were massively threatened by the staff of an abortion clinic in Vienna. One of these lifeguards has even been injured, because I know the case in detail. The prosecutor's office, your Minister of Justice, has seen no reason to take action against the perpetrator. The police said: You're to blame yourself, what do you think they're going to do?- Oh, my God! [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what I want to tell you is the following: Abuse is still a criminal offence, which is not prosecuted only under certain circumstances. But the illegality of the act is still contained in the StGB, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Right, that's it!]] And here it is required to do the opposite: Those who are opposed to putting a murder offence are now to be criminalized, and those who commit the murder offense are to be further protected from those who protest against it! Ladies and gentlemen, this is the pervert to the square! Not only that the greens prefer to protect animals and even justify any burglary there – that is the value of the greens, that is known. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] But Your coalition partner has been out here, Mrs. Wurm has been out there – ladies and gentlemen, this is something more fundamental! This is about the right of life... [[Abg. Head: Ewald, wrong address!]] [[Further calls.]] No, I'm not expecting anything. I'm just warning you about the speeches here. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We are not a united party!]] You didn't notice. Some have, I think, even applauded when colleague Wurm spoke, yes, Mr Steindl? [[Abg. Head: Have you heard colleagues from Donnerbauer or not?]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You obviously did not understand! This is about criminalizing those who are fighting a murder offence, ladies and gentlemen, instead of taking action against those who commit the murder offense! There's the rabbit in the pepper. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] That means, here's the return to value, and there are some people who still praise it. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you: We will stand firm against the complete circulation of values! This will not become as clear as in the question of abortion. This is nowhere as clear as in the militant way in which one proceeds against lifeguards. Otherwise, every demonstration, every protest, every Audimax occupation is justified, that's all justified, but at the moment when harmless believers stand in front of an institute on the meat market in which mass children are killed, in front of an institute that goes back to a Nazi aunt – it can't be emphasized often enough: The founder of this institute has been an old Nazi aunt, who has composed consecration poems and praise poems and love poems to Schicklgruber – to be fought against these life protectors. This ideology is still to be protected! This is not in question for us! On the other hand, we will be on the side of the lifeguards.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e33075	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 784/A to the Committee on Justice. [[23:50:53]] 54. Point First reading: Request by Members Josef Bucher, colleagues and colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act is amended, and a Federal Act amending the Court of Auditors Act 1948 (767/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e33118	We're coming to 54. Agenda item. The first speaker is Mr Bucher. 2 minutes is the remaining speaking time of your group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e33142	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This request by us concerns an old issue which we have been discussing for many years, namely the extension of the audit competences of the Court of Auditors to the municipalities. Many discussions have already been held, and above all a joint motion for a resolution has been drawn up to extend these audit competences of the Court of Auditors. Everyone who knows and appreciates the Court of Auditors knows how careful and good the Court of Auditors' audits and deliberations are. Just one percent of Austrian municipalities are actually audited by the Court of Auditors, i.e. 24 out of about 2 400. In view of the budgetary situation of many municipalities in Austria, it is advisable to have the municipal finances examined carefully by the Court of Auditors. With this request, we are taking a step forward to the coalition parties by handing over the responsibility to the national governments as well. If they make a reasoned request, the Court of Auditors should act and get an understanding of the budgets, the budgets of the municipalities. This would be a useful step towards greater transparency, greater comparability. In this way, we would probably be able to see through the much sung and debated transparency account, because we will also need the control of municipal finances, because many transfers are given over the communities.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e33178	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e33200	Mr President. High house! We will soon be discussing the extension of the Court of Auditors' audit competences. This is a subject that is already working intensively and for a longer time. For the vote: For us, an important issue is not only, as is the case in the BZÖ proposal, to be reduced to the number of inhabitants, but we want to use different criteria. One should see that the communities also have a role to play in what is being examined. Mr Klubobmann Bucher, if your request states that you are not so confident that the government parties or all the political groups here in the High House will work effectively and efficiently to expand the audit competences of the Court of Auditors, I must disappoint you in this regard: By March of next year there will be arrangements for this, so that we can then devote ourselves to expanding the audit skills of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors can also examine them accordingly in order to improve the use of financial resources in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e33230	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e33251	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is a realignment of the community's examination of the conduct. Overall, the requirements and tasks have changed, and for this reason we need an optimization in the future, we need standards and key figures and we need an efficiency improvement. That means quite clearly: No double tests! The municipal association and the town council have already joined the Court of Auditors, and it is now about getting an efficient and coordinated system of testing. It is about who can best examine, but also about consulting in advance, because basically it is also about not always having to reveal faults and shortcomings in the post-war period, but that one can also have a preventive effect in advance. Our position is clear: The question is that one can also examine the outsourced establishments, it is about reducing the expected population of 20,000 and it is about the interaction of control facilities. The Municipal Federation, the President of the Municipal Government, Dr. Häupl, has written to the municipal government – I quote –: In all circumstances, an Austrian test concept must be required when extending the Federal Accounting Court's audit competences. - Quote. We are committed to coordinating the tasks between local authorities, national courts and the Federal Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e33294	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e33315	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal corresponds exactly to an old demand from the FPÖ, and we will therefore support it. We, too, believe that it would be useful if there were to be a uniform audit competence across the country for communities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, because we believe that there is still a potential for savings there and it is therefore a good thing to give this competence to the Court of Auditors. We will therefore, in any case, support it if there are further initiatives in the legislative period, and are very much behind that.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e33339	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. Green speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e33361	Mr President. A few comments: First: A good proposal! It is obvious to Sepp Bucher that he is always looking for compromises. There are, however, better proposals. The best are those who give complete audit competence to all the courts of account, to the state and to the so-called Federal Court of Auditors, and also the right to act on their own initiative, because that would result in him reaching exactly that few promille – you have to say – or a few percent of the communities where there is a real need for reflection. We can certainly trust the Court of Auditors that it would act in this way according to certain criteria. In the house alone, we have not yet agreed on that. I also recognise that, after a long time, the ÖVP had its attitude that it was not supposed to expand the competences at all, at least so far has come to say: Okay, let's talk about it, there's a principle agreement, let's look at where and how that makes sense! [[Abg. Head: We have even presented a model for this!]] This does not logically even exclude the proposal I have just made, but of course there is also another wisdom in what you say. We need to be careful not all of them constantly and at the same time checking. No one will want to be more reasonable, and the billing courts will vote. But what is of course a problem is that we have supervisory systems in different federal states that do not deserve this name. You're right if you say we can't get all of them driving at the same time. I'll tell you: These supervisions, too, belong to reformed! However, as long as this has not happened, we will naturally try to have both the communities examined and the supervision. With this, I come – so much time is still – to the rather unmistakable examples in the Styria. I'm surprised I haven't liked it yet. On the one hand, we have a number of communities that have no money at all, but still throw it out of the window, on a credit basis. These are usually municipalities with red majority. And we have communities with black majority who have brought together money but have speculated it. In any case, however, the supervision was there and has watched. In any case! That means, unfortunately, there is more testing needs than less. That the whole system needs a reform, we will meet, and I hope that we will meet there.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e33406	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 767/A to the Constitutional Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:59:53]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00049_d8e33443	At today's meeting, the self-employed received applications 904/A(E) to 908/A(E) and questions 3871/J to 3915/J. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Friday, 11. ==References====External links== The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
